(4) Nonprofit-owned nonresidential buildings and improvements not eligible under § 1003.201(c);
(5) Manufactured housing when such housing constitutes part of the community's permanent housing stock.
(b)
Types of assistance.
ICDBG funds may be used to finance the following
types of rehabilitation or reconstruction activities, and related costs, either singly, or in combination, through the use of grants, loans, loan guarantees, interest supplements, or other means for buildings and improvements described in paragraph (a) of this section, except that rehabilitation of commercial or industrial buildings is limited as described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(1) Assistance to private individuals and entities, including profit making and nonprofit organizations, to acquire for the purpose of rehabilitation, and to rehabilitate properties, for use or resale for residential purposes;
(2) Labor, materials, and other costs of rehabilitation of properties, including repair directed toward an accumulation of deferred maintenance, replacement of principal fixtures and components of existing structures, installation of security devices, including smoke detectors and dead bolt locks, and renovation through alterations, additions to, or enhancement of existing structures, which may be undertaken singly, or in combination;
(3) Loans for refinancing existing indebtedness secured by a property being rehabilitated with ICDBG funds if such financing is determined by the grantee to be necessary or appropriate to achieve the grantee's community development objectives;
(4) Improvements to increase the efficient use of energy in structures through such means as installation of storm windows and doors, siding, wall and attic insulation, and conversion, modification, or replacement of heating and cooling equipment, including the use of solar energy equipment;
(5) Improvements to increase the efficient use of water through such means as water saving faucets and shower heads and repair of water leaks;
(6) Connection of residential structures to water distribution lines or local sewer collection lines;
(7) For rehabilitation carried out with ICDBG funds, costs of:
(i) Initial homeowner warranty premiums;
(ii) Hazard insurance premiums, except where assistance is provided in the form of a grant; and
(iii) Flood insurance premiums for properties covered by the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, pursuant to 24 CFR 58.6(a).
(iv) Lead-based paint activities in part 35 of this title.
(8) Costs of acquiring tools to be lent to owners, tenants, and others who will use such tools to carry out rehabilitation;
(9) Rehabilitation services, such as rehabilitation counseling, energy auditing, preparation of work specifications, loan processing, inspections, and other services related to assisting owners, tenants, contractors, and other entities, participating or seeking to participate in rehabilitation activities authorized under this section;
(10) Improvements designed to remove material and architectural barriers that restrict the mobility and accessibility of elderly or severely disabled persons to buildings and improvements eligible for assistance under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Code enforcement.
Code enforcement in deteriorating or deteriorated areas where such enforcement together with public or private improvements, rehabilitation, or services to be provided, may be expected to arrest the decline of the area.
(d)
Historic preservation.
ICDBG funds may be used for the rehabilitation, preservation or restoration of historic properties, whether publicly or privately owned. Historic properties are those sites or structures that are either listed in or eligible to be listed in the National Register of Historic Places, listed in a State or local inventory of historic places, or designated as a State or local landmark or historic district by appropriate law or ordinance. Historic preservation, however, is not authorized for buildings for the general conduct of government.
(e)
Renovation of closed buildings.
ICDBG funds may be used to renovate closed buildings, such as closed school buildings, for use as an eligible public facility or to rehabilitate such buildings for housing.
[61 FR 40090, July 31, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 50230, Sept. 15, 1999]
§ 1003.203
Special economic development activities.
A grantee may use ICDBG funds for special economic development activities in addition to other activities authorized in this subpart which may be carried out as part of an economic development project. Special activities authorized under this section do not include assistance for the construction of new housing. Special economic development activities include:
(a) The acquisition, construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation or installation of commercial or industrial buildings, structures, and other real property equipment and improvements, including railroad spurs or similar extensions. Such activities may be carried out by the grantee or public or private nonprofit subrecipients.
(b) The provision of assistance to a private for-profit business, including, but not limited to, grants, loans, loan guarantees, interest supplements, technical assistance, and other forms of support, for any activity where the assistance is necessary or appropriate to carry out an economic development project, excluding those described as ineligible in § 1003.207(a). In order to ensure that any such assistance does not unduly enrich the for-profit business, the grantee shall conduct an analysis to determine that the amount of any financial assistance to be provided is not excessive, taking into account the actual needs of the business in making the project financially feasible and the extent of public benefit expected to be derived from the economic development project. The grantee shall document the analysis as well as any factors it considered in making its determination that the assistance is necessary or appropriate to carry out the project. The requirement for making such a determination applies whether the business is to receive assistance from the grantee or through a subrecipient.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0191)
§ 1003.204
Special activities by Community-Based Development Organizations (CBDOs).
(a)
Eligible activities.
The grantee may provide ICDBG funds as grants or loans to any CBDO qualified under this section to carry out a neighborhood revitalization, community economic development, or energy conservation project. The funded project activities may include those listed as eligible under this subpart, and, except as described in paragraph (b) of this section, activities not otherwise listed as eligible under this subpart. For purposes of qualifying as a project under paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3) of this section, the funded activity or activities may be considered either alone or in concert with other project activities either being carried out or for which funding has been committed. For purposes of this section:
(1) Neighborhood revitalization project includes activities of sufficient size and scope to have an impact on the decline of a geographic location within the jurisdiction of a grantee (but not the entire jurisdiction) designated in comprehensive plans, ordinances, or other local documents as a neighborhood, village, or similar geographical designation; or the entire jurisdiction of a grantee which is under 25,000 population;
(2) Community economic development project includes activities that increase economic opportunity, principally for persons of low- and moderate-income, or that stimulate or retain businesses or permanent jobs, including projects that include one or more such activities that are clearly needed to address a lack of affordable housing accessible to existing or planned jobs;
(3) Energy conservation project includes activities that address energy conservation, principally for the benefit of the residents of the grantee's jurisdiction; and
(4) To carry out a project means that the CBDO undertakes the funded activities directly or through contract with an entity other than the grantee, or through the provision of financial assistance for activities in which it retains a direct and controlling involvement and responsibilities.
(b)
Ineligible activities.
Notwithstanding that CBDOs may carry out activities that are not otherwise eligible under this subpart, this section does not authorize:
(1) Carrying out an activity described as ineligible in § 1003.207(a);
(2) Carrying out public services that do not meet the requirements of § 1003.201(e), except services carried out under this section that are specifically designed to increase economic opportunities through job training and placement and other employment support services, including, but not limited to, peer support programs, counseling, child care, transportation, and other similar services;
(3) Carrying out an activity that would otherwise be eligible under § 1003.205 or § 1003.206, but that would result in the grantee's exceeding the spending limitation in § 1003.206.
(c)
Eligible CBDOs.
(1) A CBDO qualifying under this section is an organization which has the following characteristics:
(i) Is an association or corporation organized under State or local law to engage in community development activities (which may include housing and economic development activities) primarily within an identified geographic area of operation within the jurisdiction of the grantee; and
(ii) Has as its primary purpose the improvement of the physical, economic or social environment of its geographic area of operation by addressing one or more critical problems of the area, with particular attention to the needs of persons of low and moderate income; and
(iii) May be either non-profit or for-profit, provided any monetary profits to its shareholders or members must be only incidental to its operations; and
(iv) Maintains at least 51 percent of its governing body's membership for low- and moderate-income residents of its geographic area of operation, owners or senior officers of private establishments and other institutions located in and serving its geographic area of operation, or representatives of low- and moderate-income neighborhood organizations located in its geographic area of operation; and
(v) Is not an agency or instrumentality of the grantee and does not permit more than one-third of the membership of its governing body to be appointed by, or to consist of, elected or other public officials or employees or officials of an ineligible entity (even though such persons may be otherwise qualified under paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section); and
(vi) Except as otherwise authorized in paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section, requires the members of its governing body to be nominated and approved by the general membership of the organization, or by its permanent governing body; and
(vii) Is not subject to requirements under which its assets revert to the grantee upon dissolution; and
(viii) Is free to contract for goods and services from vendors of its own choosing.
(2) A CBDO that does not meet the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section may also qualify as an eligible entity under this section if it meets one of the following requirements:
(i) Is an entity organized pursuant to section 301(d) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 681(d)), including those which are profit making; or
(ii) Is an SBA-approved Section 501 State Development Company or Section 502 Local Development Company, or an SBA Certified Section 503 Company under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, as amended; or
(iii) Is a Community Housing Development Organization (CHDO) under 24 CFR 92.2, designated as a CHDO by the HOME Investment Partnerships program participating jurisdiction, with a geographic area of operation of no more than one neighborhood, and has received HOME funds under 24 CFR 92.300 or is expected to receive HOME funds as described in and documented in accordance with 24 CFR 92.300(e); or
(iv) Is a tribal-based nonprofit organization. Such organizations are associations or corporations duly organized to promote and undertake community development activities on a not-for-profit basis within an identified service area.
(3) A CBDO that does not qualify under paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section may also be determined to qualify as an eligible entity under this section if the grantee demonstrates to the satisfaction of HUD, through the provision of information regarding the organization's charter and by-laws,
that the organization is sufficiently similar in purpose, function, and scope to those entities qualifying under paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section.
§ 1003.205
Eligible planning, urban environmental design and policy-planning-management-capacity building activities.
(a) Planning activities which consist of all costs of data gathering, studies, analysis, and preparation of plans and the identification of actions that will implement such plans, including, but not limited to comprehensive plans, community development plans and functional plans in areas such as housing and economic development. In addition, other plans and studies such as capital improvements programs, individual project plans, general environmental studies, and strategies and action programs to implement plans, including the development of codes and ordinances are also eligible activities. With respect to the costs of individual project plans, engineering and design costs related to a specific activity are eligible as part of the cost of such activity under §§ 1003.201 through 1003.204 and are not considered planning costs. Also, costs necessary to comply with the requirements of 24 CFR part 58, including project specific environmental assessments and clearances for activities eligible under this part are eligible as part of the cost of such activities under §§ 1003.201 through 1003.204.
(b) Policy—planning—management—capacity building activities including those which will enable the grantee to determine its needs, set long term goals and short term objectives, devise programs to meet these goals and objectives, evaluate the progress being made in accomplishing the goals and objectives. In addition, actions necessary to carry out management, coordination and monitoring of activities necessary for effective planning implementation are eligible planning activities, however the costs necessary to implement the plans are not.
§ 1003.206
Program administration costs.
ICDBG funds may be used for the payment of reasonable administrative costs and carrying charges related to the planning and execution of community development activities assisted in whole or in part with funds provided under this part. No more than 20 percent of the sum of any grant plus program income received shall be expended for activities described in this section and in § 1003.205—Eligible planning, urban environmental design and policy-planning-management capacity building activities. This does not include staff and overhead costs directly related to carrying out activities eligible under §§ 1003.201 through 1003.204, since those costs are eligible as part of such activities. In addition, technical assistance costs associated with developing the capacity to undertake a specific funded activity are also not considered program administration costs. These costs must not, however, exceed 10% of the total grant award.
(a)
General management, oversight and coordination.
Reasonable costs of overall program management, coordination, monitoring, and evaluation. Such costs include, but are not necessarily limited to, necessary expenditures for the following:
(1) Salaries, wages, and related costs of the grantee's staff, the staff of local public agencies, or other staff engaged in program administration. In charging costs to this category the grantee may either include the entire salary, wages, and related costs allocable to the program of each person whose primary responsibilities with regard to the program involve program administration assignments, or the pro rata share of the salary, wages, and related costs of each person whose job includes any program administration assignments. The grantee may use only one of these methods during the grant period. Program administration includes the following types of assignments:
(i) Providing tribal officials and citizens with information about the program;
(ii) Preparing program budgets and schedules, and amendments thereto;
(iii) Developing systems for assuring compliance with program requirements;
(iv) Developing interagency agreements and agreements with subrecipients and contractors to carry out program activities;
(v) Monitoring program activities for progress and compliance with program requirements;
(vi) Preparing reports and other documents related to the program for submission to HUD;
(vii) Coordinating the resolution of audit and monitoring findings;
(viii) Evaluating program results against stated objectives; and
(ix) Managing or supervising persons whose primary responsibilities with regard to the program include such assignments as those described in paragraph (a)(1) (i) through (viii) of this section.
(2) Travel costs incurred for official business in carrying out the program;
(3) Administrative services performed under third party contracts or agreements, including such services as general legal services, accounting services, and audit services; and
(4) Other costs for goods and services required for administration of the program, including such goods and services as rental or purchase of equipment, furnishings, or other personal property (or the payment of depreciation for such items in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E , insurance, utilities, office supplies, and rental and maintenance (but not purchase) of office space.)
(b)
Public information.
The provisions of information and other resources to residents and citizen organizations participating in the planning, implementation, or assessment of activities being assisted with ICDBG funds.
(c)
Indirect costs.
Indirect costs may be charged to the ICDBG program under a cost allocation plan prepared in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E.
(d)
Submission of applications for Federal programs.
Preparation of documents required for submission to HUD to receive funds under the ICDBG program. In addition, ICDBG funds may be used to prepare applications for other Federal programs where the grantee determines that such activities are necessary or appropriate to achieve its community development objectives.
[62 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 75944, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 1003.207
Ineligible activities.
The general rule is that any activity that is not authorized under the provisions of §§ 1003.201 through 1003.206 is ineligible to be assisted with ICDBG funds. This section identifies specific activities that are ineligible and provides guidance in determining the eligibility of other activities frequently associated with housing and community development.
(a) The following activities may not be assisted with ICDBG funds:
(1) Buildings or portions thereof used for the general conduct of government as defined at § 1003.4 cannot be assisted with ICDBG funds. This does not include, however, the removal of architectural barriers under § 1003.201(c) involving any such building. Also, where acquisition of real property includes an existing improvement which is to be used in the provision of a building for the general conduct of government, the portion of the acquisition cost attributable to the land is eligible, provided such acquisition meets the primary objective described in § 1003.208.
(2)
General government expenses.
Except as otherwise specifically authorized in this subpart or under 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, expenses required to carry out the regular responsibilities of the grantee are not eligible for assistance under this part.
(3)
Political activities.
ICDBG funds shall not be used to finance the use of facilities or equipment for political purposes or to engage in other partisan political activities, such as candidate forums, voter transportation, or voter registration. However, a facility originally assisted with ICDBG funds may be used on an incidental basis to hold political meetings, candidate forums, or voter registration campaigns, provided that all parties and organizations have access to the facility on an equal basis, and are assessed equal rent or use charges, if any.
(b) The following activities may not be assisted with ICDBG funds unless authorized under provisions of § 1003.203 or as otherwise specifically noted herein, or when carried out by a CBDO under the provisions of § 1003.204.
(1)
Purchase of equipment.
The purchase of equipment with ICDBG funds is generally ineligible.
(i)
Construction equipment.
The purchase of construction equipment is ineligible, but compensation for the use of such equipment through leasing or depreciation pursuant to 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, for an otherwise eligible activity is an eligible use of ICDBG funds.
(ii)
Furnishings and personal property.
The purchase of equipment, fixtures, motor vehicles, furnishings, or other personal property not an integral structural fixture is generally ineligible. Exceptions to this general prohibition are set forth in § 1003.201(o).
(2)
Operating and maintenance expenses.
The general rule is that any expense associated with repairing, operating or maintaining public facilities, improvements and services is ineligible. Specific exceptions to this general rule are operating and maintenance expenses associated with public service activities, interim assistance, and office space for program staff employed in carrying out the ICDBG program. For example, the use of ICDBG funds to pay the allocable costs of operating and maintaining a facility used in providing a public service would be eligible under § 1003.201(e), even if no other costs of providing such a service are assisted with such funds. Examples of ineligible operating and maintenance expenses are:
(i) Maintenance and repair of streets, parks, playgrounds, water and sewer facilities, neighborhood facilities, senior centers, centers for persons with a disability, parking and similar public facilities; and
(ii) Payment of salaries for staff, utility costs and similar expenses necessary for the operation of public works and facilities.
(3)
New housing construction.
ICDBG funds may not be used for the construction of new permanent residential structures or for any program to subsidize or assist such new construction, except:
(i) As provided under the last resort housing provisions set forth in 24 CFR part 42; or
(ii) When carried out by a CBDO pursuant to § 1003.204(a);
(4)
Income payments.
The general rule is that ICDBG funds may not be used for income payments. For purposes of the ICDBG program, income payments means a series of subsistence-type grant payments made to an individual or family for items such as food, clothing, housing (rent or mortgage) or utilities, but excludes emergency payments made over a period of up to three months to the provider of such items or services on behalf of an individual or family.
[62 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 75944, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 1003.208
Criteria for compliance with the primary objective.
The Act establishes as its primary objective the development of viable communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment and expanding economic opportunities, principally for persons of low and moderate income. Consistent with this objective, not less than 70 percent of the expenditures of each single purpose grant shall be for activities which meet the criteria set forth in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this section. Activities meeting these criteria as applicable will be considered to benefit low and moderate income persons unless there is substantial evidence to the contrary. In assessing any such evidence, the full range of direct effects of the assisted activity will be considered. (The grantee shall appropriately ensure that activities that meet these criteria do not benefit moderate income persons to the exclusion of low income persons.)
(a)
Area benefit activities.
(1) An activity, the benefits of which are available to all the residents in a particular area, where at least 51 percent of the residents are low and moderate income persons. Such an area need not be coterminous with census tracts or other officially recognized boundaries but must be the entire area served by the activity. An activity that serves an area that is not primarily residential in character shall not qualify under this criterion.
(2) For purposes of determining qualification under this criterion, activities of the same type that serve different areas will be considered separately on the basis of their individual service area.
(3) In determining whether there is a sufficiently large percentage of low and moderate income persons residing in the area served by an activity to qualify under paragraph (a) (1) or (2) of this section, the most recently available decennial census information shall be used to the fullest extent feasible, together with the Section 8 income limits that would have applied at the time the income information was collected by the Census Bureau. Grantees that believe that the census data does not reflect current relative income levels in an area, or where census boundaries do not coincide sufficiently well with the service area of an activity, may conduct (or have conducted) a current survey of the residents of the area to determine the percent of such persons that are low and moderate income. HUD will accept information obtained through such surveys, to be used in lieu of the decennial census data, where it determines that the survey was conducted in such a manner that the results meet standards of statistical reliability that are comparable to that of the decennial census data for areas of similar size. Where there is substantial evidence that provides a clear basis to believe that the use of the decennial census data would substantially overstate the proportion of persons residing there that are low and moderate income, HUD may require that the grantee rebut such evidence in order to demonstrate compliance with section 105(c)(2) of the Act.
(b)
Limited clientele activities.
(1) An activity which benefits a limited clientele, at least 51 percent of whom are low or moderate income persons. (The following kinds of activities may not qualify under paragraph (b) of this section: Activities, the benefits of which are available to all the residents of an area; activities involving the acquisition, construction or rehabilitation of property for housing; or activities where the benefit to low and moderate income persons to be considered is the creation or retention of jobs except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.) To qualify under paragraph (b) of this section, the activity must meet one of the following tests:
(i) Benefit a clientele who are generally presumed to be principally low and moderate income persons. Activities that exclusively serve a group of persons in any one of the following categories may be presumed to benefit persons, 51 percent of whom are low-and moderate-income: abused children, battered spouses, elderly persons, adults meeting the Bureau of the Census' current Population Reports definition of “severely disabled”, homeless persons, illiterate adults, persons living with AIDS, and migrant workers; or
(ii) Require information on family size and income so that it is evident that at least 51 percent of the clientele are persons whose family income does not exceed the low and moderate income limit; or
(iii) Have income eligibility requirements which limit the activity exclusively to low and moderate income persons; or
(iv) Be of such nature and be in such location that it may be concluded that the activity's clientele will primarily be low and moderate income persons.
(2) An activity that serves to remove material or architectural barriers to the mobility or accessibility of elderly persons or adults meeting the Bureau of the Census' Current Population Reports definition of “severely disabled” will be presumed to qualify under this criterion if it is restricted, to the extent practicable, to the removal of such barriers by assisting:
(i) The reconstruction of a public facility or improvement, or portion thereof, that does not qualify under § 1003.208(a); or
(ii) The rehabilitation of a privately-owned nonresidential building or improvement that does not qualify under § 1003.208 (a) or (d); or
(iii) The rehabilitation of the common areas of a residential structure that contains more than one dwelling unit.
(3) A microenterprise assistance activity carried out in accordance with the provisions of § 1003.201(l) with respect to those owners of microenterprises and persons developing microenterprises assisted under the activity during the grant period who are low and moderate income persons. For purposes of this paragraph, persons determined to be low and moderate income
may be presumed to continue to qualify for up to a three year period.
(4) An activity designed to provide job training and placement and/or other employment support services, including but not limited to, peer support programs, counseling, child care, transportation, and other similar services, in which the percentage of low and moderate income persons assisted is less than 51 percent may qualify under this paragraph in the following limited circumstance:
(i) In such cases where such training or provision of supportive services assists business(es), the only use of ICDBG assistance for the project is to provide the job training and/or supportive services; and
(ii) The proportion of the total cost of the project borne by ICDBG funds is no greater than the proportion of the total number of persons assisted who are low or moderate income.
(c)
Housing activities.
An eligible activity carried out for the purpose of providing or improving permanent residential structures which, upon completion, will be occupied by low and moderate income households. This would include, but not necessarily be limited to, the acquisition or rehabilitation of property, conversion of non-residential structures, and new housing construction. Funds expended for activities which qualify under the provisions of this paragraph shall be counted as benefiting low and moderate income persons but shall be limited to an amount determined by multiplying the total cost (including ICDBG and non-ICDBG costs) of the acquisition, construction or rehabilitation by the percent of units in such housing to be occupied by low and moderate income persons. If the structure assisted contains two dwelling units, at least one must be occupied by low and moderate income households, and if the structure contains more than two dwelling units, at least 51 percent of the units must be so occupied. Where two or more rental buildings being assisted are or will be located on the same or contiguous properties, and the buildings will be under common ownership and management, the grouped buildings may be considered for this purpose as a single structure. For rental housing, occupancy by low and moderate income households must be at affordable rents to qualify under this criterion. The grantee shall adopt and make public its standards for determining “affordable rents” for this purpose. The following shall also qualify under this criterion:
(1) When less than 51 percent of the units in a structure will be occupied by low and moderate income households, ICDBG assistance may be provided in the following limited circumstances:
(i) The assistance is for an eligible activity to reduce the development cost of the new construction of a multifamily, non-elderly rental housing project;
(ii) Not less than 20 percent of the units will be occupied by low and moderate income households at affordable rents; and
(iii) The proportion of the total cost of developing the project to be borne by ICDBG funds is no greater than the proportion of units in the project that will be occupied by low and moderate income households.
(2) When ICDBG funds are used for housing services eligible under § 1003.201(j), such funds shall be considered to benefit low-and moderate-income persons if the housing for which the services are provided is to be occupied by low-and moderate-income households.
(d)
Job creation or retention activities.
An activity designed to create or retain permanent jobs where at least 51 percent of the jobs, computed on a full time equivalent basis, involve the employment of low and moderate persons. For purposes of determining whether a job is held by or made available to a low or moderate income person, the person may be presumed to be a low or moderate income person if: he/she resides within a census tract (or block numbering area) where not less than 70 percent of the residents have incomes at or below 80 percent of the area median; or, if he/she resides in a census tract (or block numbering area) which meets the Federal Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community eligibility criteria; or, if the assisted business is located in and the job under consideration is to be located in such a tract or area. As a general rule, each assisted business shall be considered to be a
separate activity for purposes of determining whether the activity qualifies under this paragraph. However, in certain cases such as where ICDBG funds are used to acquire, develop or improve a real property (e.g., a business incubator or an industrial park) the requirement may be met by measuring jobs in the aggregate for all the businesses which locate on the property, provided such businesses are not otherwise assisted by ICDBG funds. Where ICDBG funds are used to pay for the staff and overhead costs of a CBDO under the provisions of § 1003.204 making loans to businesses from non-ICDBG funds, this requirement may be met by aggregating the jobs created by all of the businesses receiving loans during any one year period. For an activity that creates jobs, the grantee must document that at least 51 percent of the jobs will be held by, or will be available to, low and moderate income persons. For an activity that retains jobs, the grantee must document that the jobs would actually be lost without the ICDBG assistance and that either or both of the following conditions apply with respect to at least 51 percent of the jobs at the time the ICDBG assistance is provided: The job is known to be held by a low or moderate income person; or the job can reasonably be expected to turn over within the following two years and that steps will be taken to ensure that it will be filled by, or made available to, a low or moderate income person upon turnover. Jobs will be considered to be available to low and moderate income persons for these purposes only if:
(1) Special skills that can only be acquired with substantial training or work experience or education beyond high school are not a prerequisite to fill such jobs, or the business agrees to hire unqualified persons and provide training; and
(2) The grantee and the assisted business take actions to ensure that low and moderate income persons receive first consideration for filling such jobs.
(e)
Additional criteria.
(1) Where the assisted activity is acquisition of real property, a preliminary determination of whether the activity addresses the primary objective may be based on the planned use of the property after acquisition. A final determination shall be based on the actual use of the property, excluding any short-term, temporary use.
(2) Where the assisted activity is relocation assistance that the grantee is required to provide, such relocation assistance shall be considered to address the primary objective as addressed by the displacing activity.
(3) In any case where the activity undertaken for the purpose of creating or retaining jobs is a public improvement and the area served is primarily residential, the activity must meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section as well as those of paragraph (d) of this section in order to qualify as benefiting low and moderate income persons.
(4) Expenditures for activities meeting the criteria for benefiting low and moderate income persons shall be used in determining the extent to which the grantee's overall program benefits such persons. In determining the percentage of funds expended for such activities:
(i) Costs of administration and planning, eligible under § 1003.205 and § 1003.206 respectively, will be assumed to benefit low and moderate income persons in the same proportion as the remainder of the ICDBG funds and, accordingly, shall be excluded from the calculation.
(ii) Funds expended for the acquisition, new construction or rehabilitation of property for housing those qualified under § 1003.208(c) shall be counted for this purpose, but shall be limited to an amount determined by multiplying the total cost (including ICDBG and non-ICDBG costs) of the acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation by the percent of units in such housing occupied by low and moderate income persons.
(iii) Funds expended for any other activity which qualifies under § 1003.208 shall be counted for this purpose in their entirety.
§ 1003.209
Prohibition on use of assistance for employment relocation activities.
(a)
Prohibition.
ICDBG funds may not be used to directly assist a business, including a business expansion, in the relocation of a plant, facility, or operation from one Identified Service Area to another Identified Service Area, if the relocation is likely to result in a significant loss of jobs in the Identified Service Area from which the relocation occurs.
(b)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this section:
(1)
Directly assist.
Directly assist means the provision of ICDBG funds for activities pursuant to:
(i) § 1003.203(b); or
(ii) §§ 1003.201(a)-(d), 1003.201(k), 1003.203(a), or § 1003.204 when the grantee, subrecipient, or, in the case of an activity carried out pursuant to § 1003.204, a Community Based Development Organization (CBDO) enters into an agreement with a business to undertake one or more of these activities as a condition of the business relocating a facility, plant, or operation to the grantee's Identified Service Area. Provision of public facilities and indirect assistance that will provide benefit to multiple businesses does not fall under the definition of “directly assist,” unless it includes the provision of infrastructure to aid a specific business that is the subject of an agreement with the specific assisted business.
(2)
Area.
The relevant definition of “area” for a Native American economic development project is the “Identified Service Area” for the eligible applicant, as defined in § 1003.4.
(3)
Operation.
A business operation includes, but is not limited to, any equipment, employment opportunity, production capacity, or product line of the business.
(4)
Significant loss of jobs.
(i) A loss of jobs is significant if the number of jobs to be lost in the Identified Service Area in which the affected business is currently located is equal to or greater than one-tenth of one percent of the total number of persons in the labor force of that area; or, in all cases, a loss of 500 or more jobs. Notwithstanding the aforementioned, a loss of 25 jobs or fewer does not constitute a significant loss of jobs.
(ii) A job is considered to be lost due to the provision of ICDBG assistance if the job is relocated within 3 years of the provision of assistance to the business; or the time period within which jobs are to be created, as specified by the agreement between the business and the recipient, is longer than 3 years.
(c)
Written agreement.
Before directly assisting a business with ICDBG funds, the recipient, subrecipient, or a CBDO (in the case of an activity carried out pursuant to § 1003.204) shall sign a written agreement with the assisted business. The written agreement shall include:
(1)
Statement.
A statement from the assisted business as to whether the assisted activity will result in the relocation of any industrial or commercial plant, facility, or operation from one Identified Service Area to another, and, if so, the number of jobs that will be relocated from each Identified Service Area; and
(2)
Required certification.
If the assistance will not result in a relocation covered by this section, a certification from the assisted business that neither it, nor any of its subsidiaries, has plans to relocate jobs, at the time the agreement is signed, that would result in a significant job loss as defined in this rule.
(d)
Assistance not covered by this section.
This section does not apply to:
(1)
Relocation assistance.
Relocation assistance under § 1003.602(b), (c), or (d);
(2)
Microenterprises.
Assistance to microenterprises as defined by section 102(a)(22) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974; and
(3)
Arms-length transactions.
Assistance to a business that purchases business equipment, inventory, or other physical assets in an arms-length transaction, including the assets of an existing business, provided that the purchase does not result in the relocation of the sellers' business operation (including customer base or list, goodwill, product lines, or trade names) from one Identified Service Area to another Identified Service Area and does not produce a significant loss of jobs in
the Identified Service Area from which the relocation occurs.
[74 FR 1869, Jan. 13, 2009]

# Subpart D—Single Purpose Grant Application and Selection Process
§ 1003.300
Application requirements.
(a)
Application information.
A Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) shall be published in the
Federal Register
not less than 30 days before the deadline for application submission. The NOFA will provide information relating to the date and time for application submission, the form and content requirements of the application, specific information regarding the rating and ranking criteria to be used, and any other information pertinent to the application process.
(b)
Costs incurred by applicant.
Costs incurred by an applicant prior to the submission of the single purpose grant application to HUD will not be recognized by HUD as eligible ICDBG expenses.
(c) HUD will not normally reimburse or recognize costs incurred before HUD approval of the application for funding. However, under unusual circumstances, the Area ONAP may consider and approve written requests to recognize and reimburse costs incurred after submission of the application where failure to do so would impose undue hardship on the applicant. Such written authorization will be made only before the costs are incurred and where the requirements for reimbursement have been met in accordance with 24 CFR 58.22 and with the understanding that HUD has no obligation whatsoever to approve the application or to reimburse the applicant should the application be disapproved.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0191)
§ 1003.301
Selection process.
(a)
Threshold requirement.
An applicant that has an outstanding ICDBG obligation to HUD that is in arrears, or one that has not agreed to a repayment schedule, will be disqualified from the competition.
(b)
Application rating.
NOFAs will define and establish weights for the selection criteria, will specify the maximum points available, and will describe how point awards will be made.
[66 FR 4581, Jan. 17, 2001; 66 FR 8176, Jan. 30, 2001]
§ 1003.302
Project specific threshold requirements.
(a)
Housing rehabilitation projects.
All applicants for housing rehabilitation projects shall adopt rehabilitation standards and rehabilitation policies before submitting an application. The applicant shall assure that it will use project funds to rehabilitate units only when the homeowner's payments are current or the homeowner is current in a repayment agreement that is subject to approval by the Area ONAP. The Area ONAP administrator may grant exceptions to this requirement on a case-by-case basis.
(b)
New housing construction projects.
New housing construction can only be implemented through a nonprofit organization that is eligible under § 1003.204 or is otherwise eligible under § 1003.207(b)(3). All applicants for new housing construction projects shall adopt, by current tribal resolution, construction standards before submitting an application. All applications which include new housing construction projects must document that:
(1) No other housing is available in the immediate reservation area that is suitable for the household(s) to be assisted; and
(2) No other sources can meet the needs of the household(s) to be assisted; and
(3) Rehabilitation of the unit occupied by the household(s) to be assisted is not economically feasible; or
(4) The household(s) to be housed currently is in an overcrowded housing unit (sharing with another household); or
(5) The household(s) to be assisted has no current residence.
(c)
Economic development projects.
All applicants for economic development projects must provide an analysis which shows public benefit commensurate with the ICDBG assistance requested will result from the assisted project. This analysis should also establish that to the extent practicable: reasonable financial support will be
committed from non-Federal sources prior to disbursement of Federal funds; any grant amount provided will not substantially reduce the amount of non-Federal financial support for the activity; not more than a reasonable rate of return on investment is provided to the owner; and, that grant funds used for the project will be disbursed on a pro rata basis with amounts from other sources. In addition, it must be established that the project is financially feasible and that it has a reasonable chance of success.
§ 1003.303
Project rating.
Each project included in an application that meets the threshold requirements shall be competitively rated within each Area ONAP's jurisdiction under the five following rating factors. Additional details regarding the rating factors will be provided in the periodic NOFAs.
(a)
Capacity.
This factor will address the applicant's organizational resources necessary to successfully implement the proposed activities in a timely manner.
(b)
Need/Extent of the problem.
This factor will address the extent to which there is a need for the proposed project to address a documented problem among the intended beneficiaries.
(c)
Soundness of Approach.
This factor will address the quality and cost effectiveness of the proposed project, the commitment to sustain the proposed activities, and the degree to which the proposed project provides other benefits to community members.
(d)
Leveraging of resources.
This factor will address the level of tribal resources and resources from other entities that are used in conjunction with ICDBG funds to support the proposed project. HUD will evaluate the level of non-ICDBG resources based on the percentage of non-ICDBG resources provided relative to project costs.
(e)
Comprehensiveness and coordination.
This factor will address the extent to which the applicant's proposed activities are consistent with the strategic plans or policy goals of the community and further on-going priorities and activities of the community.
[66 FR 4581, Jan. 17, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 8176, Jan. 30, 2001]
§ 1003.304
Funding process.
(a)
Notification.
Area ONAPs will notify applicants of the approval or disapproval of their applications. Grant amounts offered may reflect adjustments made by the Area ONAPs in accordance with § 1003.100(b)(2).
(b)
Grant award.
(1) As soon as the Area ONAP determines that the applicant has complied with any pre-award requirements and absent information which would alter the threshold determinations under § 1003.302, the grant will be awarded. The regulations become part of the grant agreement.
(2) All grants shall be conditioned upon the completion of all environmental obligations and approval of release of funds by HUD in accordance with the requirements of part 58 of this title and, in particular, subpart J of part 58 of this title, except as otherwise provided in part 58 of this title.
(3) HUD may impose other grant conditions where additional actions or approvals are required before the use of funds.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB Control No. 2577-0191)
§ 1003.305
Program amendments.
(a) Grantees shall request prior HUD approval for program amendments which will significantly change the scope, location, objective, or class of beneficiaries of the approved activities, as originally described in the application.
(b) Amendment requests of $100,000 or more shall include all application components required by the NOFA published for the last application cycle; those requests of less than $100,000 do not have to include the components which address the selection criteria.
(c) Approval of an amendment request is subject to the following:
(1) A rating equal to or greater than the lowest rating received by a funded project during the most recent funding competition must be attained by the amended project if the request is for $100,000 or more;
(2) Demonstration by the grantee of the capacity to promptly complete the modified or new activities;
(3) Demonstration by the grantee of compliance with the requirements of § 1003.604 for citizen participation; and
(4) The preparation of an amended or new environmental review in accordance with part 58 of this title, if there is a significant change in the scope or location of approved activities.
(d) Amendments which address imminent threats to health and safety shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with the requirements of subpart E of this part.
(e) If a program amendment fails to be approved and the original project is no longer feasible, the grant funds proposed for amendment shall be recaptured by HUD.

# Subpart E—Imminent Threat Grants
§ 1003.400
Criteria for funding.
The following criteria apply to requests for assistance under this subpart:
(a) In response to requests for assistance, HUD may make funds available under this subpart to applicants to alleviate or remove imminent threats to health or safety. The urgency and immediacy of the threat shall be independently verified before the approval of an application. Funds may only be used to deal with imminent threats that are not of a recurring nature and which represent a unique and unusual circumstance, and which impact on an entire service area.
(b) Funds to alleviate imminent threats may be granted only if the applicant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of HUD that other tribal or Federal funding sources cannot be made available to alleviate the threat.
(c) HUD will establish grant ceilings for imminent threat applications.
§ 1003.401
Application process.
(a)
Letter to proceed.
The Area ONAP may issue the applicant a letter to proceed to incur costs to alleviate imminent threats to health and safety only if the assisted activities do not alter environmental conditions and are for temporary or permanent improvements limited to protection, repair, or restoration actions necessary only to control or arrest the effects of imminent threats or physical deterioration. Reimbursement of such costs is dependent upon HUD approval of the application.
(b)
Applications.
Applications shall include the information specified in the Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA).
(c)
Application approval.
Applications which meet the requirement of this section may be approved by the Area ONAP without competition in accordance with the applicable requirements of § 1003.304.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0191)
§ 1003.402
Availability of funds.
Of the funds made available by the NOFA for the ICDBG program, an amount to be determined by the Assistant Secretary may be reserved by HUD for grants under this subpart. The amount of funds reserved for imminent threat funding during each funding cycle will be stated in the NOFA. If any of the reserved funds are not used to fund imminent threat grants during a fiscal year, they will be added to the allocation of ICDBG funds for the subsequent fiscal year and will be used as if they were a part of the new allocation.

# Subpart F—Grant Administration
§ 1003.500
Responsibility for grant administration.
(a) One or more tribal departments or authorities, including existing tribal public agencies, may be designated by the chief executive officer of the grantee to undertake activities assisted by this part. A public agency so designated shall be subject to the same requirements as are applicable to subrecipients.
(b) The grantee is responsible for ensuring that ICDBG funds are used in accordance with all program requirements. The use of designated public agencies, subrecipients, or contractors does not relieve the grantee of this responsibility. The grantee is also responsible for determining the adequacy of performance under subrecipient agreements and procurement contracts, and for taking appropriate action when performance problems arise, such as the actions described in § 1003.701.
§ 1003.501
Applicability of uniform administrative requirements and cost principles.
(a) Grantees and subrecipients shall comply with the requirements and standards of 2 CFR part 200, except for the following sections:
(1) Paragraph (a) of § 200.302, “Financial management.”
(2) Section 200.306, “Cost sharing or matching.”
(3) Section 200.307, “Program income” applies as modified by § 1003.503.
(4) Section 200.308, “Revisions of budget and program plans.”
(5) Section 200.311, “Real property,” except as provided in § 1003.600.
(6) Section 200.313, “Equipment” applies, except that in all cases in which the equipment is sold, the proceeds shall be program income.
(7) Section 200.314, “Supplies,” applies, except in all cases in which the supplies are sold, the proceeds shall be program income.
(8) Section 200.325, “Bonding requirements” applies. However, there may be circumstances under which the bonding requirements of 2 CFR 200.325 are inconsistent with other responsibilities and obligations of the grantee. In such circumstances, acceptable methods to provide performance and payment assurance may include:
(i) Deposit with the grantee of a cash escrow of not less than 20 percent of the total contract price, subject to reduction during the warranty period, commensurate with potential risk; or
(ii) Letter of credit for 25 percent of the total contract price, unconditionally payable upon demand of the grantee, subject to reduction during the warranty period commensurate with potential risk.
(9) Paragraphs (b) through (d) and (f) of § 200.328, “Monitoring and reporting program performance.”
(10) Section 200.333, “Retention requirements for records” applies. However, the retention period referenced in 2 CFR 200.333 pertaining to individual ICDBG activities starts from the date of the submission of the final status and evaluation report as prescribed in § 1003.506(a) in which the specific activity is reported.
(11) Section 200.343, “Closeout.”
(b)
Cost principles.
(1) All items of cost listed in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, which require prior Federal agency approval are allowable without the prior approval of HUD to the extent that they comply with the general policies and principles stated in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and are otherwise eligible under subpart C of this part, except for the following:
(i) Depreciation methods for fixed assets shall not be changed without the approval of the Federal cognizant agency.
(ii) Fines, penalties, damages, and other settlements are unallowable costs to the ICDBG program.
(iii) Costs of housing (
e.g.,
depreciation, maintenance, utilities, furnishings, rent), housing allowances and personal living expenses (goods or services for personal use), regardless of whether reported as taxable income to the employees (2 CFR 200.445), require HUD prior approval.
(iv) Organization costs (2 CFR 200.455) require HUD prior approval.
(2) No person providing consultant services in an employer-employee type of relationship shall receive more than a reasonable rate of compensation for personal services paid with ICDBG funds. In no event, however, shall such compensation exceed the equivalent of the daily rate paid for Level IV of the Executive Schedule.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0191)
[62 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 75944, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 1003.502
Agreements with subrecipients.
(a) Before disbursing any ICDBG funds to a subrecipient, the grantee shall sign a written agreement with the subrecipient. The agreement shall remain in effect during any period that the subrecipient has control over ICDBG funds, including program income.
(b) At a minimum, the written agreement with the subrecipient shall include provisions concerning the following items:
(1)
Statement of work.
The agreement shall include a description of the work to be performed, a schedule for completing the work, and a budget. These
items shall be in sufficient detail to provide a sound basis for the grantee effectively to monitor performance under the agreement.
(2)
Records and reports.
The grantee shall specify in the agreement the particular records the subrecipient must maintain and the particular reports the subrecipient must submit in order to assist the grantee in meeting its recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(3)
Program income.
The agreement shall include the program income requirements set forth in § 2 CFR 200.307 as modified by § 1003.503.
(4)
Uniform administrative requirements.
The agreement shall require the subrecipient to comply with applicable administrative requirements, as described in § 1003.501.
(5)
Other program requirements.
The agreement shall require the subrecipient to carry out each activity in compliance with all Federal laws and regulations described in subpart G of this part, except that the subrecipient does not assume the grantee's environmental responsibilities described at § 1003.605.
(6)
Conditions for religious organizations.
Where applicable, the conditions prescribed by HUD for the use of ICDBG funds by religious organizations shall be included in the agreement.
(7)
Suspension and termination.
The agreement shall set forth remedies for noncompliance and provisions on termination in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D.
(8)
Reversion of assets.
The agreement shall specify that upon its expiration the subrecipient shall transfer to the grantee any ICDBG funds on hand at the time of expiration and any accounts receivable attributable to the use of ICDBG funds. It shall also include provisions designed to ensure that any real property under the subrecipient's control that was acquired or improved in whole or in part with ICDBG funds (including ICDBG funds provided to the subrecipient in the form of a loan) in excess of $25,000 is either:
(i) Used to meet the primary objective as stated in § 1003.208 until five years after expiration of the agreement, or for such longer period of time as determined to be appropriate by the grantee; or
(ii) Not used in accordance with paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this section, in which event the subrecipient shall pay to the grantee an amount equal to the current market value of the property less any portion of the value attributable to expenditures of non-ICDBG funds for the acquisition of, or improvement to, the property. The payment is program income to the grantee if it is received during the grant period. (No payment is required after the period of time specified in paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this section.)
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0191)
[62 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 1003.503
Program income.
(a) Program income requirements for ICDBG grantees are set forth in 2 CFR 200.307, as modified by this section.
(b)
Program income
means gross income received by the grantee or a subrecipient directly generated from the use of ICDBG funds during the grant period, except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. When program income is generated by an activity that is only partially assisted with ICDBG funds, the income shall be prorated to reflect the percentage of ICDBG funds used.
(1) Program income includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(i) Proceeds from the disposition by sale or long-term lease of real property purchased or improved with ICDBG funds;
(ii) Proceeds from the disposition of equipment purchased with ICDBG funds;
(iii) Gross income from the use or rental of real or personal property acquired by the grantee or by a subrecipient with ICDBG funds, less costs incidental to generation of the income;
(iv) Gross income from the use or rental of real property, owned by the grantee or by a subrecipient, that was constructed or improved with ICDBG funds, less costs incidental to generation of the income;
(v) Payments of principal and interest on loans made using ICDBG funds,
except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section;
(vi) Proceeds from the sale of loans made with ICDBG funds except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section;
(vii) Proceeds from sale of obligations secured by loans made with ICDBG funds;
(viii) Interest earned on funds held in a revolving fund account;
(ix) Interest earned on program income pending its disposition; and
(x) Funds collected through special assessments made against properties owned and occupied by households not of low and moderate income, where the assessments are used to recover all or part of the ICDBG portion of a public improvement.
(2) Program income does not include income earned on grant advances from the U.S. Treasury. The following items of income earned on grant advances must be remitted to HUD for transmittal to the U.S. Treasury and will not be reallocated:
(i) Interest earned from the investment of the initial proceeds of a grant advance by the U.S. Treasury;
(ii) Income (e.g., interest) earned on loans or other forms of assistance provided with ICDBG funds that are used for activities determined by HUD either to be ineligible or that fail substantially to meet any other requirement of this part.
(3) The calculation of the amount of program income for the grantee's ICDBG program as a whole (i.e., comprising activities carried out by a grantee and its subrecipients) shall exclude payments made by subrecipients of principal and/or interest on loans received from grantees where such payments are made from program income received by the subrecipient. (By making such payments, the subrecipient shall be deemed to have transferred program income to the grantee.) The amount of program income derived from this calculation shall be used for reporting purposes and in determining limitations on planning and administration and public services activities to be paid for with ICDBG funds.
(4) Program income does not include any income received in a single year by the grantee and all its subrecipients if the total amount of such income does not exceed $25,000.
(5) Examples of other receipts that are not considered program income are proceeds from fundraising activities carried out by subrecipients receiving ICDBG assistance; funds collected through special assessments used to recover the non-ICDBG portion of a public improvement; and proceeds from the disposition of real property acquired or improved with ICDBG funds when the disposition occurs after the applicable time period specified in § 1003.502(b)(8) for subrecipient-controlled property, or in § 1003.504 for grantee-controlled property.
(6) For purposes of determining the applicability of the program income requirements included in this part and in 2 CFR 200.307, the grant period is the time between the effective date of the grant agreement and the close-out of the grant pursuant to the requirements of § 1003.508.
(7) As provided for in 2 CFR 200.307(e)(2), program income received will be added to the funds committed to the grant agreement and shall be used for purposes and under the conditions of the grant agreement.
(8) Recording program income. The receipt and expenditure of program income as defined in § 1003.503(b) shall be recorded as part of the financial transactions of the grant program.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0191)
[62 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 1003.504
Use of real property.
The standards described in this section apply to real property within the grantee's control which was acquired or improved in whole or in part using ICDBG funds in excess of $25,000. These standards shall apply from the date ICDBG funds are first spent for the property until five years after the closeout of the grant from which the assistance to the property was provided.
(a) A grantee may not change the use or planned use of any such property (including the beneficiaries of such use) from that for which the acquisition or improvement was made unless the grantee provides affected citizens
with reasonable notice of, and opportunity to comment on, any proposed change, and either:
(1) The new use of such property qualifies as meeting the primary objective set forth in § 1003.208 and is not a building for the general conduct of government; or
(2) The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section are met.
(b) If the grantee determines, after consultation with affected citizens, that it is appropriate to change the use of the property to a use which does not qualify under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, it may retain or dispose of the property for the changed use if the grantee's ICDBG program is reimbursed in the amount of the current fair market value of the property, less any portion of the value attributable to expenditures of non-ICDBG funds for acquisition of, and improvements to, the property.
(c) If the change of use occurs after program closeout, the proceeds from the disposition of the real property shall be used for activities which meet the eligibility requirements set forth in subpart C of this part and the primary objective set forth in § 1003.208.
(d) Following the reimbursement of the ICDBG program in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, the property no longer will be subject to any ICDBG requirements.
§ 1003.505
Records to be maintained.
Each grantee shall establish and maintain sufficient records to enable the Secretary to determine whether the grantee has met the requirements of this part. This includes establishing and maintaining records demonstrating that the recipient has made the determinations required as a condition of eligibility of certain activities, including as prescribed in § 1003.209.
[74 FR 1869, Jan. 13, 2009]
§ 1003.506
Reports.
(a)
Status and evaluation report.
Grantees shall submit a status and evaluation report on previously funded open grants 45 days after the end of the Federal fiscal year and at the time of grant close-out. The report shall be in a narrative form addressing these areas.
(1)
Progress.
The progress made in completing approved activities should be described. This description should include a listing of work remaining together with a revised implementation schedule, if necessary.
(2)
Expenditure of funds.
A breakdown of funds spent on each major project activity or category should be provided.
(3)
Program performance.
Data on program outputs and outcomes, in a form prescribed by HUD.
(4)
Grantee assessment.
If the project has been completed, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the project in meeting the community development needs of the grantee should be provided.
(b)
Minority business enterprise reports.
Grantees shall submit to HUD, by October 10, a report on contract and subcontract activity during the fiscal year.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0191)
[61 FR 40090, July 31, 1996. Redesignated at 62 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 75 FR 20271, Apr. 19, 2010]
§ 1003.507
Public access to program records.
Notwithstanding the provisions of 2 CFR 200.337, grantees shall provide citizens with reasonable access to records regarding the past use of ICDBG funds, consistent with applicable State and tribal laws regarding privacy and obligations of confidentiality.
[62 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 1003.508
Grant closeout procedures.
(a)
Criteria for closeout.
A grant will be closed out when the Area ONAP determines, in consultation with the grantee, that the following criteria have been met:
(1) All costs to be paid with ICDBG funds have been incurred, with the exception of closeout costs (e.g., audit costs) and costs resulting from contingent liabilities described in the closeout agreement pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. Contingent liabilities include, but are not limited to, third-party claims against the grantee, as well as related administrative costs.
(2) With respect to activities which are financed by means of escrow accounts, loan guarantees, or similar mechanisms, the work to be assisted with ICDBG funds has actually been completed.
(3) Other responsibilities of the grantee under the grant agreement and applicable laws and regulations appear to have been carried out satisfactorily or there is no further Federal interest in keeping the grant agreement open for the purpose of securing performance.
(b)
Closeout actions.
(1) Within 90 days of the date it is determined that the criteria for closeout have been met, the grantee shall submit to the Area ONAP a copy of the final status and evaluation report described in § 1003.506(a) and a completed Financial Status Report (SF-269). If acceptable reports are not submitted, an audit of the grantee's program activities may be conducted by HUD.
(2) Based on the information provided in the status report and other relevant information, the grantee, in consultation with the Area ONAP, will prepare a closeout agreement in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) The Area ONAP will cancel any unused portion of the awarded grant, as shown in the signed grant closeout agreement. Any unused grant funds disbursed from the U.S. Treasury which are in the possession of the grantee shall be refunded to HUD.
(4) Any costs paid with ICDBG funds which were not audited previously shall be subject to coverage in the grantee's next single audit performed in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. The grantee may be required to repay HUD any disallowed costs based on the results of the audit, or on additional HUD reviews provided for in the closeout agreement.
(c)
Closeout agreement.
Any obligations remaining as of the date of the closeout shall be covered by the terms of a closeout agreement. The agreement shall be prepared by the grantee in consultation with the Area ONAP. The agreement shall identify the grant being closed out, and include provisions with respect to the following:
(1) Identification of any closeout costs or contingent liabilities subject to payment with ICDBG funds after the closeout agreement is signed;
(2) Identification of any unused grant funds to be canceled by HUD;
(3) Identification of any program income on deposit in financial institutions at the time the closeout agreement is signed;
(4) Description of the grantee's responsibility after closeout for:
(i) Compliance with all program requirements, certifications and assurances in using program income on deposit at the time the closeout agreement is signed and in using any other remaining ICDBG funds available for closeout costs and contingent liabilities;
(ii) Use of real property assisted with ICDBG funds in accordance with the principles described in § 1003.504; and
(iii) Ensuring that flood insurance coverage for affected property owners is maintained for the mandatory period;
(5) Other provisions appropriate to any special circumstances of the grant closeout, in modification of or in addition to the obligations in paragraphs (c) (1) through (4) of this section. The agreement shall authorize monitoring by HUD, and shall provide that findings of noncompliance may be taken into account by HUD as unsatisfactory performance of the grantee in the consideration of any future grant award under this part.
(d)
Termination of grant for convenience.
Grant assistance provided under this part may be terminated for convenience in whole or in part before the completion of the assisted activities, in accordance with the provisions of 2 CFR 200.339. The grantee shall not incur new obligations for the terminated portions after the effective date, and shall cancel as many outstanding obligations as possible. HUD shall allow full credit to the grantee for those portions of obligations which could not be canceled and which had been properly incurred by the grantee in carrying out the activities before the termination. The closeout policies contained in this section shall apply in such cases, except where the approved grant is terminated in its entirety. Responsibility for the environmental review to be performed under 24 CFR part
50 or 24 CFR part 58, as applicable, shall be determined as part of the closeout process.
(e)
Termination for cause.
In cases in which HUD terminates the grantee's grant under the authority of subpart H of this part, or under the terms of the grant agreement, the closeout policies contained in this section shall apply, except where the approved grant is canceled in its entirety. The provisions in 2 CFR 200.342 on the effects of termination shall also apply. HUD shall determine whether an environmental review is required, and if so, HUD shall perform it in accordance with 24 CFR part 50.
[62 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 1003.509
Force account construction.
(a) The use of tribal work forces for construction or renovation activities performed as part of the activities funded under this part shall be approved by the Area ONAP before the start of project implementation. In reviewing requests for an approval of force account construction or renovation, the area ONAP may require that the grantee provide the following:
(1) Documentation to indicate that it has carried out or can carry out successfully a project of the size and scope of the proposal;
(2) Documentation to indicate that it has obtained or can obtain adequate supervision for the workers to be used;
(3) Information showing that the workers to be used are, or will be, listed on the tribal payroll and are employed directly by a unit, department or other governmental instrumentality of the tribe or village.
(b) Any and all excess funds derived from the force account construction or renovation activities shall accrue to the grantee and shall be reprogrammed for other activities eligible under this part in accordance with § 1003.305 or returned to HUD promptly.
(c) Insurance coverage for force account workers and activities shall, where applicable, include worker's compensation, public liability, property damage, builder's risk, and vehicular liability.
(d) The grantee shall specify and apply reasonable labor performance, construction, or renovation standards to work performed under the force account.
(e) The contracting and procurement standards set forth in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, apply to material, equipment, and supply procurement from outside vendors under this section.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0191)
[62 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 1003.510
Indian preference requirements.
(a) Applicability. HUD has determined that grants under this part are subject to Section 7(b) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b). Section 7(b) provides that any contract, subcontract, grant or subgrant pursuant to an act authorizing grants to Indian organizations or for the benefit of Indians shall require that, to the greatest extent feasible:
(1) Preference and opportunities for training and employment shall be given to Indians; and
(2) Preference in the award of contracts and subcontracts shall be given to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises as defined in section 3 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1452).
(b)
Definitions.
(1) The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act [25 U.S.C. 450b] defines “Indian” to mean a person who is a member of an Indian tribe and defines “Indian tribe” to mean any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community including any Alaska native village or regional or village corporation as defined or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
(2) In section 3 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1452)
economic enterprise
is defined as any Indian—owned commercial, industrial, or business activity established or organized for the purpose of profit, except that Indian ownership must constitute not less than 51 percent of the enterprise. This act defines
Indian organization
to
mean the governing body of any Indian tribe or entity established or recognized by such governing body.
(c)
Preference in administration of grant.
To the greatest extent feasible, preference and opportunities for training and employment in connection with the administration of grants awarded under this part shall be given to Indians.
(d)
Preference in contracting.
To the greatest extent feasible, grantees shall give preference in the award of contracts for projects funded under this part to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises.
(1) Each grantee shall:
(i) Advertise for bids or proposals limited to qualified Indian organizations and Indian-owned enterprises; or
(ii) Use a two-stage preference procedure, as follows:
(A)
Stage 1.
Invite or otherwise solicit Indian-owned economic enterprises to submit a statement of intent to respond to a bid announcement or request for proposals limited to Indian-owned firms.
(B)
Stage 2.
If responses are received from more than one Indian enterprise found to be qualified, advertise for bids or proposals limited to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises; or
(iii) Develop, subject to Area ONAP one-time approval, the grantee's own method of providing preference.
(2) If the grantee selects a method of providing preference that results in fewer than two responsible qualified organizations or enterprises submitting a statement of intent, a bid or a proposal to perform the contract at a reasonable cost, then the grantee shall:
(i) Re-advertise the contract, using any of the methods described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; or
(ii) Re-advertise the contract without limiting the advertisement for bids or proposals to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises; or
(iii) If one approvable bid or proposal is received, request Area ONAP review and approval of the proposed contract and related procurement documents, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.320, in order to award the contract to the single bidder or offeror.
(3) Procurements that are within the dollar limitations established for small purchases under 2 CFR 200.320 need not follow the formal bid or proposal procedures of paragraph (d) of this section, since these procurements are governed by the small purchase procedures of2 CFR 200.320. However, a grantee's small purchase procurement shall, to the greatest extent feasible, provide Indian preference in the award of contracts.
(4) All preferences shall be publicly announced in the advertisement and bidding or proposal solicitation documents and the bidding and proposal documents.
(5) A grantee, at its discretion, may require information of prospective contractors seeking to qualify as Indian organizations or Indian-owned economic enterprises. Grantees may require prospective contractors to include the following information prior to submitting a bid or proposal, or at the time of submission:
(i) Evidence showing fully the extent of Indian ownership and interest;
(ii) Evidence of structure, management and financing affecting the Indian character of the enterprise, including major subcontracts and purchase agreements; materials or equipment supply arrangements; and management salary or profit-sharing arrangements; and evidence showing the effect of these on the extent of Indian ownership and interest; and
(iii) Evidence sufficient to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the grantee that the prospective contractor has the technical, administrative, and financial capability to perform contract work of the size and type involved.
(6) The grantee shall incorporate the following clause (referred to as the Section 7(b) clause) in each contract awarded in connection with a project funded under this part:
(i) The work to be performed under this contract is on a project subject to Section 7(b) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b) (Indian Act). Section 7(b) requires that to the greatest extent feasible:
(A) Preferences and opportunities for training and employment shall be given to Indians; and
(B) Preferences in the award of contracts and subcontracts shall be given to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises.
(ii) The parties to this contract shall comply with the provisions of Section 7(b) of the Indian Act.
(iii) In connection with this contract, the contractor shall, to the greatest extent feasible, give preference in the award of any subcontracts to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises, and preferences and opportunities for training and employment to Indians.
(iv) The contractor shall include this Section 7(b) clause in every subcontract in connection with the project, and shall, at the direction of the grantee, take appropriate action pursuant to the subcontract upon a finding by the grantee or HUD that the subcontractor has violated the Section 7(b) clause of the Indian Act.
(e)
Complaint procedures.
The following complaint procedures are applicable to complaints arising out of any of the methods of providing for Indian preference contained in this part, including alternate methods enacted and approved in a manner described in this section:
(1) Each complaint shall be in writing, signed, and filed with the grantee.
(2) A complaint must be filed with the grantee no later than 20 calendar days from the date of the action (or omission) upon which the complaint is based.
(3) Upon receipt of a complaint, the grantee shall promptly stamp the date and time of receipt upon the complaint, and immediately acknowledge its receipt.
(4) Within 20 calendar days of receipt of a complaint, the grantee shall either meet, or communicate by mail or telephone, with the complainant in an effort to resolve the matter. The grantee shall make a determination on a complaint and notify the complainant, in writing, within 30 calendar days of the submittal of the complaint to the grantee. The decision of the grantee shall constitute final administrative action on the complaint.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0191)
[62 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 1003.511
Use of escrow accounts for rehabilitation of privately owned residential property.
(a)
Limitations.
A grantee may withdraw funds from its line of credit for immediate deposit into an escrow account for use in funding loans and grants for the rehabilitation of privately owned residential property under § 1003.202(a)(1). The following additional limitations apply to the use of escrow accounts for residential rehabilitation loans and grants closed after September 7, 1990:
(1) The use of escrow accounts under this section is limited to loans and grants for the rehabilitation of primarily residential properties containing no more than four dwelling units (and accessory neighborhood-scale non-residential space within the same structure, if any, e.g., a store front below a dwelling unit).
(2) An escrow account shall not be used unless the contract between the property owner and the contractor selected to do the rehabilitation work specifically provides that payment to the contractor shall be made through an escrow account maintained by the grantee, by a subrecipient as defined in § 1003.4, by a public agency designated under § 1003.500(a), or by an agent under a procurement contact governed by the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D. No deposit to the escrow account shall be made until after the contract has been executed between the property owner and the rehabilitation contractor.
(3) All funds withdrawn under this section shall be deposited into one interest earning account with a financial institution. Separate bank accounts shall not be established for individual loans and grants.
(4) The amount of funds deposited into an escrow account shall be limited to the amount expected to be disbursed within 10 working days from the date of deposit. If the escrow account, for whatever reason, at any time contains
funds exceeding 10 days cash needs, the grantee immediately shall transfer the excess funds to its program account. In the program account, the excess funds shall be treated as funds erroneously drawn in accordance with the requirements of U.S. Treasury Financial Manual, paragraph 6-2075.30.
(5) Funds deposited into an escrow account shall be used only to pay the actual costs of rehabilitation incurred by the owner under the contract with a private contractor. Other eligible costs related to the rehabilitation loan or grant, e.g., the grantee's administrative costs under § 1003.206 or rehabilitation services costs under § 1003.202(b)(9), are not permissible uses of escrowed funds. Such other eligible rehabilitation costs shall be paid under normal ICDBG payment procedures (e.g., from withdrawals of grant funds under the grantee's line of credit with the Treasury).
(b)
Interest.
Interest earned on escrow accounts established in accordance with this section, less any service charges for the account, shall be remitted to HUD at least quarterly but not more frequently than monthly. Interest earned on escrow accounts is not required to be remitted to HUD to the extent the interest is attributable to the investment of program income.
(c)
Remedies for noncompliance.
If HUD determines that a grantee has failed to use an escrow account in accordance with this section, HUD may, in addition to imposing any other sanctions provided for under this part, require the grantee to discontinue the use of escrow accounts, in whole or in part.
[62 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Subpart G—Other Program Requirements
§ 1003.600
Equal participation of faith-based organizations.
The HUD program requirements in § 5.109 of this title apply to the ICDBG program, including the requirements regarding disposition and change in use of real property by a faith-based organization.
[81 FR 19418, Apr. 4, 2016]
§ 1003.601
Nondiscrimination.
(a) Under the authority of section 107(e)(2) of the Act, the Secretary waives the requirement that grantees comply with section 109 of the Act except with respect to the prohibition of discrimination based on age, sex, religion, or against an otherwise qualified disabled individual.
(b) A grantee shall comply with the provisions of title II of Pub. L. 90-284 (24 U.S.C. 1301—the Indian Civil Rights Act) in the administration of a program or activity funded in whole or in part with funds made available under this part. For purposes of this section, “program or activity” is defined as any function conducted by an identifiable administrative unit of the grantee; and “funded in whole or in part with funds made available under this part” means that ICDBG funds in any amount have been transferred by the grantee to an identifiable administrative unit and disbursed in a program or activity.
(c) A grantee shall comply with the equal access to HUD-assisted or -insured housing requirements in 24 CFR 5.105(a)(2).
[61 FR 40090, July 31, 1996, as amended at 81 FR 80993, Nov. 17, 2016]
§ 1003.602
Relocation and real property acquisition.
(a)
Minimize displacement.
Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, grantees shall assure that they have taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (households, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a project assisted under this part.
(b)
Temporary relocation.
The following policies cover residential tenants who will not be required to move permanently but who must relocate temporarily for the project. Such tenants must be provided:
(1) Reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied housing and any increase in monthly housing costs (e.g., rent/utility costs).
(2) Appropriate advisory services, including reasonable advance written notice of:
(i) The date and approximate duration of the temporary relocation;
(ii) The location of the suitable, decent, safe and sanitary dwelling to be made available for the temporary period;
(iii) The terms and conditions under which the tenant may occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the building/complex following completion of the repairs; and
(iv) The provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Relocation assistance for displaced persons.
A displaced person (defined in paragraph (g) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of, the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (URA)(42 U.S.C. 4601-4655) and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24.
(d)
Optional relocation assistance.
Under section 105(a)(11) of the Act, the grantee may provide relocation payments and other relocation assistance to persons displaced by a project that is not subject to paragraph (c) of this section. The grantee may also provide relocation assistance to persons receiving assistance under paragraph (c) of this section at levels in excess of those required. For assistance that is not required by State or tribal law, the grantee shall adopt a written policy available to the public that describes the relocation assistance that it has elected to furnish and provides for equal relocation assistance within each class of displaced persons.
(e)
Real Property acquisition requirements.
The acquisition of real property for an assisted activity is subject to 49 CFR part 24, subpart B. Whenever the grantee does not have the authority to acquire the real property through condemnation, it shall:
(1) Before discussing the purchase price, inform the owner:
(i) Of the amount it believes to be the fair market value of the property. Such amount shall be based upon one or more appraisals prepared by a qualified appraiser. However, this provision does not prevent the grantee from accepting a donation or purchasing the real property at less than its fair market value.
(ii) That it will be unable to acquire the property if negotiations fail to result in an amicable agreement.
(2) Request HUD approval of the proposed acquisition price before executing a firm commitment to purchase the property. The grantee shall include with its request a copy of the appraisal(s) and, when applicable, a justification for any proposed acquisition payment that exceeds the fair market value of the property. HUD will promptly review the proposal and inform the grantee of its approval or disapproval.
(f)
Appeals.
A person who disagrees with the grantee's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a “displaced person,” or the amount of relocation assistance for which the person is eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the grantee. A person who is dissatisfied with the grantee's determination on his or her appeal may submit a written request for review of that determination to the HUD Area ONAP.
(g)
Responsibility of grantee.
(1) The grantee shall certify that it will comply with the URA, the regulations at 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section,
i.e.,
provide assurance of compliance as required by 49 CFR part 24. The grantee shall ensure such compliance notwithstanding any third party's contractual obligation to the grantee to comply with these provisions.
(2) The cost of required relocation assistance is an eligible project cost in the same manner and to the same extent as other project costs. However, such assistance may also be paid for with funds available to the grantee from any other source.
(3) The grantee shall maintain records in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with this section.
(h)
Definition of displaced person.
(1) For purposes of this section, the term
displaced person
means any person (household, business, nonprofit organization, or farm) that moves from real property, or moves his or her personal property from real property, permanently, as a direct result of rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition for a project assisted under this part. The
term “displaced person” includes, but is not limited to:
(i) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit who moves from the building/complex permanently after the submission to HUD of an application for financial assistance that is later approved.
(ii) Any person, including a person who moves before the date described in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, that either HUD or the grantee determines was displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the assisted project.
(iii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who moves from the building/complex permanently, after the execution of the agreement between the grantee and HUD, if the move occurs before the tenant is provided written notice offering him or her the opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe and sanitary dwelling in the same building/complex, under reasonable terms and conditions, upon completion of the project. Such reasonable terms and conditions include a monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs that do not exceed the greater of:
(A) The tenant's monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs before the agreement; or
(B) 30 percent of gross household income.
(iv) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who is required to relocate temporarily, but does not return to the building/complex, if either:
(A) The tenant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied unit, any increased housing costs and incidental expenses; or
(B) Other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable.
(v) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who moves from the building/complex after he or she has been required to move to another dwelling unit in the same building/complex in order to carry out the project, if either:
(A) The tenant is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move; or
(B) Other conditions of the move are not reasonable.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (h)(1) of this section, a person does not qualify as a “displaced person” (and is not eligible for relocation assistance under the URA or this section), if:
(i) The person moved into the property after the submission of the application for financial assistance to HUD, but, before signing a lease or commencing occupancy, was provided written notice of the project, its possible impact on the person (e.g., the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated or suffer a rent increase) and the fact that the person would not qualify as a “displaced person” or for any assistance provided under this section as a result of the project;
(ii) The person is ineligible under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2).
(iii) The grantee determines the person is not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for an assisted project. To exclude a person on this basis, HUD must concur in that determination.
(3) A grantee may at any time ask HUD to determine whether a specific displacement is or would be covered under this section.
(i)
Definition of initiation of negotiations.
For purposes of determining the formula for computing the replacement housing assistance to be provided to a person displaced as a direct result of rehabilitation or demolition of the real property, the term “initiation of negotiations” means the execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation or demolition.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0191)
§ 1003.603
Labor standards.
In accordance with the authority under section 107(e)(2) of the Act, the Secretary waives the provisions of section 110 of the Act (Labor Standards) with respect to this part, including the requirement that laborers and mechanics employed by the contractor or subcontractor in the performance of construction work financed in whole or in part with assistance received under this part be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on similar
construction in the locality, as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276 a to a-7).
§ 1003.604
Citizen participation.
(a) In order to permit residents of Indian tribes and Alaska native villages to examine and appraise the applicant's application for funds under this part, the applicant shall follow traditional means of resident involvement which, at the least, include the following:
(1) Furnishing residents with information concerning the amounts of funds available for proposed community development and housing activities and the range of activities that may be undertaken.
(2) Holding one or more meetings to obtain the views of residents on community development and housing needs. Meetings shall be scheduled in ways and at times that will allow participation by residents.
(3) Developing and publishing or posting a community development statement in such a manner as to afford affected residents an opportunity to examine its contents and to submit comments.
(4) Affording residents an opportunity to review and comment on the applicant's performance under any active community development block grant.
(b) Prior to submission of the application to HUD, the applicant shall certify by an official Tribal resolution that it has met the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section; and
(1) Considered any comments and views expressed by residents and, if it deems it appropriate, modified the application accordingly; and
(2) Made the modified application available to residents.
(c) No part of the requirement under paragraph (a) of this section shall be construed to restrict the responsibility and authority of the applicant for the development of the application and the execution of the grant. Accordingly, the citizen participation requirements of this section do not include concurrence by any person or group in making final determinations on the contents of the application.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0191)
§ 1003.605
Environment.
(a) In order to assure that the policies of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and other provisions of Federal law which further the purposes of that act (as specified in 24 CFR 58.5) are most effectively implemented in connection with the expenditure of ICDBG funds, the grantee shall comply with the Environment Review Procedures for Entities Assuming HUD Environmental Responsibilities (24 CFR part 58). Upon completion of an environmental review, the grantee shall submit a certification and request for release of funds for particular projects in accordance with 24 CFR part 58. The grantee shall also be responsible for compliance with flood insurance, coastal barrier resource and airport clear zone requirements under 24 CFR 58.6.
(b) In accordance with 24 CFR 58.34(a)(8), grants for imminent threats to health or safety approved under the provisions of subpart E of this part are exempt from some or all of the environmental review requirements of 24 CFR part 58, to the extent provided in that section.
§ 1003.606
Conflict of interest.
(a)
Applicability.
(1) In the procurement of supplies, equipment, construction, and services by grantees and subgrantees, the conflict of interest provisions in 2 CFR 200.112, 200.318(c), and 200.319(a)(5) shall apply.
(2) In all cases not governed by 2 CFR 200.318, the provisions of this section shall apply. Such cases include the provision of assistance by the grantee or by its subrecipients to businesses, individuals, and other private entities under eligible activities that authorize such assistance (e.g., rehabilitation, preservation, and other improvements of private properties or facilities under § 1003.202; or grants, loans, and other assistance to businesses, individuals, and other private entities under § 1003.203 or § 1003.204.).
(b)
Conflicts prohibited.
Except for the use of ICDBG funds to pay salaries and
other related administrative or personnel costs, the general rule is that no persons described in paragraph (c) of this section who exercise or have exercised any functions or responsibilities with respect to ICDBG activities assisted under this part or who are in a position to participate in a decision-making process or gain inside information with regard to such activities, may obtain a personal or financial interest or benefit from an ICDBG assisted activity, or have an interest in any contract, subcontract or agreement with respect thereto, or the proceeds thereunder, either for themselves or those with whom they have family or business ties, during their tenure or for one year thereafter.
(c)
Persons covered.
The conflict of interest provisions of paragraph (b) of this section apply to any person who is an employee, agent, consultant, officer, or elected or appointed official of the grantee, or of any designated public agencies, or CBDOs under § 1003.204, receiving funds under this part.
(d)
Exceptions requiring HUD approval
—(1)
Threshold requirements.
Upon the written request of a grantee, HUD may grant an exception to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section on a case-by-case basis, when it determines that such an exception will serve to further the purposes of the Act and the effective and efficient administration of the grantee's program or project. An exception may be considered only after the grantee has provided the following:
(i) A disclosure of the nature of the possible conflict, accompanied by an assurance that there has been public disclosure of the conflict and a description of how the public disclosure was made; and
(ii) An opinion of the grantee's attorney that the interest for which the exception is sought would not violate Tribal laws on conflict of interest, or applicable State laws.
(2)
Factors to be considered for exceptions:
In determining whether to grant a requested exception after the grantee has satisfactorily met the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, HUD shall consider the cumulative effect of the following factors, where applicable:
(i) Whether the exception would provide a significant cost benefit or essential expert knowledge to the program or project which would otherwise not be available;
(ii) Whether an opportunity was provided for open competitive bidding or negotiation;
(iii) Whether the affected person has withdrawn from his or her functions or responsibilities, or from the decision-making process, with reference to the specific assisted activity in question;
(iv) Whether the interest or benefit was present before the affected person was in a position as described in paragraph (b) of this section;
(v) Whether undue hardship will result, either to the grantee or to the person affected, when weighed against the public interest served by avoiding the prohibited conflict;
(vi) Any other relevant considerations.
(e)
Circumstances under which the conflict prohibition does not apply.
(1) In instances where a person who might otherwise be deemed to be included under the conflict prohibition is a member of a group or class of beneficiaries of the assisted activity and receives generally the same interest or benefits as are being made available or provided to the group or class, the prohibition does not apply, except that if, by not applying the prohibition against conflict of interest, a violation of Tribal or State laws on conflict of interest would result, the prohibition does apply. However, if the assistance to be provided is housing rehabilitation (or repair) or new housing, a public disclosure of the nature of the assistance to be provided and the specific basis for the selection of the proposed beneficiaries must be made prior to the submission of an application to HUD. Evidence of this disclosure must be provided as a component of the application.
(f)
Record retention.
All records pertaining to the grantee's decision under this section shall be maintained for HUD review upon request.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0191)
[62 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 1003.607
Lead-based paint.
The requirements of the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4821-4846), the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851-4856), and implementing regulations part 35, subparts A, B, J, K, and R of this title apply to activities conducted under this program.
[64 FR 50230, Sept. 15, 1999]
§ 1003.608
Debarment and suspension.
The requirements in 2 CFR part 2424 are applicable. ICDBG funds cannot be provided to excluded or disqualified persons.
[72 FR 73497, Dec. 27, 2007]
§ 1003.609
Housing counseling.
Housing counseling, as defined in 24 CFR 5.100, that is funded with or provided in connection with ICDBG funds must be carried out in accordance with 24 CFR 5.111. Housing counseling conducted in connection with the ICDBG program may only be conducted by individuals who are HUD-certified in accordance with 24 CFR part 214, subpart F.
[89 FR 49808, June 12, 2024]

# Subpart H—Program Performance
§ 1003.700
Review of grantee's performance.
(a)
Objective.
HUD will review each grantee's performance to determine whether the grantee has:
(1) Complied with the requirements of the Act, this part, the grant agreement and other applicable laws and regulations;
(2) Carried out its activities substantially as described in its application;
(3) Made substantial progress in carrying out its approved program;
(4) A continuing capacity to carry out the approved activities in a timely manner; and
(5) The capacity to undertake additional activities funded under this part.
(b)
Basis for review.
In reviewing each grantee's performance, HUD will consider all available evidence which may include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1) The approved application and any amendments thereto;
(2) Reports prepared by the grantee;
(3) Records maintained by the grantee;
(4) Results of HUD's monitoring of the grantee's performance, including field evaluation of the quality of the work performed;
(5) Audit reports;
(6) Records of drawdowns on the line of credit;
(7) Records of comments and complaints by citizens and organizations; and
(8) Litigation.
§ 1003.701
Corrective and remedial action.
(a)
General.
One or more corrective or remedial actions will be taken by HUD when, on the basis of the performance review, HUD determines that the grantee has not:
(1) Complied with the requirements of the Act, this part, and other applicable laws and regulations, including the environmental responsibilities assumed under section 104(g) of title I of the Act;
(2) Carried out its activities substantially as described in its applications;
(3) Made substantial progress in carrying out its approved program; or
(4) Shown the continuing capacity to carry out its approved activities in a timely manner.
(b)
Action.
The action taken by HUD will be designed, first, to prevent the continuance of the deficiency; second, to mitigate any adverse effects or consequences of the deficiency; and third, to prevent a recurrence of the same or similar deficiencies. The following actions may be taken singly or in combination, as appropriate for the circumstances:
(1) Request the grantee to submit progress schedules for completing approved activities or for complying with the requirements of this part;
(2) Issue a letter of warning advising the grantee of the deficiency (including environmental review deficiencies and housing assistance deficiencies), describing the corrective actions to be
taken, establishing a date for corrective actions, and putting the grantee on notice that more serious actions will be taken if the deficiency is not corrected or is repeated;
(3) Advise the grantee to suspend, discontinue, or not incur costs for the affected activity;
(4) Advise the grantee to reprogram funds from affected activities to other eligible activities, provided that such action shall not be taken in connection with any substantial violation of part 58 and provided that such reprogramming is subjected to the environmental review procedures of part 58 of this title;
(5) Advise the grantee to reimburse the grantee's program account or line of credit in any amount improperly expended;
(6) Change the method of payment from a line of credit basis to a reimbursement basis; and/or
(7) Suspend the line of credit until corrective actions are taken.
§ 1003.702
Reduction or withdrawal of grant.
(a)
General.
A reduction or withdrawal of a grant under paragraph (b) of this section will not be made until at least one of the corrective or remedial actions specified in § 1003.701(b) has been taken and only then if the grantee has not made an appropriate and timely response. Before making such a grant reduction or withdrawal, the grantee also shall be notified and given an opportunity within a prescribed time for an informal consultation regarding the proposed action.
(b)
Reduction or withdrawal.
When the Area ONAP determines, on the basis of a review of the grantee's performance, that the objectives set forth in § 1003.700(a)(2) or (3) have not been met, the Area ONAP may reduce or withdraw the grant, except that funds already expended on eligible approved activities shall not be recaptured.
§ 1003.703
Other remedies for noncompliance.
(a)
Secretarial actions.
If the Secretary finds a grantee has failed to comply with any provision of this part even after corrective actions authorized under § 1003.701 have been applied, the following actions may be taken provided that reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing is made to the grantee. (The Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 551
et seq.
), where applicable, shall be a guide in any situation involving adjudications where the Secretary desires to take actions requiring reasonable notice and opportunity for a hearing):
(1) Terminate the grant to the grantee;
(2) Reduce the grant to the grantee by an amount equal to the amount which was not expended in accordance with this part; or
(3) Limit the availability of funds to projects or activities not affected by such failure to comply; provided, however, that the Secretary may on due notice revoke the grantee's line of credit in whole or in part at any time if the Secretary determines that such action is necessary to preclude the further expenditure of funds for activities affected by such failure to comply.
(b)
Secretarial referral to the Attorney General.
If there is reason to believe that a grantee has failed to comply substantially with any provision of the Act, the Secretary may refer the matter to the Attorney General of the United States with a recommendation that an appropriate civil action be instituted. Upon such a referral, the Attorney General may bring a civil action in any United States district court having venue thereof for such relief as may be appropriate, including an action to recover the amount of the assistance furnished under this part which was not expended in accordance with this part or for mandatory or injunctive relief.
PART 1004 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1005

# PART 1005—LOAN GUARANTEES FOR INDIAN HOUSING

# Subpart A—General Program Requirements
Sec.
1005.101
Purpose.
1005.102
Severability.
1005.103
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Lender Eligibility and Requirements
1005.201
Lender Applicant approval and participation.
1005.203
Lender Applicants deemed approved by statute.
1005.205
Lender Applicants required to obtain Secretarial approval.
1005.207
Lender Applicants participation options.
1005.209
Direct Guarantee Lender application process.
1005.211
Direct Guarantee Lender approval.
1005.213
Non-Direct Guarantee Lender application, approval, and Direct Guarantee Lender sponsorship.
1005.215
Direct Guarantee Lender annual reporting requirements.
1005.217
Quality control plan.
1005.219
Other requirements.
1005.221
Business change reporting.
1005.223
Direct Guarantee Lender Annual recertification requirements.
1005.225
Program ineligibility.

# Subpart C—Lending on Trust Land
1005.301
Tribal legal and administrative framework.
1005.303
Tribal application.
1005.305
Approval of Tribal application.
1005.307
Tribal annual recertification.
1005.309
Tribal duty to report proposed changes and actual changes.
1005.311
HUD notification of any lease default.
1005.313
Tribal reporting requirements.

# Subpart D—Underwriting

# Eligible Borrowers
1005.401
Eligible Borrowers.
1005.403
Principal Residence.
1005.405
Borrower residency status.
1005.407
Relationship of income to loan payments.
1005.409
Credit standing.
1005.411
Disclosure and verification of Social Security and Employer Identification Numbers or Tax Identification Number.

# Eligible Properties
1005.413
Acceptable title.
1005.415
Sale of property.
1005.417
Location of property.
1005.419
Requirements for standard housing.
1005.421
Certification of appraisal amount.
1005.423
Legal Restrictions on Conveyance.
1005.425
Rental properties.
1005.427
Refinancing.
1005.429
Eligibility of Loans covering manufactured homes.
1005.431
Acceptance of individual residential water purification.
1005.433
Builder warranty.

# Eligible Loans
1005.435
Eligible collateral.
1005.437
Loan provisions.
1005.439
Loan lien.
1005.441
Section 184 Guaranteed Loan limit.
1005.443
Loan amount.
1005.445
Case numbers.
1005.447
Maximum age of Loan documents.
1005.449
Qualified mortgage.
1005.451
Agreed interest rate.
1005.453
Amortization provisions.

# Underwriting
1005.455
Direct guarantee underwriting.
1005.457
Appraisal.
1005.459
Loan submission to HUD for endorsement.
1005.461
HUD issuance of Firm Commitment.

# Subpart E—Closing and Endorsement

# Closing
1005.501
Direct Guarantee Lender closing requirements.
1005.503
Contents of endorsement case binder.
1005.505
Payment of Upfront Loan Guarantee Fee.
1005.507
Borrower's payments to include other charges and escrow payments.
1005.509
Application of payments.
1005.511
Late fee.
1005.513
Borrower's payments when Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is executed.
1005.515
Charges, fees, or discounts.
1005.517
Certificate of nondiscrimination by the Direct Guarantee Lender.

# Endorsement and Post-Closing
1005.519
Creation of the contract.
1005.521
Pre-endorsement review and requirements.
1005.523
HUD pre-endorsement review.
1005.525
Loan Guarantee Certificate.
1005.527
Post-endorsement review.
1005.529
Indemnification.

# Subpart F—Section 184 Guaranteed Loan Fees
1005.601
Scope and method of payment.
1005.603
Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee.
1005.605
Remittance of Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee.
1005.607
Annual Loan Guarantee Fee.
1005.609
Remittance of Annual Loan Guarantee Fee.
1005.611
HUD imposed penalties.

# Subpart G—Servicing

# Servicing Section 184 Guaranteed Loans Generally
1005.701
Section 184 Guaranteed Loan servicing generally.
1005.703
Servicer eligibility and application process.
1005.705
Servicer approval.
1005.707
Responsibility for servicing.
1005.709
Providing information to Borrower and HUD.
1005.711
Assumption and release of personal liability.
1005.713
Due-on-sale provision.
1005.715
Application of Borrower payments.
1005.717
Administering escrow accounts.
1005.719
Fees and costs after endorsement.
1005.721
Enforcement of late fees.
1005.723
Partial Payments.
1005.725
Handling prepayments.
1005.727
Substitute Borrowers.

# Servicing Default Section 184 Guaranteed Loans
1005.729
Section 184 Guaranteed Loan collection action.
1005.731
Default notice to Borrower.
1005.733
Loss mitigation application, timelines, and appeals.
1005.735
Occupancy inspection.
1005.737
Vacant or abandoned property procedures.

# Servicing Default Section 184 Guaranteed Loans Under the Loss Mitigation Program
1005.739
Loss mitigation.
1005.741
Notice to Tribe and BIA—Borrower default.
1005.743
Relief for Borrower in military service.
1005.745
Forbearance plans.
1005.747
Assumption.
1005.749
Loan modification.
1005.751
Loss mitigation advance
1005.753
Pre-foreclosure sale.
1005.755
Deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure.
1005.757
Incentive payments.

# Assignment of the Loan to HUD; Foreclosure and Conveyance
1005.759
Property on Trust Land—Tribal First Right of Refusal; foreclosure or assignment
1005.761
Fee simple land properties—foreclosure or assignment with HUD approval.
1005.763
First Legal Action deadline and automatic extensions.
1005.765
Assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.
1005.767
Inspection and preservation of properties.
1005.769
Property condition.
1005.771
Conveyance of property to HUD at or after foreclosure; time of conveyance.
1005.773
HUD acceptance of assignment or conveyance.

# Subpart H—Claims

# Claims Application, Submission Categories and Types
1005.801
Purpose.
1005.803
Claim case binder; HUD authority to review records.
1005.805
Effect of noncompliance.
1005.807
Claim submission categories.
1005.809
Claim types.

# Submission of Claims
1005.811
Claims supporting documentation.
1005.813
Up-front and Annual Loan Guarantee Fee reconciliation.
1005.815
Conditions for withdrawal of claim.

# Property Title Transfers and Title Waivers
1005.817
Conveyance of Good and Marketable Title.
1005.819
Types of satisfactory title evidence.
1005.821
Coverage of title evidence.
1005.823
Waived title objections for properties on fee simple land.
1005.825
Waived title objections for properties on Trust Land.

# Condition of the Property
1005.827
Damage or neglect.
1005.829
Certificate of property condition.
1005.831
Cancellation of hazard insurance.

# Payment of Guarantee Benefits
1005.833
Method of payment.
1005.835
Claim payment not conclusive evidence of claim meeting all HUD requirements.
1005.837
Payment of claim: unpaid principal balance.
1005.839
Payment of claim: interest on unpaid principal balance.
1005.841
Payment of claim: reimbursement of eligible and reasonable costs.
1005.843
Reductions to the claim submission amount.
1005.845
Rights and liabilities under the Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund.
1005.847
Final payment.
1005.849
Reconveyance and reassignment
1005.851
Reimbursement of expenses to HUD.

# Subpart I—Performance Reviews, Reporting, Sanctions, and Appeals
1005.901
Performance reviews.
1005.903
Reporting and certifications.
1005.905
Notice of sanctions.
1005.907
Sanctions and civil money penalties.
1005.909
Appeals process.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715z-13a; 15 U.S.C. 1639c; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
89 FR 20056, Mar. 20, 2024; 89 FR 22084, Mar. 29, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Program Requirements
§ 1005.101
Purpose.
This part implements the Section 184 Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Program (“Section 184 Program”) authorized under Section 184 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, as amended, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1715z-13a. Section 184 authorizes the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to establish a loan guarantee program for American Indian and Alaskan Native families, Tribes, and tribally Designated Housing Entities (TDHE). The loans guaranteed under the Section 184 Program are used to construct, acquire, refinance, or rehabilitate one- to four-family standard housing located on Trust Land, land located in an Indian or Alaska Native area, and Section 184 Approved Program Area. These regulations apply to Lender Applicants, Holders, Direct and Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders, Servicers and Tribes seeking to or currently participating in the Section 184 Program.
§ 1005.102
Severability.
Any provision of this part held to be invalid or unenforceable as applied to any action should be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, unless such holding is that the provision of this part is invalid and unenforceable in all circumstances, in which event the provision should be severable from the remainder of this part and shall not affect the remainder thereof.
§ 1005.103
Definitions.
The following definitions apply throughout this part:
Acquisition Cost
means the sum of the sales price or construction cost for a property and the cost of allowable repairs or improvements for the same property, less any unallowable sales concession(s). For the purposes of this definition, the term “sales concession” means an inducement to purchase a property paid by the seller to consummate a sales transaction.
Amortization
means the calculated schedule of repayment of a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan in full, through structured, regular payments of principal and interest within a certain time frame.
Amortization Schedule
means the document generated at the time of loan approval outlining the Borrower's schedule of payments of principal and interest for the life of the loan and the unpaid principal balance with and without the financed Upfront Loan Guarantee Fee, where applicable.
Annual Loan Guarantee Fee
means a fee calculated on an annual basis and paid in monthly installments by the Borrower, which is collected by the Servicer and remitted to HUD for the purposes of financing the Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund.
BIA
means the United States Department of Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Borrower
means every individual on the mortgage application. For the purposes of servicing the loan, Borrower refers to every original Borrower who signed the note and their heirs, executors, administrators, assigns, and approved substitute Borrowers. Borrowers include Tribes and TDHEs.
Claim
means the Servicer's application to HUD for payment of benefits under the Loan Guarantee Certificate for a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.
Conflict of Interest
means any party to the transaction who has a direct or indirect personal business or financial relationship sufficient to appear that it may cause partiality or influence the transaction, or both.
Date of Default
means the day after the Borrower's obligation to make a loan payment or perform an obligation under the terms of the loan.
Day
means calendar day, except where the term “business day” is used.
Default
means when the Borrower has failed to make a loan payment or perform an obligation under the terms of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.
Direct Guarantee Lender
means a Lender approved by HUD under § 1005.21 to Originate, underwrite, close, service, purchase, hold, or sell Section 184 Guaranteed Loans.
Eligible Nonprofit Organization
means a nonprofit organization established
under Tribal law or organization of the type described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as an organization exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Code, which has:
(1) Two years' experience as a provider of low- or moderate-income housing;
(2) A voluntary board; and
(3) No part of its net earnings inuring to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor or individual.
Financial Statements
means audited financial statements or other financial records as required by HUD.
Firm Commitment
means a commitment by HUD to reserve funds, for a specified period of time, to guarantee a Loan under the Section 184 Program, when a Loan for a specific Borrower and property meets standards as set forth in subpart D of this part.
First Legal Action
means the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process.
Good and Marketable Title
means title that contains exceptions or restrictions, if any, which are permissible under subpart D of this part; and any objections to title that have been waived by HUD or otherwise cleared by HUD; and any discrepancies have been resolved to ensure the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is in first lien position. In the case of Section 184 Guaranteed Loans on Trust Land, evidence of Good and Marketable Title must be reported in the Title Status Report issued by the BIA, or other HUD approved document issued by the Tribe, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance and the document evidences the property interest rights.
Holder
means an entity that is named on the Promissory Note and any successor or assigns for the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan and has the right and responsibilities to enforce the Section 184 requirements and the Holder's interests arising under the mortgage or deed of trust.
Identity of Interest
means a sales transaction between family members, business partners, or other business affiliates.
Indian
means a person who is recognized as being an Indian or Alaska Native by a federally recognized Indian Tribe, a regional or village corporation as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, or a State recognized Tribe eligible to receive assistance under Title I of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA).
Indian Family
means one or more persons maintaining a household where at least one Borrower is an Indian.
Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund
or
Fund
means a fund established at the U.S. Department of Treasury for the purpose of providing loan guarantees under the Section 184 Program.
Lease or Leasehold Interest
means a written contract between a Borrower and a Tribe, entity, or individual, whereby the Borrower, as lessee, is granted a right of possession of Trust Land for a specific purpose and duration, according to applicable Tribal, Federal or State Law.
Lender Applicant
means:
(1) A financial institution engaging in mortgage lending that is eligible to participate in the Section 184 Program under § 1005.203 or § 1005.205;
(2) The financial institution has applied or will apply to HUD for approval to participate in the Section 184 Program; and
(3) Has not received approval from HUD.
Loan
means a loan application or mortgage loan that has not received a Loan Guarantee Certificate.
Loan Guarantee Certificate
means evidence of endorsement by HUD of a Loan for guarantee issued under § 1005.525.
Loss Mitigation
means an alternative to foreclosure offered by the Holder that is made available through the Servicer to the Borrower.
Non-Direct Guarantee Lender
means a Lender approved by HUD under § 1005.207 who has selected a level of program participation limited to Originating Section 184 Guaranteed Loans.
Month
or
monthly
means thirty days in a month, regardless of the actual number of days.
Origination, originate,
or
originating
means the process by which the Lender accepts a new loan application along
with all required supporting documentation. Origination does not include underwriting the loan.
Owner of Record
means, for fee simple properties, the owner of the property as shown on the records of the recorder in the county where the property is located. For Trust Land Properties, the current lessee or owner of property, as shown on the Title Status Report provided by the BIA or other HUD approved document issued by the Tribe, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance and the document evidences the property interest rights.
Partial Payment
means a Borrower payment of any amount less than the full amount due under the terms of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan at the time the payment is tendered.
Property
means one to four-family dwellings that meet the requirements for standard housing under § 1005.419 and located on Trust Land, land located in an Indian or Alaska Native area, or Section 184 Approved Program Area.
Section 184 Guaranteed Loan
is a Loan that has received a Loan Guarantee Certificate.
Section 184 Approved Program Area
means the Indian Housing Block Grant (IHBG) Formula Area as defined in 24 CFR 1000.302 or any other area approved by HUD, in which HUD may guarantee Loans.
Section 184 Program Guidance
means administrative guidance documents that may be issued by HUD, including but not limited to
Federal Register
documents, Dear Lender Letters, handbooks, guidebooks, manuals, and user guides.
Security
means any collateral authorized under existing Tribal, Federal, or State law.
Servicer
means a Direct Guarantee Lender that chooses to service Section 184 Guaranteed Loans or a Non-Direct Guarantee Lender or a financial institution approved by HUD under § 1005.705 to service Section 184 Guaranteed Loans.
Sponsor
means an approved Direct Guarantee Lender that enters into a relationship with a Non-Direct Guarantee Lender or another Direct Guarantee Lender (Sponsored Entity), whereby the Sponsor provides underwriting, closing, purchasing, and holding of Section 184 Guaranteed Loans and may provide servicing.
Sponsored Entity
means a Non-Direct Guarantee or Direct Guarantee Lender operating under an agreement with a Sponsor to Originate Section 184 Guaranteed Loans in accordance with § 1005.213.
Tax-exempt Bond Financing
means financing which is funded in whole or in part by the proceeds of qualified mortgage bonds described in section 143 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or any successor section, on which the interest is exempt from Federal income tax. The term does not include financing by qualified veterans' mortgage bonds as defined in section 143(b) of the Code.
Title Status Report
is defined in 25 CFR 150.2, as may be amended.
Tribe
means any Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601,
et seq.
), that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians pursuant to the Indian Self Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975.
Tribally Designated Housing Entity (TDHE)
means any entity as defined in the Indian Housing Block Grant Program under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self Determination Act at 25 U.S.C. 4103(22).
Trust Land
means land title which is held by the United States for the benefit of an Indian or Tribe or title which is held by a Tribe subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States or the Tribe. This definition shall include but is not limited to Tribal, individual, assigned trust, or restricted fee lands.
Upfront Loan Guarantee Fee
means a fee, paid by the Borrower at closing, collected by the Direct Guarantee Lender and remitted to HUD for the purposes of financing the Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund.

# Subpart B—Lender Eligibility and Requirements
§ 1005.201
Lender Applicant approval and participation.
(a)
Approval types.
The Section 184 Program has two types of Lender Applicant approvals:
(1) Lender Applicants deemed approved by statute, as described in § 1005.203; or
(2) Lender Applicants required to obtain secretarial approval under § 1005.205.
(b)
Lender Applicant participation.
In accordance with § 1005.207, Lender Applicants must select a level of program participation and submit a completed application package, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, to participate in the Section 184 Program.
§ 1005.203
Lender Applicants deemed approved by statute.
The following Lender Applicants are deemed approved by statute:
(a) Any mortgagee approved by HUD for participation in the single-family mortgage insurance program under title II of the National Housing Act;
(b) Any Lender Applicant whose housing loan under chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code are automatically guaranteed pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3702(d);
(c) Any Lender Applicant approved by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to make Guaranteed Loans for single family housing under the Housing Act of 1949; and
(d) Any other Lender Applicant that is supervised, approved, regulated, or insured by any other Federal agency of the United States, including but not limited to Community Development Financial Institutions.
§ 1005.205
Lender Applicants required to obtain Secretarial approval.
(a)
Lender Applicant application process.
Lender Applicants not meeting the requirements of § 1005.203 must apply to HUD for approval to participate in the Section 184 Program by submitting to HUD a completed application package, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance. The application must establish that the Lender meets the following qualifications:
(1)
Business form.
The Lender Applicant shall be a corporation or other chartered institution, a permanent organization having succession, or a partnership, organized under Tribal or State law.
(i)
Partnership requirements.
A partnership must meet the following requirements:
(A) Each general partner must be a corporation or other chartered institution consisting of two or more partners.
(B) One general partner must be designated as the managing general partner. The managing general partner shall also comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(C) and (D) of this section. The managing general partner must have as its principal activity the management of one or more partnerships, all of which are mortgage lending institutions or property improvement or manufactured home lending institutions and must have exclusive authority to deal directly with HUD on behalf of each partnership. Newly admitted partners must agree to the management of the partnership by the designated managing general partner. If the managing general partner withdraws or is removed from the partnership for any reason, a new managing general partner shall be substituted, and HUD must be notified in writing within 15 days of the substitution.
(C) The partnership agreement shall specify that the partnership shall exist for a minimum term of ten years, as required by HUD. All Section 184 Guaranteed Loans held by the partnership shall be transferred to a Lender Applicant approved under this part prior to the termination of the partnership. The partnership shall be specifically authorized to continue its existence if a partner withdraws.
(D) HUD must be notified in writing within 15 days of any amendments to the partnership agreement that would affect the partnership's actions under the Section 184 Program.
(ii)
Use of business name.
The Lender Applicant must use its HUD-registered business name in all advertisements and promotional materials related to the Guaranteed Loan. HUD-registered business names include any alias or
“doing business as” (DBA) on file with HUD. The Lender must keep copies of all print and electronic advertisements and promotional materials for a period of 2 years from the date that the materials are circulated or used to advertise.
(2)
Identification and certification of employees.
The Lender Applicant shall identify personnel and certify that they are trained and competent to perform their assigned responsibilities in mortgage lending, including origination, servicing, collection, and conveyance activities, and shall maintain adequate staff and facilities to Originate or service mortgages, or both, in accordance with applicable Tribal, Federal, or State requirements, to the extent it engages in such activities.
(3)
Identification and certification of officers.
The Lender Applicant shall identify officers and certify that all employees who will sign applications for Guaranteed Loans on behalf of the Lender Applicant shall be corporate officers or shall otherwise be authorized to bind the Lender in the Origination transaction. The Lender Applicant shall certify that only authorized person(s) report on guarantees, purchases, and sales of Guaranteed Loans to HUD for the purpose of obtaining or transferring guarantee coverage.
(4)
Financial statements.
The Lender Applicant shall:
(i) Furnish to HUD a copy of its most current annual financial statements, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(ii) Furnish such other information as HUD may request; and
(iii) Submit to examination of the portion of its records that relates to its activities under the Section 184 Program.
(5)
Quality control plan.
The Lender Applicant shall submit a written quality control plan in accordance with § 1005.217.
(6)
Identification of branch offices.
A Lender Applicant may maintain branch offices. A financial institution's branch office must be registered with HUD to originate or submit applications for Guaranteed Loans. The financial institution shall remain responsible to HUD for the actions of its branch offices.
(7)
Certification of conflict of interest policy.
The Lender Applicant must certify that the lender shall not pay anything of value, directly or indirectly, in connection with any Guaranteed Loan to any person or entity if such person or entity has received any other consideration from the seller, builder, or any other person for services related to such transactions or related to the purchase or sale of the property, except that consideration, approved by HUD, may be paid for services actually performed. The Lender Applicant shall not pay a referral fee to any person or organization.
(8)
Licensing certification.
A Lender Applicant shall certify that it has not been refused a license or has not been sanctioned by any Tribal, Federal, State, or other authority related to any lending activity.
(9)
Minimum net worth.
Irrespective of size, a Lender Applicant shall have a net worth of not less than $1 million, or amount as provided in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(10)
Identification of operating area.
The Lender Applicant must submit a list of states in which they wish to participate in the Section 184 Program and evidence of Lender Applicant's license to operate in those states, as may be prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(11)
Other qualifications.
Other qualifications by notice for comment.
(b)
HUD approval.
HUD shall review applications under § 1005.203(a) and any other publicly available information related to the Lender Applicant, its officers, and employees. If HUD determines the Lender Applicant meets the requirements for participation in this subpart, HUD shall provide written notification of the approval to be a Non-Direct Guarantee Lender.
(c)
Limitations on approval.
A Lender Applicant may only operate in the Section 184 Approved Program Area where they are licensed.
(d)
Denial of participation.
A Lender Applicant may be denied approval to become a Section 184 Lender if HUD determines the Lender Applicant does not meet the qualification requirements of this subpart. HUD will provide written notification of denial and
that decision may be appealed in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1005.909.
§ 1005.207
Lender Applicant participation options.
(a)
Levels of participation.
Lender Applicants must choose one of two levels of program participation, a Non-Direct Guarantee Lender or a Direct Guarantee Lender and submit an application to participate on a form prescribed by Section 184 Program guidance. A participation level must be selected by the Lender Applicant and approved by HUD before initiating any Section 184 Program activities.
(b)
Non-Direct Guarantee Lender.
(1) A Non-Direct Guarantee Lender originates loans.
(2) A Non-Direct Guarantee Lender must be a Sponsored Entity under § 1005.213.
(3) A Non-Direct Guarantee Lender must submit documentation supporting their eligibility as a Lender under § 1005.203 or approved by HUD under § 1005.205 and other documentation as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance to HUD through their Sponsor.
(c)
Direct Guarantee Lender.
(1) A Direct Guarantee Lender may originate, underwrite, close, service, purchase, hold, and sell Section 184 Guaranteed Loans.
(2) A Direct Guarantee Lender may sponsor Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders or other Direct Guarantee Lenders in accordance with § 1005.213.
(3) To become a Direct Guarantee Lender, Lender Applicants must submit additional documentation as provided in § 1005.209 and obtain HUD approval under § 1005.211.
§ 1005.209
Direct Guarantee Lender application process.
(a) For purposes of this section, Lender Applicants shall include Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders, Lender Applicants and financial institutions approved by HUD to only service under § 1005.705. Lender Applicants may apply to HUD for approval to participate in the Section 184 Program as a Direct Guarantee Lender. Lenders Applicants must submit a completed application package in accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance.
(b) To be approved as a Direct Guarantee Lender, a Lender Applicant must establish in its application that it meets the following qualifications:
(1) Eligibility under § 1005.203 or HUD approval under § 1005.205, as evidenced by approval documents and most recent recertification documents.
(2) Has a principal officer with a minimum of five years' experience in the origination of Loans guaranteed or insured by an agency of the Federal Government. HUD may approve a Lender applicant with less than five years of experience, if a principal officer has had a minimum of five years of managerial experience in the origination of Loans guaranteed or insured by an agency of the Federal Government.
(3) Has on its permanent staff an underwriter(s) that meets the following criteria:
(i) Two years' experience underwriting Loans guaranteed or insured by an agency of the Federal Government;
(ii) Is an exclusive employee of the Lender Applicant;
(iii) Authorized by the Lender Applicant to obligate the Lender Applicant on matters involving the origination of Loans;
(iv) Is registered with HUD as an underwriter and continues to maintain such registration; and
(v) Other qualifications as may be prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(c) The Lender Applicant must submit a list of States or geographic regions in which it is licensed to operate, evidenced by submitting the active approvals for each State or region, and declare its interest in participating in the Section 184 Program.
(d) The Lender Applicant must submit the quality control plan as required by its approving agency, modified for the Section 184 Program.
(e) If a Lender Applicant wants to service Section 184 Guaranteed Loans as Direct Guarantee Lender, they must meet qualifications and apply in accordance with § 1005.703.
§ 1005.211
Direct Guarantee Lender approval.
HUD shall review all documents submitted by a Lender Applicant under § 1005.209 and make a determination of conditional approval or denial.
(a)
Conditional approval.
Conditional approval is signified by written notification from HUD that the Lender Applicant is a conditionally approved Direct Guarantee Lender under the Section 184 Program subject to the following conditions:
(1) The Lender Applicant signs an agreement to comply with requirements of this part, and any applicable Tribal, Federal, or State law; and
(2) If applicable, the Lender Applicant submits a list of entities it currently sponsors under another Federal Loan program and intends to sponsor in the Section 184 Program. This list shall include the following for each Sponsored Entity:
(i) Contact information, including mailing address, phone number, and email address for corporate officers.
(ii) The Federal tax identification number (TIN) for the Sponsored Entity, and
(iii) Names and Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry numbers for all Loan originators and processors.
(3) The Lender Applicant certifies it monitors and provides oversight of Sponsored Entities to ensure compliance with this part, and any applicable Tribal, Federal, or State law.
(4) The Lender Applicant must, for each underwriter, submit ten test endorsement case binders, or a number prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, which meet the requirements of subparts D and E. Unsatisfactory performance by an underwriter during HUD's test case review may constitute grounds for denial of approval to participate as a Direct Guarantee Lender. If participation is denied, such denial is effective immediately and may be appealed in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1005.909; and
(5) The Lender Applicant will operate only in accordance with the Lender's licensing in Section 184 Approved Program Areas.
(b)
Final approval.
Final approval is signified by written notification from HUD that the Lender Applicant is an approved Direct Guarantee Lender under the Section 184 Program without further submission of test case endorsement case binders to HUD. HUD retains the right to request additional test cases as determined necessary.
(c)
Limitations on approval.
(1) A Lender Applicant may only operate as a Direct Guarantee Lender in accordance with the Lender's Tribal or State licensing and within Section 184 Approved Program Areas.
(2) The Lender Applicant must employ and retain an underwriter with the qualifications as provided in § 1005.209(b)(3). Failure to comply with this provision may subject the Lender Applicant to sanctions under § 1005.907.
(d)
Denial of participation.
A Lender Applicant may be denied approval to become a Direct Guarantee Lender if HUD determines the Lender Applicant does not meet the qualification requirements of this subpart. HUD will provide written notification of denial and that decision may be appealed in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1005.909.
§ 1005.213
Non-Direct Guarantee Lender application, approval, and Direct Guarantee Lender sponsorship.
(a)
Sponsorship.
A Sponsorship is a contractual relationship between a Sponsor and a Sponsored Entity.
(b)
General responsibility requirements of a Sponsor.
(1) The Sponsor must determine the eligibility of a Lender and submit to HUD, as prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance, a recommendation for approval under § 1005.207(b) or evidence of HUD approval under §§ 1005. 205(b) or 211(b).
(2) Upon HUD approval of eligibility under § 1005.207(b), or HUD acknowledgement of the evidence of HUD approval under § 1005.205(b) or § 1005.211(b), the Sponsor may enter into a Sponsorship with the Sponsored Entity.
(3) The Sponsor must notify HUD of changes in a Sponsorship within 10 days.
(4) The Sponsor must provide HUD-approved training to the Sponsored Entity on the requirements of the Section
184 Program before the Sponsored Entity may originate Section 184 Guaranteed Loans for the Sponsor.
(5) Each Sponsor shall be responsible to HUD for the actions of its Sponsored Entity in Originating Loans. If Tribal or State law requires specific knowledge by the Sponsor or the Sponsored Entity, HUD shall presume the Sponsor had such knowledge and shall remain liable.
(6) The Sponsor is responsible for conducting quality control reviews of the Sponsored Entity's origination case binders and Loan performance to ensure compliance with this part.
(7) The Sponsor is responsible for maintaining all records for Loans Originated by a Sponsored Entity in accordance with this part.
(c)
Responsibilities of the Sponsored Entity.
A Sponsor must ensure that a Sponsored Entity complies with this part and any other Tribal, Federal, or State law requirements.
§ 1005.215
Direct Guarantee Lender annual reporting requirements.
Direct Guarantee Lenders must submit an annual report on Loan performance, including reporting on all its Sponsored Entities, where applicable, along with any other required reporting under § 1005.903 and other such reports as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.217
Quality control plan.
(a) A quality control plan sets forth a Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee Lender, or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender's procedures for ensuring the quality of the Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender's Section 184 Guaranteed Loan Origination, underwriting, closing, and/or servicing, as applicable. The purpose of the quality control plan is to ensure the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee and non-Direct Guarantee Lender's compliance with Section 184 Program requirements and protect HUD and the entities from unacceptable or unreasonable risks. A Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee Lender, and Non-Direct Guarantee Lender must adopt and implement a quality control plan.
(b) A quality control plan must:
(1) Be maintained and updated, as needed, to comply with all applicable Section 184 Program requirements.
(2) Cover all policies and procedures, whether performed by the Lender or an agent, to ensure full compliance with all Section 184 Program requirements.
(3) Provide the Lender with information sufficient to adequately monitor and oversee the Lender's compliance and measure performance, as it relates to the Lender's Section 184 Guaranteed Loan activity.
(4) Require the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to retain all quality control plan related documentation, including selection criteria, review documentation, findings, and actions to mitigate findings, for a period of three years from initial quality control review, or from the last action taken to mitigate findings, whichever is later.
(5) Allow the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to use employees or agents to perform the quality control functions, so long as they do not directly participate in any Loan administration processes as outlined in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(6) Ensure the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender assumes full responsibility for any agent's conduct of quality control reviews.
(7) Require the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to train all staff, agents working with the Section 184 Program on Loan administration and quality control processes and provide staff access to all current Section 184 legal authorities and policy guidance. The Lender, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender must retain copies of training documentation for all staff working on the Section 184 Program in accordance with § 1005.219(d)(3). Failure to comply with the training and documentation requirements may subject the Direct Guarantee Lender and Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to sanctions in accordance with § 1005.907.
(8) Require the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to review a random statistical sample of rejected Loan applications within 90 days from the end of the month in which the decision was made. The reviews must be conducted no less frequently than monthly and with the goal of ensuring that the reasons given for the rejection were valid and each rejection received concurrence of an appropriate staff person with sufficient approval authority. The Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender must submit a report of this review in form and timeframe as prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(9) Ensure that the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender's employees and agents are eligible to participate in the Section 184 Program. Any employees or agents deemed ineligible shall be restricted from participating in the Section 184 Program.
(10) Require the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to refer any suspected fraud or material misrepresentation by any party whatsoever directly to HUD's Office of Inspector General (OIG) and the Office of Native American Programs.
(11) Require the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to report all material deficiencies and submit a corrective action plan to HUD within 30 days, or a timeframe as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(12) Require the Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to conduct appropriate Loan level quality control procedures, in accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance.
(13) Require the Lender Applicant to comply with any other administrative requirement as may be prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(c) Lender Applicants applying to be a Direct Guarantee Lender under § 1005.209, must submit a quality control plan in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and include the following additional requirements:
(1) Require the Lender Applicant to collect and forward all Loan Guarantee Fees in accordance with the Section 184 Program requirements, with sufficient documentation evidencing the timely collection and payment of the fees to HUD.
(2) Require the Lender Applicant to verify that the endorsement case binder is submitted to HUD for guarantee within required time frames.
(3) Require the Lender Applicant to review a random statistical sample of its endorsement case binders for potential fraud, material misrepresentations, or other findings on a quarterly basis. The Lender Applicant must investigate and determine if fraud, material misrepresentation or other findings occurred.
(4) Require the Lender Applicant to perform quality control review of its Sponsored Entities in the same manner and under the same conditions as required for the Lender's own operation.
(5) Where applicable, require the Sponsor to apply paragraph (b) of this section to its Sponsored Entities.
(d) All Sponsored Entities shall comply with paragraph (b) of this section and provide a quality control plan directly to their Sponsor in accordance with their sponsorship agreement.
§ 1005.219
Other requirements.
(a)
Tribal, Federal, and State law.
All Holders, Direct Guarantee Lenders, Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders and Servicers must comply with all applicable Tribal, Federal, and State laws which impact mortgage-related activities.
(b)
Dual employment.
All Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders and Direct Guarantee Lenders must require its employees to be exclusive employees, unless the Non-Direct Guarantee and Direct Guarantee Lender has determined that the employee's other employment, including any self-employment, does not create a Conflict of Interest.
(c)
Reporting requirements.
All Direct Guarantee Lenders must submit reports in accordance with § 1005.903. Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders must submit required reports to their Sponsor, under this part or any requirements as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(d)
Records retention.
Records retention requirements are as follows:
(1) Direct Guarantee Lenders must maintain an endorsement case binder for a period of three years beyond the date of satisfaction or maturity date of the Loan, whichever is sooner. However, where there is a payment of Claim, the endorsement case binder must be retained for a period of at least five years after the final Claim has been paid. Section 184 Program Guidance shall prescribe additional records retention time depending on the circumstances of the Claim.
(2) All Direct Guarantee Lenders and Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders must retain personnel files of employees for one year beyond the employee's separation.
(3) All Direct Guarantee Lenders and Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders must follow the applicable records retention requirements imposed by applicable Tribal, Federal, and State laws.
(4) Direct Guarantee Lenders and Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders must maintain the quality control plan records for a period prescribed in § 1005.217(b)(4).
(e)
Minimum level of lending on Trust Land.
(1) Direct Guarantee Lenders must actively market, Originate, underwrite, and close Loans on Trust Land. A Sponsor must ensure its Sponsored Entities actively market and Originate Loans on Trust Land. HUD may impose a minimum level of lending on Trust Land, which may be adjusted periodically, through publication in the
Federal Register
.
(2) Failure to meet the minimum level of lending on Trust Land may result in sanctions in accordance with §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
(3) HUD may grant exceptions for Direct Guarantee Lenders and Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders licensed and doing business in a State or States with limited Trust Lands. The process to request the exception will be prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.221
Business change reporting.
(a) Within a timeframe as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, Direct Guarantee Lenders shall provide written notification to HUD, in such a form as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance of:
(1) All changes in the Direct Guarantee Lender or Sponsored Entity's legal structure, including, but not limited to, mergers, acquisitions, terminations, name, location, control of ownership, and character of business;
(2) Staffing changes with senior leadership and Loan underwriters for Direct Guarantee Lenders and Sponsored Entities; and
(3) Any sanctions by another supervising entity.
(b) Failure to report changes within a reasonable timeframe prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance may result in sanctions in accordance with §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
§ 1005.223
Direct Guarantee Lender Annual recertification requirements.
(a) All Direct Guarantee Lenders are subject to annual recertification on a date and form as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(b) With each annual recertification, Direct Guarantee Lenders must submit updated contact information, continued eligibility documentation and other pertinent materials as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, including but not limited to:
(1) A certification that it has not been refused a license or sanctioned by any Tribe, State, or Federal entity or other governmental authority related to any lending activity;
(2) A certification that the Direct Guarantee Lender is in good standing with any Tribe, State, or Federal entity in which it will perform Direct Guarantee Lender activities; and
(3) Renewal documents and certification of continued eligibility from an authorizing entity listed in § 1005.203.
(4) Lenders approved under § 1005.205 must submit documentation supporting continued eligibility as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(c) All Sponsored Entities shall comply with this requirement and provide the annual recertification documentation directly to their Sponsor in accordance with their sponsorship agreement.
(d) Direct Guarantee Lenders must also submit the following in accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance:
(1) A certification that the Direct Guarantee Lender continues to meet the direct guarantee program eligibility requirements in accordance with § 1005.209;
(2) A list of all Sponsored Entities with which the Direct Guarantee Lender has a sponsorship relationship, and a certification of their continued eligibility; and
(3) All reports.
(e) Direct Guarantee Lenders must retain documentation related to the continued eligibility of their Sponsored Entities for a period as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(f) Direct Guarantee Lenders may request an extension of the recertification deadline, but such a request must be presented to HUD at least 30 days before the recertification deadline.
(g) HUD will review the annual recertification submission and may request any further information required to determine recertification.
(h) HUD will provide written notification of approval to continue participation in the Section 184 Program or denial. A denial may be appealed pursuant to § 1005.909.
(1) If an annual recertification is not submitted by a reasonable deadline prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance, HUD may subject the Direct Guarantee Lender to sanctions under § 1005.907.
(2) [Reserved]
§ 1005.225
Program ineligibility.
A Lender Applicant, Direct Guarantee Lender or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender may be deemed ineligible for Section 184 Program participation when HUD becomes aware that the entity or any officer, partner, director, principal, manager or supervisor, loan processor, loan underwriter, or loan originator of the entity was:
(a) Suspended, debarred, under a limited denial of participation (LDP), or otherwise restricted under 2 CFR part 2424, or under similar procedures of any other Federal agency;
(b) Indicted for, or have been convicted of, an offense that reflects adversely upon the integrity, competency, or fitness to meet the responsibilities of the Lender, Direct Guarantee Lender or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender to participate in the title I or title II programs of the National Housing Act, or Section 184 Program;
(c) Found to have unresolved findings as a result of HUD or other governmental audit, investigation, or review;
(d) Engaged in business practices that do not conform to generally accepted practices of prudent Lender Applicants, Direct or Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders or that demonstrate irresponsibility;
(e) Convicted of, or have pled guilty or nolo contendere to, a felony related to participation in the real estate or mortgage loan industry during the 7-year period preceding the date of the application for licensing and registration, or at any time preceding such date of application, if such felony involved an act of fraud, dishonesty, or a breach of trust or money laundering;
(f) In violation of provisions of the Secure and Fair Enforcement Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5101,
et seq.
) or any applicable provision of Tribal or State law; or
(g) In violation of 12 U.S.C. 1715z-13a.

# Subpart C—Lending on Trust Land
§ 1005.301
Tribal legal and administrative framework.
(a)
Tribal requirements.
(1) A Tribe seeking to allow eligible Borrowers to place a mortgage lien on Trust Land under the Section 184 Program must apply to HUD for approval to participate in the program.
(2) Tribes electing to make Trust Land available under the Section 184 Program must provide to HUD a legal and administrative framework for leasing, foreclosure, and eviction on Trust Land to protect the interests of the Borrower, Tribe, Direct Guarantee Lender, and HUD.
(3) When Tribes are notified of the Borrower's default in accordance with § 1005.501(j) or when the Tribe receives notice of Tribal right of first refusal pursuant to § 1005.759, Tribes must assist, where practical, in facilitating
loss mitigation and disposition, such as assisting with identifying potential purchasers or identifying Tribal members who may wish to assume the loan, encouraging Borrower to execute Lease-in-Lieu, and providing other general assistance to the Borrower.
(4) Tribes must notify HUD in writing when the Tribe determines a property is vacant or abandoned and the property is not secured by the Servicer or HUD.
(b)
Legal and administrative framework.
A Tribe may enact legal procedures through Tribal council resolution or any other recognized legislative action. These procedures must be legally enforceable and include the following requirements:
(1)
Foreclosure and assignment.
When a Borrower is in default, and is unwilling or unable to successfully complete loss mitigation in accordance with subpart G of this part; and Servicer either completes First Legal Action against the Borrower, or assigns the loan to HUD after completing Tribal first right of refusal in accordance with § 1005.759:
(i) The Tribe must demonstrate that a foreclosure will be processed through the legal systems having jurisdiction over the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan. A foreclosure must be held in a court of competent jurisdiction, which includes Federal courts, when HUD forecloses on the property.
(ii) Foreclosure ordinances must allow for the legal systems with jurisdiction to assign Borrower's property interest to HUD or Holder.
(iii) Where applicable, if the Holder assigns the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to HUD without initiating or completing the foreclosure process, or the property becomes vacant and abandoned during the loss mitigation or foreclosure process, the Tribe may assign the lease to HUD to facilitate disposition of the property, so long as the Tribe provides due process to the lessee in compliance with Tribal law.
(2)
Property disposition.
Once a lease is vacated or reassigned, or the property interest has otherwise been conveyed to HUD or the Holder, the Tribe or the TDHE shall work with HUD or the Holder to sell the property to an eligible party.
(3)
Eviction.
The Tribe must have a legal and administrative framework implementing eviction procedures, allowing for the expedited removal of the Borrower in default, all household residents, and any unauthorized occupants of the property. Eviction procedures must enable the Servicer or the Tribe to secure possession of the property. Eviction may be required upon:
(i) The completion of a foreclosure;
(ii) The involuntary termination of the lease;
(iii) The reassignment of the lease or conveyance of the property interest to HUD or the Holder; or
(iv) The sale of the property.
(4)
Lien priority.
Section 184 Guaranteed Loans must be in a first lien position securing the property.
(i) To ensure that each Section 184 Guaranteed Loan holds a first lien position, the Tribe must enact an ordinance that either:
(A) Provides for the satisfaction of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan before any and all other obligations; or
(B) Follows State law to determine the priority of liens against the property. If a Tribal jurisdiction spans two or more states, the State in which the property is located is the applicable State law.
(ii) For lien to be considered valid on Trust Land, the lien must be:
(A) Approved by the Tribe, and BIA as applicable; and
(B) Recorded by the Tribe and/or BIA, as applicable.
(5)
Lease provisions for Trust Land.
Where applicable, the lease provisions for Trust Land must meet the following requirements:
(i) Tribes may use a HUD model lease for Section 184 Guaranteed Loan lending on Trust Land. The Tribe may make modifications to the HUD model lease, with the approval of HUD and, as applicable, BIA.
(ii) Tribes may draft their own lease in compliance with Federal requirements and contain mandatory lease terms and language as prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance, with approval of HUD and, as applicable, BIA. At a minimum the lease must:
(A) Identify lessor;
(B) Identify the lessee;
(C) Provide a legal description of the land and identify the property address covered by the lease;
(D) The lease must have a minimum term of 50 years unless an extended term is approved by the Secretary. For refinances or lease transfers the lease must have a remaining term which exceeds the maturity date of the Loan by a minimum of ten years, or other period as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(E) The lease must be executed by all interested parties to be enforceable;
(F) The Tribe shall require HUD consent for any lease termination or assignment of the lease when the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is secured by the property.
(G)(
1
) The lease must contain the following provision: “In the case of a default on a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan:
(
i
) The lessee may assign the lease and deliver possession of the leased premises, including any improvements thereon, to HUD; or
(
ii
) The lessor may assign the lease and deliver possession of the leased premises, including any improvements thereon, to HUD when the Tribe has provided due process to lessee in compliance with Tribal law.
(
2
) HUD may transfer this lease and the leased premises to a successor lessee if the successor lessee is another member of the Tribe or Tribal entity, as approved by the Tribe.”
(H) Lease language as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(I) The lease must also provide that in the event of foreclosure, the lease will not be subject to any forfeiture or reversion and will not be otherwise subject to termination.
§ 1005.303
Tribal application.
A Tribe shall submit an application on a form prescribed by HUD. The application must include a copy of the Tribe's foreclosure, eviction, lease, priority lien ordinances, all cross-referenced ordinances in those sections, and any other documents in accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.305
Approval of Tribal application.
HUD shall review applications under § 1005.303 and where all requirements of § 1005.301 are met, HUD shall provide written notification of the approval of the Tribe to participate in the Section 184 Program. If HUD determines the application is incomplete, or the documents submitted do not comply with the requirements of this subpart or any process prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance, HUD will work with the Tribe to cure the deficiencies before there is a denial of the application.
§ 1005.307
Tribal annual recertification.
A Tribe shall recertify annually to HUD whether it continues to meet the requirements of this subpart, on a form and by a deadline prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance. Recertification shall include Tribal certification of no changes to the Tribe's foreclosure, eviction, lease, and lien priority ordinances. The Tribe shall provide any updated contact information and similar information that may be required under Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.309
Tribal duty to report proposed changes and actual changes.
Based on the timeframe as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, the Tribe must notify HUD of any proposed changes in the Tribe's foreclosure, eviction, lease, and lien priority ordinances or contact information. Tribes shall obtain HUD approval of the changes in the foreclosure, eviction, lease, and lien priority ordinances. HUD will provide written notification to the Tribe of HUD's review of the proposed ordinance changes and advise the Tribe whether the updated documents meet the requirements of this subpart.
§ 1005.311
HUD notification of any lease default.
In cases where the lessee is in default under the lease for any reason, the lessor shall provide written notification to HUD within 30 days of the lease default.
§ 1005.313
Tribal reporting requirements.
The Tribe shall provide accurate reports and certifications to HUD, as may be prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.

# Subpart D—Underwriting

# Eligible Borrowers
§ 1005.401
Eligible Borrowers.
(a)
Eligible Borrowers.
Eligible Borrowers are Indian Families, Tribes, or TDHEs.
(b)
Documentation.
Indian Family Borrowers must document their status as American Indian or Alaska Native through evidence as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(c)
Limitation on the number of loans.
An Indian Family Borrower is limited to one Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, for primary residence, at a time unless the Indian Family Borrower is a non-occupant co-Borrower on one other Section 184 Guaranteed Loan. An Indian Family Borrower and/or non-occupant co-Borrower must meet all other applicable requirements of this subpart and any guidance provided in Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.403
Principal Residence.
(a)
Principal Residence.
Means the dwelling where the Indian Family Borrower maintains as a permanent place of abode. An Indian Family Borrower may have only one Principal Residence at any one time.
(b)
Occupancy requirement.
An Indian Family Borrower must occupy the property as a Principal Residence. Borrowers who are a TDHE or a Tribe do not need to occupy the property as a Principal Residence and are not subject to the occupancy requirement.
(c)
Non-occupant co-Borrower.
A co-Borrower who does not occupy the property as a principal resident is permitted and is not subject to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. A non-occupant co-Borrower must be related by blood, or an unrelated individual who can document evidence of a family-type, longstanding, and substantial relationship not arising out of the loan transaction. A non-occupant co-Borrower must meet all other applicable requirements of this subpart and any requirements as may be established in Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.405
Borrower residency status.
(a) An eligible Borrower who is an Indian must be:
(1) A U.S. citizen;
(2) A lawful permanent resident alien; or
(3) A non-permanent resident alien.
(b) Documentation must be provided to the Direct Guarantee Lender to support lawful residency status as defined in the Immigration and Nationality Act, codified at 8 U.S.C. 1101,
et seq.
§ 1005.407
Relationship of income to loan payments.
(a)
Adequacy of Borrower gross income.
(1) All Borrowers must establish, in accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance, that their income is and will be adequate to meet:
(i) The periodic payments required by the loan to be guaranteed by the Section 184 Program; and
(ii) Other long-term obligations.
(2) In cases where there is a non-occupant Co-Borrower, the occupying Borrower must meet a minimum qualifying threshold, in accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance.
(b)
Non-discrimination.
Determinations of adequacy of Borrower income under this section shall be made in a uniform manner without regard to age, race, color, national origin, religion, sex (including gender identity and sexual orientation), familial status, disability, marital status, source of income of the Borrower, location of the property.
§ 1005.409
Credit standing.
(a) A Borrower must have a general credit standing satisfactory to HUD. A Direct Guarantee Lender must not use a Borrower's credit score when evaluating the Borrower's credit worthiness. The Direct Guarantee Lender must analyze the Borrower's credit history and payment pattern to determine credit worthiness.
(b) If a Borrower had a previous default on a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan which resulted in a Claim payment by HUD, the Borrower shall be subject to a 7-year waiting period or other period
as may be prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.411
Disclosure and verification of Social Security and Employer Identification Numbers or Tax Identification Number.
All Borrowers must meet applicable requirements for the disclosure and verification of Social Security, Employer Identification Numbers, or Tax Identification Numbers.

# Eligible Properties
§ 1005.413
Acceptable title.
To be considered acceptable title, a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan must be secured by an interest in real estate held in fee simple or other property interest on Trust Land. Where the title evidences a lease that is used in conjunction with the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan on Trust Land, the lease must comply with relevant provisions of § 1005.301.
§ 1005.415
Sale of property.
(a)
Owner of Record requirement.
The property must be or have been purchased from the Owner of Record and the transaction may not involve or had not involved any sale or assignment of the sales contract.
(b)
Supporting documentation.
The Direct Guarantee Lender shall obtain and submit to HUD documentation verifying that the seller is the Owner of Record as part of the application for a loan guarantee under the Section 184 Program. Documentation must conform with the requirements set out in Section 184 Program Guidance. This documentation may include, but is not limited to, a property ownership history report from the State or local government, a copy of the recorded deed or other HUD approved document issued by the Tribe, as provided by Section 184 Program Guidance and the document evidences the property interest rights, as permitted by this subpart from the seller, or other documentation (such as a copy of a property tax bill, title commitment, or binder) demonstrating the seller's ownership.
(c)
Time restrictions on re-sales
—(1)
General.
The eligibility of a property for a Loan guaranteed by HUD is dependent on the time that has elapsed between the date the seller acquired the property (based upon the date of settlement) and the date of execution of the sales contract that will result in the HUD guarantee (the re-sale date). The Direct Guarantee Lender shall obtain documentation verifying compliance with the time restrictions described in this paragraph and must submit this documentation to HUD as part of the application for the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, in accordance with § 1005.501.
(2)
Re-sales occurring 90 days or less following acquisition.
If the re-sale date is 90 days or less following the date of acquisition by the seller, the property is not eligible under the Section 184 Program.
(3)
Re-sales occurring between 91 days and 180 days following acquisition.
(i) If the re-sale date is between 91 days and 180 days following acquisition by the seller, the property is generally eligible under the Section 184 Program.
(ii) However, HUD will require that the Direct Guarantee Lender obtain additional documentation if the re-sale price is 100 percent over the purchase price. Such documentation must include a second appraisal from a different appraiser. The Direct Guarantee Lender may also document its Loan file to support the increased value by establishing that the increased value results from the rehabilitation of the property.
(iii) Additional documentation may be required, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(4)
Authority to address property re-sales occurring between 181 days and 12 months following acquisition.
(i) If the re-sale date is more than 181 days after the date of acquisition by the seller, but before the end of the twelfth month after the date of acquisition, the property is eligible under the Section 184 Program.
(ii) However, HUD may require that the Direct Guarantee Lender provide additional documentation to support the re-sale value of the property if the re-sale price is 5 percent or greater than the lowest sales price of the property during the preceding 12 months (as evidenced by the contract of sale). At HUD's discretion, such documentation
must include, but is not limited to, a second appraisal from a different appraiser. HUD may exclude re-sales of less than a specific dollar amount from the additional value documentation requirements.
(iii) If the additional value documentation supports a value of the property that is more than 5 percent lower than the value supported by the first appraisal, the lower value will be used to calculate the maximum principal loan amount under § 1005.443. Otherwise, the value supported by the first appraisal will be used to calculate the maximum principal loan amount.
(iv) Additional value documentation may be prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(5)
Re-sales occurring more than 12 months following acquisition.
If the re-sale date is more than 12 months following the date of acquisition by the seller, the property is eligible under the Section 184 Program.
(d)
Exceptions to the time restrictions on sales.
The time restrictions on sales described in paragraph (b) of this section do not apply to:
(1) Sales by HUD of real estate owned (REO) properties under 24 CFR part 291 and of single-family assets in revitalization areas pursuant to section 204 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1710);
(2) Sales by an agency of the United States Government of REO single family properties pursuant to programs operated by such agencies;
(3) Sales of properties by Tribes, TDHEs, State, or local governments, or Eligible Nonprofit Organizations approved to purchase HUD REO single family properties at a discount with resale restrictions;
(4) Sales of properties that were acquired by the sellers by death, devise, or intestacy;
(5) Sales of properties purchased by an employer or relocation agency in connection with the relocation of an employee;
(6) Sales of properties by Tribes, TDHEs, State and local government agencies; and
(7) Only upon announcement by HUD through issuance of a notice, sales of properties located in areas designated by the President as federally declared disaster areas. The notice will specify how long the exception will be in effect.
(8) HUD may approve other exceptions on a case-by-case basis.
§ 1005.417
Location of property.
At the time a loan is guaranteed, the property must be for residential use under Tribal, State, or local law and be located within a Section 184 Approved Program Area.
§ 1005.419
Requirements for standard housing.
(a)
General standards.
Each dwelling unit located on a property guaranteed under the Section 184 Program must:
(1) Be decent, safe, sanitary, and modest in size and design;
(2) Conform with International Building Code, applicable general construction standards for the region, or other code as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance;
(3) Contain a heating system that:
(i) Has the capacity to maintain a minimum temperature in the dwelling of 65 degrees Fahrenheit during the coldest weather in the area;
(ii) Is safe to operate and maintain;
(iii) Delivers a uniform distribution of heat; and
(iv) Conforms to any applicable Tribal heating code, or if there is no applicable Tribal code, an appropriate local, State, or International Building Code, or other code as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(4) Contains a plumbing system that:
(i) Uses a properly installed system of piping;
(ii) Includes a kitchen sink and partitional bathroom with lavatory, toilet, and bath or shower; and
(iii) Uses water supply, plumbing, and sewage disposal systems that conform to any applicable Tribal building code or, if there is no applicable Tribal code, the minimum building standards established by the appropriate local or State code, or the International Building Code, or other code as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance;
(5) Contain an electrical system using wiring and equipment properly installed to safely supply electrical energy for adequate lighting and for operation of appliances that conforms to
any applicable Tribal code or, if there is no applicable Tribal code, an appropriate local, State, or International Building Code, or other code as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance;
(6) Meets minimum square footage requirements and be not less than:
(i) 570 square feet in size, if designed for a family of not more than 4 persons;
(ii) 850 square feet in size, if designed for a family of not less than 5 and not more than 7 persons;
(iii) 1020 square feet in size, if designed for a family of not less than 8 persons; or
(iv) Current locally adopted standards for size of dwelling units, documented by the Direct Guarantee Lender.
(v) Upon the written request of a Tribe, or TDHE, HUD may waive the minimum square footage requirements under paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(7) Conform with the energy performance requirements for new construction established by HUD under section 526(a) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1735f-4(a)).
(b)
Additional requirements.
HUD may prescribe any additional requirements to permit the use of various designs and materials in housing acquired under this part.
(c)
One to four dwelling unit properties.
Properties containing one to four dwelling units:
(1) Must meet local zoning requirements;
(2) For 2-4 dwelling unit properties, units may be attached or detached; and
(3) Must have all dwelling unit(s) located on the property and included in the parcel legal description recorded under the loan.
(d)
Lead-based paint.
The relevant requirements of the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4821-4846), the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851-4856), and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 35, subparts A, B, H, J, K, M, and R shall apply.
(e)
Environmental review procedures.
(1) The regulations in 24 CFR 1000.20 apply to an environmental review for Trust Land and for fee land within an Indian reservation, and on fee land owned by the Indian Tribe outside of the Tribe's Indian reservation boundaries, in connection with a Loan guaranteed under this part. That section permits a Tribe to choose to assume environmental review responsibility.
(2) Before HUD issues a commitment to guarantee any loan, or before HUD guarantees a loan if there is no commitment, the Tribe or HUD must comply with environmental review procedures to the extent applicable under 24 CFR part 58 or 50, as appropriate.
(3) If the Loan involves proposed or new construction, HUD will require the Direct Guarantee Lender to submit a signed Builder's Certification of Plans, Specifications and Site (Builder's Certification). The Builder's Certification must be in a form prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance and must cover:
(i) Flood hazards;
(ii) Noise;
(iii) Explosive and flammable materials storage hazards;
(iv) Runway clear zones/clear zones;
(v) Toxic waste hazards;
(vi) Other foreseeable hazards or adverse conditions (
i.e.,
rock formations, unstable soils or slopes, high ground water levels, inadequate surface drainage, springs, etc.) that may affect the health and safety of the occupants or the structural soundness of the improvements.
(4) The Builder's Certification must be provided to the appraiser for reference before the performance of an appraisal on the property.
(f)
Flood insurance
—(1)
Special Flood Hazard Areas.
A property is not eligible for a Section 184 loan guarantee if a residential building and related improvements to the property are located within a Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) designated by a FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map unless insurance under the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), or notwithstanding 24 CFR 58.6(a), private flood insurance in lieu of NFIP insurance is secured for the property.
(2)
Eligibility for new construction in SFHAs.
If any portion of the dwelling, related structures or equipment essential to the value of the property and subject to flood damage is located
within an SFHA, the property is not eligible for a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan unless the Direct Guarantee Lender obtains from FEMA a final Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) or final Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) that removes the property from the SFHA; or obtains a FEMA National Flood Insurance Program Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) prepared by a licensed engineer or surveyor. The elevation certificate must document that the lowest floor including the basement of the residential building, and all related improvements/equipment essential to the value of the property, is built at or above the 100-year flood elevation in compliance with the NFIP criteria, and flood insurance must be obtained., notwithstanding 24 CFR 58.6(a),
(3)
Required flood insurance amount.
Where flood insurance is required under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, flood insurance, whether NFIP insurance or private flood insurance in lieu of NFIP, must be maintained for the life of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan in an amount that is not less than the lessor of:
(i) The project cost less the estimated land cost;
(ii) The outstanding principal balance of the loan; or,
(iii) For NFIP insurance only, the maximum amount available with respect to the property improvements;
(4)
Required documentation.
The Direct Guarantee Lender must obtain a Life of Loan Flood Certification for all Properties. If applicable, the Direct Guarantee Lender must provide all eligibility documentation obtained under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(g)
Restrictions on property within Coastal Barrier Resources System.
In accordance with the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, a property is not eligible for a Section 184 Loan Guarantee if the improvements are or are proposed to be located within the Coastal Barrier Resources System.
(h)
Airport hazards
—(1)
Existing Construction.
If a property is Existing Construction and is located within a Runway Clear Zone (also known as a Runway Protection Zone) at a civil airport or within a Clear Zone at a military airfield, the Direct Guarantee Lender must obtain a Borrower's acknowledgement of the hazard.
(2)
New Construction.
If a New Construction property is located within a Runway Clear Zone (also known as a Runway Protection Zone) at a civil airport or within a Clear Zone at a military airfield, the Direct Guarantee Lender must reject the property for loan guarantee. Properties located in Accident Potential Zone 1 (APZ 1) at a military airfield may be eligible for a Section 184 loan guarantee provided that the Direct Guarantee Lender determines that the property complies with Department of Defense guidelines.
§ 1005.421
Certification of appraisal amount.
A Section 184 Guaranteed Loan must be accompanied by a sales contract satisfactory to HUD, executed by the seller, whereby the seller agrees that before any sale of the property, the seller will deliver to the purchaser of the property a certification of the appraisal, in a form satisfactory to HUD, setting forth the amount of the appraised value of the property.
§ 1005.423
Legal Restrictions on Conveyance.
(a) Legal Restrictions on Conveyance means any provision in any legal instrument, law, or regulation applicable to the Borrower or the mortgaged property, including but not limited to a lease, deed, sales contract, declaration of covenants, declaration of condominium, option, right of first refusal, will, or trust agreement, that attempts to cause a conveyance (including a lease) made by the Borrower to:
(1) Be void or voidable by a third party;
(2) Be the basis of contractual liability of the Borrower for breach of an agreement not to convey, including rights of first refusal, pre-emptive rights or options related to Borrower efforts to convey;
(3) Terminate or subject to termination all or a part of the interest held by the Borrower in the property if a conveyance is attempted;
(4) Be subject to the consent of a third party;
(5) Be subject to limits on the amount of sales proceeds retainable by the seller; or
(6) Be grounds for acceleration of the Guaranteed Loan or increase in the interest rate.
(b) Section 184 Guaranteed Loans shall not be subject to any Legal Restrictions on Conveyance, except for restrictions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) A lease or any other legal document that restricts the assignment of interest in properties held in trust or otherwise restricted to an eligible Indian Family.
(2) A mortgage funded through tax-exempt bond financing and includes a due-on-sale provision in a form approved by HUD that permits the Direct Guarantee Lender to accelerate a mortgage that no longer meets Federal requirements for tax-exempt bond financing or for other reasons acceptable to HUD. A mortgage funded through tax-exempt bond financing shall comply with all form requirements prescribed under this subpart and shall contain no other provisions designed to enforce compliance with Federal or State requirements for tax-exempt bond financing.
(3) A mortgaged property subject to protective covenants which restrict occupancy by, or transfer to, persons of a defined population if:
(i) The restrictions do not have an undue effect on marketability as determined in the original plan.
(ii) The restrictions do not constitute illegal discrimination and are consistent with the Fair Housing Act and all other applicable nondiscrimination laws under Tribal, Federal, State, or local law, where applicable.
(4) HUD shall require that the previously approved restrictions automatically terminate if the lease or title to the mortgaged property is transferred by foreclosure, deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure, or if the loan is assigned to HUD.
§ 1005.425
Rental properties.
(a)
When a Borrower is an Indian Family.
A Section 184 Guaranteed Loan may be used to purchase, construct, rehabilitate, or refinance a property, which may contain up to four dwelling units. The Borrower must occupy one unit on the property as a Principal Residence and may rent the additional units.
(b)
When the Borrower is a Tribe or TDHE.
There is no limit to the number of properties a Tribe or TDHE may purchase or own with a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan(s) on or off Trust Land. However, the Tribe or TDHE must meet all applicable Section 184 program requirements.
§ 1005.427
Refinancing.
(a)
Refinance eligibility.
HUD may permit a Borrower to refinance any qualified mortgage, including an existing Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, so long as the Borrower and property meet all Section 184 Program requirements.
(b)
Types of refinances.
HUD may guarantee a Rate and Term refinance, a Streamline refinance, or a Cash-Out refinance, consistent with paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section.
(c)
General requirements.
All types of refinances are subject to the following requirements:
(1) The term of the refinancing may not exceed a term of 30 years.
(2) The Borrower must have a payment history on the existing mortgage that is acceptable to HUD.
(3) The Direct Guarantee Lender may not require a minimum principal amount to be outstanding on the loan secured by the existing mortgage.
(4) If an Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee was financed as part of the existing Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, no refund will be given. However, the maximum amount of the refinancing loan computed in accordance with § 1005.443 may be increased by the amount of the Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee associated with the new refinancing loan and exceed the applicable Section 184 Guaranteed Loan limit as established by HUD for an area pursuant to § 1005.441.
(5) The new loan must meet all other applicable Section 184 requirements, including maximum loan to value ratios, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(d)
Rate and Term Refinance Transaction.
(1) Rate and term refinance is the refinancing of an existing mortgage for the purpose of changing the interest rate or term, or both, of a loan
without advancing new funds on the loan, with the exception of allowable closing costs.
(2) A Rate and Term Refinance Transaction must meet the following requirements:
(i) The new loan must be in an amount that does not exceed the lesser of the original principal amount of the existing mortgage; or the sum of the unpaid principal balance of the existing mortgage plus loan closing charges and allowable fees approved by HUD.
(ii) The new loan must result in a reduction in regular monthly payments by the Borrower, except when refinancing a mortgage for a shorter term will result in an increase in the Borrower's regular monthly payments.
(iii) The new Loan is not subject to paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section for an existing mortgage used to construct the property and where the property has been completed for less than one year. The new loan must be in an amount not to exceed the unpaid principal balance plus loan closing charges and allowable fees approved by HUD, plus, at Borrower's option, additional construction costs paid in cash by the Borrower, that were not included in the original construction contract.
(e)
Streamline Refinance Transaction.
Streamline Refinance Transaction refers to the refinance of an existing Section 184 Guaranteed Loan requiring limited Borrower credit documentation and underwriting.
(1) The new loan must be in an amount that does not exceed the unpaid principal balance of the existing Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.
(2) The new loan with an appraisal may be in the amount equal to the unpaid principal balance of the existing mortgage plus Loan closing charges and allowable fees approved by HUD. The new loan must be subject to an appraisal.
(f)
Cash-out refinance transaction.
(1) A Cash-out refinance transaction is when the new Loan is made for an amount larger than the existing mortgage's unpaid principal balance, utilizing the property's equity.
(2) A Cash-out refinance Loan amount cannot exceed a maximum loan to value ratio, as established by HUD.
(3) A Borrower may elect to receive a portion of equity in the form of cash in an amount up to a maximum allowed amount as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(4) All cash advances, except cash amounts to the Borrower, must be used for approved purposes in accordance with HUD and BIA requirements, and must be supported by verified documentation.
(5) The Cash-out refinance must meet all other applicable Section 184 Program requirements.
§ 1005.429
Eligibility of Loans covering manufactured homes.
A Loan covering a manufactured home (as defined in 24 CFR part 3280), shall be eligible for a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan when the following requirements have been met:
(a)
For manufactured homes located on a fee simple property.
(1) A manufactured home, as erected on the property, must be installed in accordance with 24 CFR part 3286; conform with property standards under § 1005.419; and shall have been constructed in accordance with 24 CFR part 3280, as evidenced by the certification label.
(2) The Loan shall cover the manufactured home(s) and site, shall constitute a loan on a property, and classified and taxed as real estate, as applicable.
(3) In the case of a manufactured home which has not been permanently erected on a site for more than one year prior to the date of the application for the Loan Guarantee Certificate:
(i) A manufactured home shall be erected on a site-built permanent foundation and shall be permanently attached thereto by anchoring devices adequate for all loads in accordance with 24 CFR part 3286. The towing hitch or running gear, which includes axles, brakes, wheels, and other parts of the chassis that operate only during transportation, shall have been removed. The finished grade level beneath the manufactured home shall be at least two feet above the 100-year return frequency flood elevation. The site, site improvements, and all other
features of the property not addressed by the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards shall meet or exceed applicable requirements of the Minimum Property Standards (MPS).
(ii) The space beneath a manufactured home shall be enclosed by continuous foundation-type construction designed to resist all forces to which it is subject without transmitting forces to the building superstructure. The enclosure shall be adequately secured to the perimeter of the manufactured home and be constructed of materials that conform to MPS requirements for foundations.
(iii) A manufactured home shall be braced and stiffened before it leaves the factory to resist racking and potential damage during transportation.
(iv) Section 1005.433 is modified to the extent provided in this paragraph. Applications relating to the guarantee of loans under this paragraph (a) must be accompanied by an agreement in a form satisfactory to HUD executed by the seller or manufacturer or such other person as HUD may require, agreeing that in the event of any sale or conveyance of the property within a period of one year beginning with the date of initial occupancy, the seller, manufacturer, or such other person will, at the time of such sale or conveyance, deliver to the purchaser or owner of such property the manufacturer's warranty on a form prescribed by HUD. This warranty shall provide that the manufacturer's warranty is in addition to and not in derogation of all other rights and remedies the purchaser or owner may have, and a warranty in form satisfactory to HUD warranting that the manufactured home, the foundation, positioning, and anchoring of the manufactured home to its permanent foundation, and all site improvements are constructed in substantial conformity with the plans and specifications (including amendments thereof or changes and variations therein which have been approved in writing by HUD) on which HUD has based its valuation of the property. The warranty shall also expressly state that the manufactured home sustained no hidden damage during transportation, and if the manufactured home is a double-wide, that the sections were properly joined and sealed. The warranty must provide that upon the sale or conveyance of the property and delivery of the warranty, the seller, builder, or such other person will promptly furnish HUD with a conformed copy of the warranty establishing by the purchaser's receipt thereon that the original warranty has been delivered to the purchaser in accordance with this section.
(4) In the case of a manufactured home which has been permanently erected on a site for more than one year prior to the date of the application for the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan:
(i) A manufactured home shall be permanently anchored to and supported by permanent footings and shall have permanently installed utilities that are protected from freezing. The space beneath the manufactured home shall be a properly enclosed crawl space.
(ii) The site, site improvements, and all other features of the property not addressed by 24 CFR parts 3280 and 3286 shall meet or exceed HUD requirements. The finished grade level beneath the manufactured home shall be at or above the 100-year return frequency flood elevation.
(b)
For manufactured homes located on Trust Land.
Manufactured homes on Trust Land shall meet manufactured home installation standards pursuant to Tribal laws, if any. In the absence of Tribal laws, the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1), (3), and (4) of this section shall apply and other such requirements as established by Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.431
Acceptance of individual residential water purification.
If a property does not have access to a continuing supply of safe and potable water as part of its plumbing system without the use of a water purification system, the requirements of this section apply. The Direct Guarantee Lender must provide appropriate documentation with the submission for a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to address each of the requirements of this section.
(a)
Equipment.
Water purification equipment must be approved by a nationally recognized testing laboratory acceptable to Tribal, State, or local health authority.
(b)
Certification by Tribal, State, or local health authority.
A Tribal, State, or local health authority certification must be submitted to HUD, which certifies that a point-of entry or point-of-use water purification system is used for the water supply, the treatment equipment meets the requirements of the Tribal, State, or local health authority, and has been determined to meet Tribal, State, or local health authority quality standards for drinking water. If neither Tribal, State, nor local health authority standards are applicable, then quality shall be determined in accordance with standards set by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act. (EPA standards are prescribed in the National Primary Drinking Water requirements, 40 CFR parts 141 and 142.)
(c)
Borrower notices and certification.
(1) The prospective Borrower must have received written notification, when the Borrower signs a sales contract, that the property does not have access to a continuing supply of safe and potable water without the use of a water purification system to remain safe and acceptable for human consumption.
(2) Prior to final ratification of the sales contract, the Borrower must have received:
(i) A water safety report identifying specific contaminants in the water supply serving the property, and the related health hazard arising from the presence of those contaminants.
(ii) A written good faith estimate of the maintenance and replacement costs of the equipment necessary to assure continuing safe drinking water.
(3) The prospective Borrower must sign a certification, acknowledging the required notices have been received by the Borrower, in the form prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, at the time the application for mortgage credit approval is signed by the Direct Guarantee Lender. The required certification must be submitted to HUD with the request for the Loan Guarantee Certificate.
§ 1005.433
Builder warranty.
(a) Applications relating to proposed construction must be accompanied by an agreement in a form satisfactory to HUD, executed by the seller or builder or such other person as HUD may require, and agreeing that in the event of any sale or conveyance of the property, within a period of one year beginning with the date of initial occupancy, the seller, builder, or such other person will, at the time of such sale or conveyance, deliver to the purchaser or owner of such property a warranty in a form satisfactory to HUD, warranting that the property is constructed in substantial conformity with the plans and specifications (including amendments thereof or changes and variations therein which have been approved in writing by HUD) on which HUD has based on the valuation of the property.
(b) Such agreement must provide that upon the sale or conveyance of the property and delivery of the warranty, the seller, builder, or such other person will promptly furnish HUD with a confirmed copy of the warranty, establishing by the purchaser's receipt thereon that the original warranty has been delivered to the purchaser in accordance with this section.

# Eligible Loans
§ 1005.435
Eligible collateral.
A Section 184 Guaranteed Loan may be secured by any collateral authorized under existing Federal law or applicable State or Tribal law. The collateral must be sufficient to cover the amount of the loan, as determined by the Direct Guarantee Lender and approved by HUD. Improvements on Trust Lands may be considered as eligible collateral. Trust Land cannot be considered as part of the eligible collateral.
§ 1005.437
Loan provisions.
(a)
Loan form.
(1) The Loan shall be in a form meeting the requirements of HUD. HUD may prescribe loan closing documents. For each case in which HUD does not prescribe loan closing documents, HUD shall require specific language in the loan which shall be
uniform for every loan. HUD may also prescribe the language or substance of additional provisions for all loans, as well as the language or substance of additional provisions for use only in particular jurisdictions.
(2) Each Loan shall also contain any provisions necessary to create a valid and enforceable security interest under Tribal law or the laws of the jurisdiction in which the property is located.
(b)
Loan multiples.
A Loan, in whole dollars, shall be in an amount not to exceed the maximum principal loan amount (as calculated under § 1005.443) for the area where the property is located.
(c)
Payments.
The Loan payments shall:
(1) Be due on the first of the month;
(2) Contain complete Amortization provisions in accordance with § 1005.453 and an Amortization period not in excess of the term of the loan; and
(3) Provide for payments to principal and interest to begin no later than the first day of the month, 60 days after the date the loan is executed. For closings taking place within the first seven days of the month, interest credit is acceptable.
(d)
Maturity.
The Loan shall have a repayment term of not more than the maximum period as approved by HUD and fully amortized.
(e)
Property standards.
The Loan must be a first lien upon the property that conforms with the requirements for standard housing under § 1005.419.
(f)
Disbursement.
The entire principal amount of the Loan must have been disbursed to the Borrower or to the Borrower's creditors for the Borrower's account and with the Borrower's consent.
(g)
Disbursement for construction advances.
HUD may guarantee loans from which advances will be made during construction when all applicable Section 184 Program requirements are met and all the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The Direct Guarantee Lender and Borrower execute a building Loan agreement, in the form prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, setting forth the terms and conditions under which advances will be made.
(2) The advances may be made only as provided in the building loan agreement.
(3) The principal amount of the loan is held by the Direct Guarantee Lender in an interest-bearing account, trust, or escrow for the benefit of the Borrower, pending advancement to the Borrower or Borrower's creditors as provided in the building loan agreement;
(4) The loan shall bear interest on the amount advanced to the Borrower or the Borrower's creditors and on the amount held in an account or trust for the benefit of the Borrower.
(h)
Changes to the Loan Agreement.
Notwithstanding paragraph (g)(2) of this section, changes to the building loan Agreement must be approved and documented by the Direct Guarantee Lender prior to the construction advance.
(i)
Documentation.
Direct Guarantee Lender must submit a construction completion package to HUD, as prescribed in Section 184 Program guidance.
(j)
Prepayment privilege.
The Loan must contain a provision permitting the Borrower to prepay the Loan in whole or in part at any time. The Loan may not provide for the payment of any fee or penalty on account of such prepayment.
§ 1005.439
Loan lien.
(a)
First lien.
A Borrower must establish that, after the loan offered for guarantee has been recorded, the property will be free and clear of all liens other than such loan, and that there will not be outstanding any other unpaid obligations contracted in connection with the loan transaction or the purchase of the property, except obligations that are secured by property or collateral owned by the Borrower independently of the property.
(b)
Junior lien.
The property may be subject to a junior lien held by a Tribe, Direct Guarantee Lender, TDHE, Federal, State, local government, or an Eligible Nonprofit Organization. Where applicable, a junior lien when intended to be utilized in conjunction with a Section 184 loan, must be evaluated in the Section 184 underwriting process by the Direct Guarantee underwriter in
accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance. In cases where a junior lien is recorded after the Section 184 Loan Guarantee Certificate is issued, the junior lien must comply with this section.
(1) Periodic payments, if any, shall be collected monthly and be substantially the same;
(2) The monthly Loan payments for the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan and the junior lien shall not exceed the Borrower's reasonable ability to pay, as determined by HUD;
(3) The sum of the principal amount of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan and the junior lien shall not exceed the loan-to-value limitation applicable to the Section 184 Program, and shall not exceed the loan limit for the area, except as otherwise permitted by HUD;
(4) The repayment terms shall not provide for a balloon payment before ten years unless approved by HUD;
(5) The junior lien must become due and payable on sale or refinancing of the secured property covered by the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, unless otherwise approved by HUD; and
(6) The junior lien shall contain a provision permitting the Borrower to prepay the junior lien in whole or in part at any time and shall not require a prepayment penalty.
(c)
Junior liens to reduce Borrower monthly payments.
With prior HUD acceptance, the property may be subject to a junior lien advanced to reduce the Borrower's monthly payments on the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan following the date it is guaranteed, if the junior lien meets the following requirements:
(1) The junior lien shall not provide for any payment of principal or interest until the property securing the junior lien is sold or the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is refinanced, at which time the junior lien shall become due and payable.
(2) The junior lien shall not provide for any payment of principal or interest so long as the occupancy requirements are met; and, where applicable, shall provide for forgiveness of the junior lien amount at the end of the term of the junior lien.
(d)
Junior liens related to tax-exempt bond financing and low-income housing tax credits.
HUD approval shall be required when Borrower seeks to encumber property with a junior lien pursuant to § 1005.423(b).
§ 1005.441
Section 184 Guaranteed Loan limit.
The Section 184 Guaranteed Loan limit is the level set by HUD for the Section 184 Approved Program Area and is based upon the location of the property. The limit that is in effect on the date the Section 184 Program case number is issued in accordance with § 1005.445 shall apply, regardless of the closing date. The limit shall be revised periodically by HUD and published in Section 184 Program guidance.
§ 1005.443
Loan amount.
(a)
Minimum required investment.
The Borrower is required to make a minimum investment in the property. This investment must come from the Borrower's own funds, gifts, or Tribal, State, or local funds awarded to the Borrower. The minimum investment in the property is the difference between the sales price and the base loan amount.
(b)
Calculating base loan amount.
(1) The base loan amount is determined by calculating:
(i) 97.75 percent of the appraised value of the property or the Acquisition Cost, whichever is less; or
(ii) 98.75 percent of the lesser of the appraised value or sales price when the appraised value or sales price is $50,000 or less.
(2) The base loan amount cannot exceed the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan limits established under § 1005.441.
(c)
Maximum principal loan amount.
The maximum principal loan amount is the base loan amount and the Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee. The Section 184 Guaranteed Loan limit may only be exceeded by the amount of the Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee.
(d)
Minimum principal loan amount.
A Direct Guarantee Lender may not require a minimum loan amount for a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.
§ 1005.445
Case numbers.
(a) Section 184 case numbers may only be obtained by a Direct Guarantee Lender.
(b) To obtain a case number, the Direct Guarantee Lender must:
(1) Have an active loan application from a Borrower(s) with an identified property;
(2) Provide evidence of borrower eligibility, as prescribed in § 1005.401(a);
(3) Verify that the property is located in a Section 184 Approved Program Area;
(4) Confirm that the Loan does not exceed the Section 184 Loan limit; and
(5) Submit Loan specific information as prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(c) Case numbers are automatically cancelled after a period as identified in Section 184 Program Guidance, unless a Firm Commitment is issued, or an extension is granted by HUD in accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance prior to the expiration of the case number.
§ 1005.447
Maximum age of Loan documents.
Documents reviewed at underwriting and at loan closing may not be older than the 120 days, or another time period prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance. Documents whose validity for underwriting purposes is not affected by the passage of time, such as divorce decrees or tax returns, are not subject to time limitations.
§ 1005.449
Qualified mortgage.
A Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, except for mortgage transactions exempted under 15 U.S.C. 1639c(b)(3)(ii), is afforded safe harbor as a qualified mortgage that meets the ability-to-repay requirements in 15 U.S.C. 1639c(a).
§ 1005.451
Agreed interest rate.
The loan shall bear interest at the rate agreed upon by the Direct Guarantee Lender and the Borrower and determined by HUD to be reasonable. The agreed upon interest rate may not exceed the rate generally charged in the area for mortgage loans not guaranteed or insured by any agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government, or a rate determined by HUD, whichever is lower. The agreed upon interest rate must not take into consideration a Borrower's credit score in accordance with § 1005.409 and must not be based on risk-based pricing.
§ 1005.453
Amortization provisions.
The loan must contain complete Amortization provisions satisfactory to HUD, requiring payments due on the first day of each month by the Borrower. The sum of the principal and interest payments in each month shall be substantially the same.

# Underwriting
§ 1005.455
Direct guarantee underwriting.
(a)
Underwriter due diligence.
A Direct Guarantee Lender shall exercise the same level of care which it would exercise in obtaining and verifying information for a Loan in which the Direct Guarantee Lender would be entirely dependent on the property as security to protect its investment. Direct Guarantee Lender procedures that evidence such due diligence shall be incorporated as part of the quality control plan required under § 1005.219. Compliance with HUD-prescribed underwriting guidelines shall be the minimum standard of due diligence in underwriting the Loans. Failure to comply with HUD-prescribed underwriting guidelines may result in sanctions in accordance with §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
(b)
Evaluating the Borrower(s) qualifications.
The Direct Guarantee Lender shall evaluate the Borrower's credit characteristics, the adequacy and stability of the Borrower's income to meet the periodic payments under the loan and all other obligations, the adequacy of the Borrower's available assets to close the transaction, the Borrower's management capacity and grant performance, if applicable, and render an underwriting decision in accordance with applicable regulations, policies, and procedures.
(c)
Assumption.
Applications for the assumption of an existing Section 184 Guaranteed Loan shall be underwritten using the same Borrower eligibility and underwriting standards in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1005.457
Appraisal.
(a) A Direct Guarantee Lender shall have the property appraised in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements, including but not limited to the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice, Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691-1691f), and the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-19). HUD may establish alternative requirements to Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice, when necessitated by location and availability of an appraiser, and publish such alternative requirements in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(b) A Direct Guarantee Lender must select an appraiser identified on the Federal Housing Administration Appraiser Roster, compiled in accordance with 24 CFR part 200, subpart G. The Direct Guarantee Lender shall not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex (including gender identity and sexual orientation), disability, familial status, national origin, or age in the selection of an appraiser. HUD may establish guidance regarding the alternatives to the use of an appraiser identified on the Federal Housing Administration Appraiser Roster, when necessitated by a rural or remote location and the availability of an appraiser.
(c) A Direct Guarantee Lender and an appraiser must ensure that an appraisal and related documentation satisfy Federal Housing Administration, Fannie Mae, or Freddie Mac appraisal requirements, and both bear responsibility for the quality of the appraisal in satisfying such requirements.
(d) A Direct Guarantee Lender that submits, or causes to be submitted, an appraisal or related documentation that does not satisfy requirements under paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section may be subject to sanctions by HUD pursuant to §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
(e) The validity period of appraisals is 180 days or as provided by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(f) Where the initial appraisal report will be more than 180 days at closing, an appraisal update may be performed to extend the appraisal validity period prior to closing, in accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance. The updated appraisal is valid for one year after the effective date of the initial appraisal report; and
(g) The appraisal shall meet other guidance as prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.459
Loan submission to HUD for endorsement.
(a)
Deadline for submission.
Within 60 days after the date of closing the loan, a Direct Guarantee Lender must submit an endorsement case binder to HUD, in accordance with § 1005.503.
(b)
Late submission.
If the endorsement case binder is submitted past 60 days, the Direct Guarantee Lender must include, as part of the case binder, a late endorsement request with supporting documentation, affirming:
(1) The loan is not currently in default;
(2) All escrow accounts for taxes, hazard insurance, and monthly Loan Guarantee Fees are current;
(3) Neither the Direct Guarantee Lender nor Servicer provided the funds to bring or keep the loan current or to bring about the appearance of acceptable payment history; and
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(3) of this section, with prior approval from HUD, Direct Guarantee Lender or Servicer may provide funds to bring or keep the loan current.
§ 1005.461
HUD issuance of Firm Commitment.
HUD may underwrite and issue a Firm Commitment when it is in the interest of HUD.

# Subpart-E—Closing and Endorsement

# Closing
§ 1005.501
Direct Guarantee Lender closing requirements.
The Direct Guarantee Lender shall close the loan in accordance with the following:
(a)
Chain of title/interest.
(1) For fee simple Properties, the Direct Guarantee Lender must obtain evidence of all prior ownership within 12 months of the case number assignment date. The Direct Guarantee Lender must review
the evidence of prior ownership to determine any undisclosed Identity of Interest transactions.
(i) If an Identity of Interest is discovered, the Direct Guarantee Lender must review for any possible Conflict of Interest.
(ii) As a requirement of closing, all Borrowers must execute a Section 184 Borrower's Certification, addressing any Identity of Interest and Conflict of Interest.
(2) For Trust Land transactions, the requirements for the determination of ownership title interest shall be prescribed by HUD in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(b)
Title/Title Status Report.
The Direct Guarantee Lender must ensure that all objections to title binder/initial certified Title Status Report have been cleared, and any discrepancies have been resolved, to ensure that the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan will be in first security interest position.
(c)
Closing in compliance with Direct Guarantee Lender approval.
The Direct Guarantee Lender must instruct the settlement agent to close the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan on the same terms or on the same assumptions in which it was underwritten and approved.
(d)
Closing in the Direct Guarantee Lender's name.
A Section 184 Guaranteed Loan must close in the name of the Direct Guarantee Lender issuing the underwriting approval.
(e)
Required HUD documents at closing.
The Direct Guarantee Lender must use the forms and language as prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(f)
Projected escrow.
The Direct Guarantee Lender must establish an escrow account in accordance with § 1005.717 and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and any other escrow requirements as prescribed under applicable Tribal and Federal laws and regulations.
(g)
Closing costs and fees.
The Direct Guarantee Lender may charge the Borrower reasonable and customary fees in accordance with § 1005.515.
(h)
Closing date.
The closing date must occur before the expiration of the Firm Commitment.
(i)
Per diem interest and interest credits.
The Direct Guarantee Lender may collect per diem interest from the closing date to the date Amortization begins. Alternatively, the Direct Guarantee Lender may begin Amortization up to 7 days prior to the closing date and provide a per diem interest credit. Any per diem interest credit may not be used to meet Borrower's minimum required investment. Per diem interest must be computed using a factor of 1/365th of the annual rate.
(j)
Authorization of Tribal notification in the event of default.
At closing and on a form provided by HUD, the Borrower must elect whether to authorize the Direct Guarantee Lender or Servicer to notify the Tribe in the event of a default, as prescribed in the Section 184 Program Guidance.
(k)
Signatures.
Direct Guarantee Lender must ensure that the note, security instrument, and all closing documents are signed by the required parties.
(l)
Other requirements.
Direct Guarantee Lender shall close the loan in accordance with any applicable Tribal, State, or Federal requirements. Direct Guarantee Lenders must execute any other documents as may be required by applicable Tribal, Federal, or State law.
§ 1005.503
Contents of endorsement case binder.
The Direct Guarantee Lender's endorsement case binder shall be submitted in a format as prescribed by HUD and contain the documents meeting the requirements of § 1005.501 and any other documents supporting the Direct Guarantee Lender's underwriting determination.
§ 1005.505
Payment of Upfront Loan Guarantee Fee.
The Direct Guarantee Lender, shall provide evidence of the remittance of the Upfront Loan Guarantee Fee, as required under § 1005.607, in accordance with a process provided by HUD in Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.507
Borrower's payments to include other charges and escrow payments.
(a) The Direct Guarantee Lender must include in the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan monthly payment the following charges and escrow payments:
(1) The ground rents, if any, when the Tribe or TDHE does not have an existing withholding or payment policy in place;
(2) Annual Loan Guarantee Fee, as prescribed in § 1005.607, if any;
(3) The estimated amount of all taxes;
(4) Special assessments, if any;
(5) Flood insurance premiums, if flood insurance is required;
(6) Fire and other hazard insurance premiums, except master policy premiums payable to a condominium association or a Tribe and paid directly by the Borrower:
(7) Other charges as allowed in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(b) The Section 184 Guaranteed Loan shall further provide that such payments shall be held by the Direct Guarantee Lender in a manner satisfactory to HUD for the purpose of paying such ground rents, taxes, assessments, and insurance premiums before the same become delinquent, for the benefit and account of the Borrower. The Section 184 Guaranteed Loan must also make provisions for adjustments in case the estimated amount of such taxes, assessments, and insurance premiums shall prove to be more, or less, than the actual amount thereof so paid by the Borrower. Such payments shall be held in an escrow subject to § 1005.717.
(c) The Borrower shall not be required to pay premiums for fire or other hazard insurance which protects only the interests of the Direct Guarantee Lender, or for life or disability income insurance, or fees charged for obtaining information necessary for the payment of property taxes. The foregoing does not apply to charges made or penalties exacted by the taxing authority, except that a penalty assessed, or interest charged, by a taxing authority for failure to timely pay taxes or assessments shall not be charged by the Direct Guarantee Lender to the Borrower if the Direct Guarantee Lender had sufficient funds in escrow for the account of the Borrower to pay such taxes or assessments prior to the date on which penalty or interest charges are imposed.
§ 1005.509
Application of payments.
All monthly payments to be made by the Borrower to the Servicer shall be added together, and the aggregate amount shall be paid by the Borrower each month in a single payment by the Borrower, in accordance with the loan documents. The Servicer shall apply the Borrower's funds in accordance with § 1005.715.
§ 1005.511
Late fee.
When the monthly Section 184 Guaranteed Loan payment is 15 or more days in arrears, the Servicer may collect from Borrower a late fee of up to four percent of the overdue payment of principal and interest, or any other limit as established by HUD through public notice with an opportunity for comment. The late fee provision must appear on the note executed at closing.
§ 1005.513
Borrower's payments when Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is executed.
The Borrower must pay to the Direct Guarantee Lender, upon execution of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, where applicable, the:
(a) One-time Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee or any portion payable pursuant to § 1005.603; and
(b) All other applicable monthly charges pursuant to § 1005.507, including the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee pursuant to § 1005.607 covering the period from the closing date to the due date of the first installment payment under the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.
§ 1005.515
Charges, fees, or discounts.
(a) The Direct Guarantee Lender must ensure that all fees charged and disclosure requirements at closing to the Borrower comply with all applicable Tribal, Federal, State, and local laws.
(b) The Direct Guarantee Lender may collect from the Borrower the following charges, fees, or discounts at closing:
(1) A charge to compensate the Direct Guarantee Lender for expenses incurred in originating and closing the Loan. HUD may establish limitations on the amount of any such charge in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(2) Reasonable and customary amounts, but not more than the amount actually paid by the Direct Guarantee Lender, for any of the following items:
(i) Recording fees and recording taxes or other charges incident to recordation;
(ii) Credit report;
(iii) Survey, if required by Direct Guarantee Lender or Borrower;
(iv) Title examination;
(v) Title insurance, if any;
(vi) Fees paid to an appraiser or inspector approved by HUD for the appraisal and inspection, if required, of the property;
(vii) Reasonable and customary charges in the nature of discounts; and
(viii) Interest calculations in accordance with § 1005.501(i).
(ix) Such other reasonable and customary charges as may be authorized by HUD.
(c) All charges, fees or discounts are subject to review by HUD after endorsement.
§ 1005.517
Certificate of nondiscrimination by the Direct Guarantee Lender.
(a) Where applicable, a Direct Guarantee Lender shall certify to HUD as to each of the following:
(1) That neither the Direct Guarantee Lender, nor anyone authorized to act for the Direct Guarantee Lender, will refuse to sell, after the making of a bona fide offer, or refuse to negotiate for the sale otherwise make unavailable or deny the property covered by the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to any eligible purchaser or discriminate in making a loan or engaging in a residential real estate-related transaction (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 3605) because of age, race, color, religion, sex (including gender identity and sexual orientation), disability, familial status, or national origin, source of income of the Borrower, location of the property, or because the Borrower exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, except as provided by law.
(2) That any restrictive covenant, other than permissible restrictions on Trust Land, on such property relating to race, color, religion, sex (including gender identity and sexual orientation), disability, familial status, or national origin is hereby illegal, unenforceable, or void.
(b) That civil action for preventative relief may be brought by the Attorney General in any appropriate U.S. District Court against any person responsible for a violation of this certification.

# Endorsement and Post-Closing
§ 1005.519
Creation of the contract.
The loan shall be a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan from the date of the issuance of a Loan Guarantee Certificate. The Direct Guarantee Lender is thereafter bound by the regulations in this subpart with the same force and to the same extent as if a separate contract had been executed relating to the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, including the provisions of the regulations in this subpart and 12 U.S.C. 1715z-13a.
§ 1005.521
Pre-endorsement review and requirements.
Direct Guarantee Lender must complete a pre-endorsement review of the endorsement case binder. This review must be conducted by staff not involved in the originating, processing, or underwriting of the Loan. This review must also confirm that the loan was underwritten by an approved Direct Guarantee Lender. The endorsement case binder must contain all documentation relied upon by the Direct Guarantee Lender to justify its decision to approve the Loan in accordance with subpart D of this part. Upon finalizing the pre-endorsement review, the Direct Guarantee Lender must certify that all required documents are submitted and meet the requirements of § 1005.503.
§ 1005.523
HUD pre-endorsement review.
(a) Direct Guarantee Lender shall submit to HUD within 60 days after the date of the closing of the Loan, or such
additional time as permitted by HUD, the endorsement case binder.
(b) Upon submission by a Direct Guarantee Lender of the endorsement case binder containing those documents required by § 1005.503, HUD will review the documents to ensure that the Loan meets all statutory, regulatory, and administrative requirements, including but not limited to:
(1) There is no fee, late charge, or interest due to HUD;
(2) The Loan was not in default when submitted for the Loan Guarantee Certificate, unless otherwise approved by HUD, or if submitted for guarantee more than 60 days after the date of closing, the loan shows an acceptable payment history; and
(3) The loan was underwritten by an approved Direct Guarantee Lender.
(c) Upon review, if HUD determines the loan to meet program requirements, HUD will issue a Loan Guarantee Certificate. If HUD determines the loan is ineligible, HUD will provide the Direct Guarantee Lender with a written determination and specify any available corrective actions that may be available. If there is information indicating that any certification or required document is false, misleading, or constitutes fraud or misrepresentation on the part of any party, or that the loan fails to meet a statutory or regulatory requirement, HUD will conduct a complete audit of the endorsement case binder. Repeated submission of deficient endorsement case binders may subject the Direct Guarantee Lender to sanctions or civil money penalties pursuant to §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
§ 1005.525
Loan Guarantee Certificate.
(a) HUD shall issue a Loan Guarantee Certificate as evidence of the guarantee when HUD completes a review of the Direct Guarantee Lender's endorsement case binder and determines the Loan complies with all applicable Section 184 Program requirements. HUD's issuance of the Loan Guarantee Certificate does not preclude HUD from conducting post-endorsement reviews under § 1005.527, seeking indemnification under § 1005.529, or imposing sanctions from originating Direct Guarantee Lender, Holder and/or Servicer under §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
(b) HUD may issue a Loan Guarantee Certificate for a loan involving a security interest in Trust Land before HUD receives the required trailing documents from BIA, where applicable, if the Direct Guarantee Lender agrees to indemnify HUD. The indemnification agreement between HUD and the Direct Guarantee Lender will terminate only upon receipt of the Trailing Documents in a form and manner acceptable to HUD. Trailing Documents may include the following documents:
(1) A final certified TSR that identifies that the BIA or Tribe approved and recorded the mortgage instrument and residential lease related to the Section 184 Loan, as applicable;
(2) A certified true copy of the recorded mortgage instrument;
(3) A certified true copy of the recorded lease, if applicable;
(4) A certified true copy of the recorded executed mortgage release documents for all prior mortgages identified on the initial certified TSR, if applicable; and
(5) A certified true copy of any BIA approved and executed subordination agreements;
(c) The Loan Guarantee Certificate is conclusive evidence of the eligibility of the Loan for guarantee under this part. Such evidence will be incontestable in the hands of the bearer and the full faith and credit of the United States is pledged to the payment of amounts agreed to be paid by HUD as security for such obligations.
(d) This section may not be construed to preclude HUD from conducting a post-endorsement review. With respect to the original Direct Guarantee Lender, HUD may establish defenses against the original Direct Guarantee Lender based on fraud or material misrepresentation. This section may not be construed to bar HUD from establishing partial defenses to the amount payable on the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.
§ 1005.527
Post-endorsement review.
(a) HUD may review an endorsement case binder at any time, including but not limited to a quality control review of all documents in § 1005.503.
(b) Within three business days of a request by HUD, the Direct Guarantee Lender must make available for review, or forward to HUD, copies of the identified endorsement case binder(s).
(c) A Direct Guarantee Lender's failure to provide HUD access to any files may be grounds for sanctions in accordance with §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
(d) Based on HUD's review under paragraph (a) of this section, if HUD determines that:
(1) The Loan does not satisfy the requirements of subpart F of this part;
(2) The Direct Guarantee Lender or Sponsored Entity committed fraud or a material misrepresentation; or
(3) The Direct Guarantee Lender or Sponsored Entity had known or should have known of fraud or a material misrepresentation in violation of this part, such that the Loan should not have been approved by the Direct Guarantee Lender;
(e) HUD may request indemnification from the originating Direct Guarantee Lender and impose sanctions on the Direct Guarantee Lender and Sponsored Entity pursuant to §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
§ 1005.529
Indemnification.
(a) When HUD conducts a pre- or post-endorsement review and HUD determines there is an underwriting deficiency where the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan should not have been approved, HUD may request the originating Direct Guarantee Lender to indemnify HUD.
(b) Underwriting deficiencies with respect to the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan may include but is not limited to fraud or misrepresentation by the originating Direct Guarantee Lender.
(c) HUD will notify the originating Direct Guarantee Lender in writing when an indemnification is required.
(d) Under an indemnification, the originating Direct Guarantee Lender must reimburse HUD when a subsequent Holder files a Claim and HUD suffers a financial loss.
(e) If the originating Direct Guarantee Lender fails to indemnify HUD, HUD may impose sanctions pursuant to §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.

# Subpart F—Section 184 Guaranteed Loan Fees
§ 1005.601
Scope and method of payment.
HUD shall charge a one-time Section 184 Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee, and a recurring Annual Loan Guarantee Fee where applicable, which will be collected by a Direct Guarantee Lender or Servicer as required by §§ 1005.603 and 1005.607 and remitted to HUD as required by §§ 1005.605 and 1005.609. The fees collected by the Direct Guarantee Lender or Servicer on behalf of HUD shall be payable to HUD in cash, in the manner prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.603
Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee.
At settlement, the Direct Guarantee Lender will collect from the Borrower a one-time Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee in an amount not exceeding three percent of the principal obligation of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan. The amount will be set by HUD through a notice in the
Federal Register
.
§ 1005.605
Remittance of Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee.
The Direct Guarantee Lender shall remit the Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee to HUD within 15 days after settlement, using the payment system as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance. The Direct Guarantee Lender shall provide an account reconciliation of the Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee in the time and manner as may be prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.607
Annual Loan Guarantee Fee.
(a)
Percentage of Annual Loan Guarantee Fee.
Where applicable the Servicer must collect a monthly installment for the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee from the Borrower in an amount not exceeding one percent of the principal obligation of the loan. The percentage used to calculate the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee amount will be prescribed by notice in the
Federal Register
.
(b)
Payment of Annual Loan Guarantee Fee.
Where applicable, the Section 184
Guaranteed Loan shall require monthly payments by the Borrower to the Servicer in an amount equal to one-twelfth of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee, payable by the Servicer to HUD in accordance with the Amortization Schedule issued with the Loan approval.
(c)
Amortization Schedule.
The amount of the Borrower's monthly installment will be based on an Amortization Schedule as prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.609
Remittance of Annual Loan Guarantee Fee.
(a) Where applicable, monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee shall be due and payable to HUD no later than the 15th day of each month, beginning in the month in which the Borrower is required to make the first monthly loan payment. Monthly payments of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee must be submitted using a HUD prescribed payment system, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(b) Where applicable, subject to the exception in paragraph (d) of this section, the Servicer shall continue to collect from the Borrower, as established by a schedule provided in § 1005.607(b) and pay HUD the monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee, without taking into account Borrower's default, loss mitigation, prepayments, agreements to postpone payments, or agreements to recast the loan. Any changes to the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee will be published in the
Federal Register
.
(c) Where applicable, the Servicer shall adjust the monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee in accordance the schedule provided in § 1005.607(b). Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Servicer shall refund to the Borrower any overpayment of Annual Loan Guarantee Fees collected from the Borrower, due to a delayed adjustment of the Loan Guarantee Fee, within 30 days of the overpayment. Failure to refund the Borrower within this timeframe will result in a penalty in accordance with § 1005.611.
(d) Where applicable, the Servicer shall cease collecting the monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee when the amortized loan to value ratio equals an amount less than the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee termination threshold loan-to-value ratio as established by the Secretary in the
Federal Register
and established by a schedule provided in § 1005.607(b). Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Servicer shall refund to the Borrower any overpayment of Annual Loan Guarantee Fees collected when the loan-to-value ratio falls below the threshold established by the Secretary in the
Federal Register,
within 30 days of the overpayment. Failure to refund the Borrower within this timeframe will result in penalty in accordance with § 1005.611.
(e) Annual Loan Guarantee Fees paid, if any, in accordance with the schedule provided in § 1005.607(b) shall not be refundable to the Borrower.
(f) Where applicable, if the Servicer submits the monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee to HUD after the due date, the amount paid must include the required payment of penalties pursuant to § 1005.611(c).
(g)(1) When transfer of servicing occurs in accordance with § 1005.707:
(i) The schedule of monthly installment payments provided in § 1005.607(b) must be provided to the new Servicer; and
(ii) The account reconciliation of the Upfront Guarantee Fee and Annual Loan Guarantee Fee due and remitted to HUD must be provided to the new Servicer.
(2) The new Servicer is responsible for compliance with all requirements of this part, including, but not limited to, any outstanding Annual Loan Guarantee Fee payments and penalties owed to HUD, or any Annual Loan Guarantee Fee adjustments or refunds due to the Borrower.
(3) If a transfer results in missed monthly installment(s) of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee, the new Servicer shall pay the overdue installment(s) in a lump sum to HUD within 30 days of acquisition of the loan and include any applicable penalties in accordance with § 1005.611.
(h) The Direct Guarantee Lender shall provide an account reconciliation
of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee in the time and manner as may be prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.611
HUD imposed penalties.
(a)
Prohibited penalty pass through.
The Holder, Direct Guarantee Lender or Servicer shall not recover or attempt to recover from the Borrower any penalties HUD imposes upon the Holder, Direct Guarantee Lender or Servicer.
(b)
Failure of Direct Guarantee Lender to timely remit Up-Front loan guarantee to HUD.
(1) The Direct Guarantee Lender shall include a late fee if the Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee is not remitted to HUD within 15 days of settlement.
(2) Failure to remit the Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee, with a late fee where applicable, may result in HUD rejecting the endorsement or Claim case binder.
(c)
Failure of Servicer to timely remit the monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee to HUD.
(1) The Servicer shall include a late fee for each monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee remitted to HUD after the15th of each month.
(2) Failure to remit monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee to HUD, with late fee, may result in HUD rejecting the Claim case binder, where applicable.
(d)
Failure of Servicer to adjust the amount of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee.
(1) When a Servicer fails to make the annual adjustment to the amount of the monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee in accordance with § 1005.607(b), the Holder shall, in addition to reimbursing the Borrower as required in § 1005.609(c), pay HUD a penalty for each month the Servicer collects an overpayment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee.
(2) The Servicer shall provide annual written notice, in the manner prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance to the Borrower prior to the scheduled change in the monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee, with such advance notice as required by 12 CFR 1026.9, or other applicable Federal law.
(e)
Failure to cease collection of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee.
When a Servicer fails to cease collection of the monthly installment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee after the loan to value ratio reaches the threshold described in § 1005.609(d), the Holder shall, in addition to reimbursing the Borrower as required in § 1005.609(d), pay HUD a penalty for each month the Servicer collects an overpayment of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee.
(f)
Late fee and penalty amounts.
Late fees and penalty amounts under this section shall be prescribed by HUD in Section 184 Program Guidance.

# Subpart G—Servicing

# Servicing Section 184 Guaranteed Loans Generally
§ 1005.701
Section 184 Guaranteed Loan servicing generally.
This subpart identifies the servicing requirements for Section 184 Guaranteed Loans. All Section 184 Guaranteed Loans must be serviced by Section 184 approved Servicers, including Section 184 Guaranteed Loans owned by Holders. Holders are responsible for all servicing actions, including the acts of its Servicers. Servicers are responsible for their actions in servicing Section 184 Guaranteed Loans, including actions taken on behalf of, or at the direction of, the Holder. Failure to comply with this subpart may result in the reduction of the Claims amount in accordance with subpart H of this part or may subject Holder and/or Servicer to sanctions pursuant to subpart I. Holders and Servicers must comply with all applicable Tribal, Federal, and State requirements related to mortgage servicing.
§ 1005.703
Servicer eligibility and application process.
(a) To be eligible to service Section 184 Guaranteed Loans, a Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender or other financial institution must be an approved mortgage Servicer for FHA or another agency of the Federal Government.
(b) All eligible Direct Guarantee Lenders, Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders and other financial institutions
must apply to become a Servicer in accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance.
(c) Direct Guarantee Lenders servicing Section 184 Guaranteed Loans prior to June 18, 2024 may request an exemption from paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 1005.705
Servicer approval.
(a)
Final approval.
Approval is signified by:
(1) Written notification from HUD that the Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, or other financial institution is approved as a Servicer under the Section 184 Program; and
(2) Agreement by the Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, or other financial institution to comply with requirements of this part and any applicable Federal, State, or Tribal law requirement.
(b)
Limitations on approval.
The Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender or other financial institution may only be approved to service Section 184 Guaranteed Loans in areas where the Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender or financial institution is licensed, as applicable.
(c)
Denial of participation.
A Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender or other financial institution may be denied approval to become a Servicer if HUD determines the Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender or other financial institution does not meet the qualification requirements of § 1005.703. HUD will provide written notification of denial and of the right to submit a written appeal in accordance with § 1005.909.
§ 1005.707
Responsibility for servicing.
(a)
Program compliance.
(1) The Servicer must participate in HUD training on the Section 184 program.
(2) A Servicer shall provide written notification to HUD of any changes that affect qualifications under this subpart within a timeframe prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(b)
Sub-Servicer.
(1) If a Servicer elects to use a sub-servicer, the sub-servicer must be an approved Servicer under § 1005.705.
(2) Servicers are responsible for the actions of their sub-servicers. The Holder and Servicer shall remain fully responsible to HUD for Section 184 Guaranteed Loan servicing in accordance with this subpart, and the actions of a sub-Servicer shall be considered the actions of the Servicer.
(c)
Change in Servicer.
(1) When the responsibility of servicing a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is transferred from one Servicer to another, the acquiring Servicer shall assume responsibility for compliance with this part, this includes addressing any noncompliance by the former Servicer.
(2) The former Servicer must notify HUD of the change in Servicer within 15 days of the transfer, or timeframe as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(3) The acquiring Servicer shall provide notice to the Borrower of the transfer of servicing in accordance with applicable Tribal, Federal and/or State laws that may require such notice.
(4) HUD will hold the acquiring Servicer responsible for errors, omissions, and unresolved HUD review findings on the part of the former Servicer (or former sub-Servicer), discovered after the transfer is reported even when the errors or omissions took place prior to the transfer.
(d)
Transfer of servicing rights.
The Servicer must submit written notification to HUD, within 15 days of transfer, or other time period as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, of the transfer of servicing rights through the acquisition or sale of any Section 184 Guaranteed Loans.
(e)
Reporting requirements.
(1) On a date and manner established by Section 184 Program Guidance, the Servicer shall report to HUD the status of all Section 184 Guaranteed Loans in its Servicing portfolio.
(2) Where applicable, Servicer shall provide an Annual Loan Guarantee Fee reconciliation to the Borrower and HUD, in a manner and timeframe as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(3) Servicer must comply with any other reporting requirements under § 1005.903.
(4) The Servicer's failure to submit required reports on time may subject the Holder and/or Servicer to sanctions and civil money penalties pursuant to §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
(f)
Business change reporting.
Within a timeframe and on a form as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, the Servicer shall provide written notification to HUD of:
(1) All changes in the Servicer's legal structure, including, but not limited to, mergers, acquisitions, terminations, name, location, control of ownership, and character of business;
(2) Staffing changes related to servicing Section 184 Guaranteed Loans; and
(3) Any sanctions by another supervising entity.
(4) Failure to report changes within the timeframe prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance may result in sanctions in accordance with §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
(g)
Annual recertification.
(1) All Servicers are subject to annual recertification on a date and manner as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance. With each annual recertification, Servicers must submit updated contact information, current FHA or another Federal agency recertification status, and other pertinent documents as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(2) Servicers may request an extension of the recertification deadline in accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance.
(3) HUD will review the annual recertification submission and may request any further information required to determine recertification. HUD will provide written notification of approval to continue participation in the Section 184 Program or denial. A denial may be appealed pursuant to § 1005.909.
(4) If an annual recertification is not submitted by the reasonable deadline as prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance, HUD may subject the Servicer to sanctions under § 1005.907.
(h)
Program ineligibility.
Servicer may be deemed ineligible for Section 184 Program participation when HUD becomes aware that the entity or any officer, partner, director, principal, manager or supervisor of the entity was:
(1) Suspended, debarred, under a limited denial of participation (LDP), or otherwise restricted under 2 CFR part 2424, or under similar procedures of any other Federal agency
(2) Indicted for, or have been convicted of, an offense during the 7-year period preceding the date of the application for licensing and registration, or at any time preceding such date of the application, if such indictment or conviction reflects adversely upon the integrity, competency, or fitness to meet the responsibilities of the Servicer to participate in the title I or title II programs of the National Housing Act, or Section 184 Program;
(3) Found to have unresolved findings as a result of HUD or other governmental audit, investigation, or review;
(4) Engaged in business practices that do not conform to generally accepted practices of prudent Servicers or that demonstrate irresponsibility;
(5) Convicted of, or have pled guilty or nolo contendere to, a felony related to participation in the real estate or mortgage Loan industry during the 7-year period preceding the date of the application for licensing and registration, or at any time preceding such date of application, if such felony involved an act of fraud, dishonesty, or a breach of trust or money laundering;
(6) In violation of provisions of the Secure and Fair Enforcement Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5101,
et seq.
) or any applicable provision of Tribal or State law; or
(7) In violation of 12 U.S.C. 1715z-13a or any other requirement established by HUD.
(i)
Records retention.
Servicers must maintain the servicing case binder for a period of three years beyond the date of satisfaction or maturity date of the Loan, whichever is sooner. However, where there is a payment of Claim, the Claim case binder must be retained for a period of at least five years after the final Claim has been paid. Section 184 Program Guidance shall prescribe additional records retention time depending on the circumstances of the Claim.
(ii) [Reserved]
§ 1005.709
Providing information to Borrower and HUD.
(a) Servicers shall provide Section 184 Guaranteed Loan information to Borrowers and arrange for individual loan consultation on request. The Servicer must establish written procedures and controls to assure prompt responses to inquiries. At a minimum, the Servicer must provide contact information to the Borrower in accordance with applicable Tribal, Federal and/or State laws, including:
(1) A written address a Borrower can use to request and submit information; and
(2) A toll-free telephone number a Borrower can use to verbally ask questions and seek information.
(b) All Borrowers must be informed of the system available for obtaining answers to loan inquiries, the Servicer's office from which needed information may be obtained and reminded of the system at least annually.
(c) Within 30 days after the end of each calendar year, the Servicer shall furnish to the Borrower a statement of the interest paid, and of the taxes disbursed from the escrow account during the preceding year.
(d) At the Borrower's request, the Servicer shall furnish a statement of the escrow account sufficient to enable the Borrower to reconcile the account.
(e) Each Servicer shall deliver to the Borrower a written notice of any transfer of the Servicing of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan. The notice must be sent in accordance with applicable Tribal, Federal and/or State laws. Servicers must respond to Borrower inquiries pertaining to the transfer of Servicing in accordance applicable Tribal, Federal and/or State laws.
(f) Servicers must respond to HUD's written or electronic requests for information concerning individual accounts within three business days, or other timeframe established by Section 184 Program Guidance, or the deadline placed by other applicable law, whichever is sooner.
§ 1005.711
Assumption and release of personal liability.
(a)
Assumption.
Section 184 Guaranteed Loans may be fully assumed by an eligible substitute Borrower(s), based on the following:
(1)
Creditworthiness.
At least one person acquiring ownership must be determined to be creditworthy under subpart D of this part. If the Servicer is approved as a Direct Guarantee Lender, the Servicer performs a creditworthiness determination under § 1005.409. If the Servicer or Holder is not approved as a Direct Guarantee Lender, then the Servicer shall request a creditworthiness determination in a manner prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(2)
Trust Lands.
(i) As applicable, a lease approved by HUD, the Tribe or the BIA in the new Borrower's name is required. Servicers shall not proceed to closing on the assumption until and unless the Tribe has consented to assign the property interest to the new Borrower at closing. Where applicable, a final certified Title Status Report documenting the assignment of the lease or recordation of a new lease is required.
(ii) Where applicable, the lease may contain other conveyance restrictions. Servicer must review the lease for conveyance restrictions and ensure the lease complies with § 1005.303(b)(2).
(iii) Other requirements prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(b)
Fees.
The Servicer may collect from the Borrower the following fees and costs:
(1) A charge to compensate the Direct Guarantee Lender for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred as part of the assumption review and processing. HUD may establish limitations on the amount of any such charge.
(2) Reasonable and customary costs, but not more than the amount actually paid by the Direct Guarantee Lender, for any of the following items: credit report, verification of employment and the execution of additional release of liability forms.
(3) Additional fees and costs over and above the assumption fee and reasonable and customary costs cannot be assessed.
(c)
Release of liability.
At closing, the Servicer must release the existing Borrower from any personal liability on a form approved by HUD; the eligible and
approved substitute Borrower assumes personal liability of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan when the release is executed.
(d)
Modification of Loan Guarantee Certificate.
Upon completion of an assumption, the Servicer shall submit copies of the documentation required in this section to HUD, in a manner and form prescribed by HUD. HUD will review the assumption for compliance prior to issuing a revised Loan Guarantee Certificate.
§ 1005.713
Due-on-sale provision.
A Section 184 Guaranteed Loan shall contain a due-on-sale clause permitting acceleration, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance. The Servicer shall promptly advise HUD of any prohibited sale or other transfer of the property or leasehold interest that occurs. The Servicer must request approval from HUD to accelerate the Loan when any prohibited sale or transfer occurs. If acceleration is permitted by applicable Tribal, Federal, or State law, the Servicer shall certify as to the legal authority as part of the request for approval, in a form and manner prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance. Within 30 days of receipt of HUD approval to accelerate, the Servicer shall notify the Borrower of default and acceleration.
§ 1005.715
Application of Borrower payments.
(a) Servicer shall comply with § 1005.509 with respect to the application of Borrower payments. The Servicer shall apply the payments in the following order:
(1) Escrow items, including monthly payments of the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee, rents, taxes, special assessments, and if required, flood insurance, fire, and other hazard insurance premiums;
(2) Interest accrued on the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan;
(3) Principal of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan; and
(4) Late charges, if permitted under the terms of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan and subject to such conditions as HUD may prescribe.
(b) Partial Payments shall be applied in accordance with § 1005.723.
§ 1005.717
Administering escrow accounts.
(a) The Servicer shall not use escrow funds for any purpose other than that for which they were received. It shall segregate escrow commitment deposits, work completion deposits, and all periodic payments received on account of leasehold rents, taxes, assessments, monthly payments of Annual Loan Guarantee Fee, and insurance charges or premiums, and shall deposit such funds with one or more financial institutions in a special account or accounts that are fully insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the National Credit Union Administration. Leasehold rents on Trust Lands may require additional escrow segregation by Servicers, as may be prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(b) It is the Servicer's responsibility to ensure timely escrow disbursements and their proper application. Servicers must establish controls to ensure that accounts payable from the escrow account or the information needed to pay such accounts payable is obtained on a timely basis. Penalties for late payments for accounts payable from the escrow account must not be charged to the Borrower or HUD unless the Servicer can show that the penalty was the direct result of the Borrower's error or omission. The Servicer shall further comply with applicable Tribal, Federal, or State laws, including method of calculations related to escrow, the methods of collection and accounting, and the payment of the accounts payable for which the money has been escrowed.
(c) The Servicer shall not initiate foreclosure for escrow account shortfalls resulting from advances made pursuant to this section.
(d) When a Loan Guarantee Certificate is terminated voluntarily or due to Borrower's prepayment, in total satisfaction of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, amounts in the escrow account designated to pay any HUD required program fees shall be remitted to HUD in a form approved by HUD at the time of the required reporting related to the voluntary termination or prepayment. When a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is prepaid in full, amounts held in escrow
for taxes, hazard insurance, or rents, if applicable, that are not yet due or incurred, shall be released to the Borrower.
§ 1005.719
Fees and costs after endorsement.
(a) After endorsement, the Servicer may collect reasonable and customary fees and costs from the Borrower only as provided below. The Servicer may collect these fees or costs from the Borrower only to the extent that the Servicer is not reimbursed for such fees or costs by HUD. Permissible fees and costs include:
(1) Late fee in accordance with § 1005.511;
(2) Costs for processing or reprocessing a check returned as uncollectible (where bank policy permits, the Servicer must deposit a check for collection a second time before assessing an insufficient funds charge);
(3) Fees for processing a change of ownership of the property;
(4) Fees and costs for processing an assumption of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan in connection with the sale or transfer of the property;
(5) Costs for processing a request for credit approval incurred in the course of processing an assumption or substitute Borrower;
(6) Costs for substitution of a hazard insurance policy at other than the expiration of term of the existing hazard insurance policy;
(7) Costs for modification of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan requiring recordation of the agreement, including those for extension of term or re-amortization;
(8) Fees and costs for processing a partial release of the property;
(9) Attorney's and trustee's fees and costs actually incurred (including the cost of appraisals and advertising) when a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan has been referred to foreclosure counsel and subsequently the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is reinstated. No attorney's fee and cost that exceeds the reasonable limits prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance may be collected from the Borrower, unless approved by HUD;
(10) A trustee's fee, if the security instrument provides for payment of such a fee, for execution of a satisfactory release when the deed of trust is paid in full;
(11) Where permitted by the security instrument, attorney's fees and costs actually incurred in the defense of any suit or legal proceeding wherein the Servicer shall be made a party thereto by reason of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan. No attorney's fee may be charged for the services of the Servicer's staff attorney or other employee;
(12) property preservation costs incurred, subject to reasonable limits prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, or otherwise approved by HUD;
(13) Fees permitted for providing a beneficiary notice under applicable Tribal, Federal and/or State law, if such a fee is not otherwise prohibited by the applicable law(s); and
(14) Such other reasonable and customary costs as may be authorized by HUD.
(b) Reasonable and customary fees must be based upon the actual cost of the work performed, including out-of-pocket expenses. HUD may establish maximum fees and costs which are reasonable and customary in different geographic areas. Except as provided in this part, no fee or costs shall be based on a percentage of either the face amount of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan or the unpaid principal balance due.
§ 1005.721
Enforcement of late fees.
(a) A Servicer shall not commence foreclosure when the Borrower's only default is his or her failure to pay a late fee(s).
(b) A late fee that may be assessed under the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan but unpaid by the Borrower shall not justify Servicer's return of Borrower's payment. However, if the Servicer thereafter notifies the Borrower of his obligation to pay a late fee, such a fee may be deducted from any subsequent payment or payments submitted by the Borrower or on his behalf if this is not inconsistent with the terms of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan. Partial Payments shall be treated as provided in § 1005.723.
(c) A payment submission may be returned because of failure to include a late fee only if the Servicer notifies the Borrower before imposition of the charge of the amount of the monthly payment, the date when the late fee will be imposed, and either the amount of the late charge or the total amount due when the late fee is included.
(d) During the 60-day period beginning on the effective date of transfer of the Servicing of a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, a late fee shall not be assessed. If a payment is received by the prior Servicer on or before the due date (including any applicable grace period allowed by the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan), no late fees shall be assessed by the new Servicer.
(e) A Servicer shall not assess a late fee for failure to pay a late fee, as prohibited under 12 CFR 1026.36.
§ 1005.723
Partial Payments.
(a) A Servicer must have a written policy on how it handles Partial Payments, in compliance with this section and that policy shall be readily available to the public.
(b) Upon receipt of a Partial Payment, a Servicer must provide the Borrower a copy of the Servicer's written Partial Payment policy and a letter explaining how it will handle the received Partial Payment. The Servicer may:
(1) Accept a Partial Payment and either apply it to the Borrower's account;
(2) Identify it with the Borrower's account number and hold it in a trust account pending disposition; or
(3) Return the Partial Payment(s) to the Borrower.
§ 1005.725
Handling prepayments.
Notwithstanding the terms of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, the Servicer shall accept a prepayment at any time and in any amount. Monthly interest on the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan must be calculated on the actual unpaid principal balance of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan as of the date the prepayment is received, and not as of the next payment due date.
§ 1005.727
Substitute Borrowers.
Where an original Borrower requests the substitution of an existing Borrower on the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan:
(a) A Servicer who is Non-Direct Guarantee Lender or financial institution must obtain HUD approval for the substitution. A remaining original Borrower must be maintained and continue to be personally liable for the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, notwithstanding any discharge entered in accordance with applicable Tribal, Federal, or State law.
(b) A Servicer who is a Direct Guarantee Lender may, subject to limitations established by HUD, approve an eligible substitute Borrower that meets the requirements for Section 184 Guaranteed Loans which they own or service, without specific approval from HUD. The remaining original Borrower must be maintained and continue to be personally liable for the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, notwithstanding any discharge entered in accordance with applicable Tribal, Federal, or State law.

# Servicing Default Section 184 Guaranteed Loans
§ 1005.729
Section 184 Guaranteed Loan collection action.
A Servicer shall take prompt action to collect amounts due from Borrowers to minimize the number of accounts in default status. The Servicer must exhaust all reasonable possibilities of collection, including assessing the Borrower's financial circumstances for loss mitigation options in accordance with § 1005.739. No Servicer shall commence foreclosure, assign the loan to HUD, or acquire title to a property until the requirements of this subpart have been completed.
§ 1005.731
Default notice to Borrower.
The Servicer shall provide notice to the Borrower as prescribed by applicable Tribal, Federal, or State law.
§ 1005.733
Loss mitigation application, timelines, and appeals.
(a)
Servicer response to loss mitigation application.
Within five days after the Servicer receives the Borrower's loss
mitigation application, the Servicer must, in writing:
(1) Acknowledge receipt of the application;
(2) Determine if the application is complete or incomplete;
(3) If incomplete, notify the Borrower which documentation is required and missing, and that submission of the missing documents is required no later than fourteen days from the date of the response to provide missing documents to the Servicer. If the Borrower does not timely submit the requested documents, the Servicer must initiate live contact with the Borrower.
(b)
Servicer timeframe for evaluating complete loss mitigation application.
Within fourteen days of receipt of a complete application from Borrower, the Servicer must evaluate the application.
(c)
Notification of Servicer determination.
The Servicer shall provide written notification:
(1) Informing the Borrower of all available loss mitigation options;
(2) Encouraging the Borrower to review all available loss mitigation options and to contact the Servicer with any questions;
(3) Encouraging Borrowers, when feasible, to consider pursuing simultaneous loss mitigation options, to the extent it is offered by the Servicer;
(4) Informing the Borrower that if no loss mitigation option is elected or if all elected loss mitigation options fail, the Servicer may proceed with Tribal notice under § 1005.757(a) or First Legal Action at 180 days of default in accordance with § 1005.757 or § 1005.761; and
(5) Informing the Borrower that, upon First Legal Action or the assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to HUD, the Servicer may no longer offer or authorize a pre-foreclosure sale as an alternative to foreclosure, and that the primary alternative to foreclosure shall be a deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure, subject to applicable Tribal, Federal, or State law or contractual requirements. HUD may permit other loss mitigation on a case-by-case basis if requested by the Servicer.
(d)
Appeal.
(1) If, after the Borrower receives the Servicer's loss mitigation options, the Borrower disagrees with Servicer's loss mitigation determination, the Borrower may appeal in writing and request that the Servicer re-evaluate the Borrower's loss mitigation application. The Borrower must submit its appeal no later than 14 days from the date of notification of the Servicer's loss mitigation determination, or any other deadline as may be prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance. Upon receipt of the Borrower's appeal of the Servicer's loss mitigation determination, the Servicer shall re-evaluate the Borrower's loss mitigation application within thirty days but may not use the same staff that made the initial loss mitigation determination and shall notify the Borrower of its appeal decision in writing.
(2) If the Borrower submits a timely written appeal, the 180-day deadline for First Legal Action shall be suspended during the appeal process.
§ 1005.735
Occupancy inspection.
(a)
Occupancy inspection.
An occupancy inspection is a visual inspection of a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan property by the Servicer to determine if the property is vacant or abandoned and to confirm the identity of any occupants.
(b)
Occupancy follow-up.
An occupancy follow-up is an attempt to communicate with the Borrower via letter, telephone, or other method of communication, other than on-site inspection, to determine occupancy when the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan remains in default after the initial occupancy inspection that did not result in determination of the Borrower's occupancy status.
(c)
Initial occupancy inspection.
The Servicer must perform the initial occupancy inspection after the 45th day of default but no later than the 60th day of the default when:
(1) A payment has not been received within 45 days of the due date or for any other defaults under the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan; and
(2) Efforts to reach the Borrower or occupant have been unsuccessful.
(d)
Occupancy follow-ups and continued inspections.
If the Servicer is unable to determine the Borrower's occupancy status through the initial occupancy inspection, the Servicer must perform occupancy follow-ups and, if necessary,
occupancy inspections every 25-35 days from the last inspection until the occupancy status is determined.
(e)
Occupancy inspections during bankruptcy.
When payments are not submitted and a Borrower is a debtor in bankruptcy, the Servicer must contact either the bankruptcy trustee or the Borrower's bankruptcy attorney, if the Borrower is represented, for information concerning the occupancy status of the property or if an occupancy inspection is necessary or requires authorization. If the Servicer cannot determine that the property is vacant or abandoned during the period of the automatic stay, the Servicer must document in the servicing case binder with evidence that it timely contacted the attorney or trustee.
(f)
Occupancy inspections on Trust Land.
Servicers must make an initial contact with the Tribe in advance of any occupancy inspection on Trust Land to review the Tribe's protocol for conducting occupancy inspections. After the initial contact, Servicers must contact the Tribe in advance of an occupancy inspection on Trust Land in accordance with the Tribe's protocol.
(g)
Alternative deadlines.
HUD may prescribe alternative extended deadlines to the requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section through Section 184 Program Guidance.
(h)
Conflicts with other law.
Nothing in this section shall require a Servicer to conduct an inspection when prohibited by applicable Tribal, Federal, State, or local law.
§ 1005.737
Vacant or abandoned property procedures.
If the Servicer determines through an occupancy inspection or occupancy follow-up that the property is vacant or abandoned, or if the Servicer is notified by HUD that the Tribe or the TDHE determined the property is vacant or abandoned, the Servicer must send a letter, via certified mail or other method providing delivery confirmation, to all Borrowers at the property address, or other known address of Borrower, informing them of the Servicer's determination that the property is vacant or abandoned. This letter must include the Servicer's contact information.
(a) If occupancy is verified through the delivery confirmation, the Servicer shall continue pursuing collection efforts and loss mitigation as required by §§ 1005.729 and 1005.739 until the Servicer has the authority to proceed to First Legal Action in accordance with § 1005.763 or Tribal First Right of Refusal in accordance with § 1005.759.
(b) If the Servicer verifies through the delivery confirmation process that the property is vacant or abandoned; then the Servicer shall:
(1) Commence first-time vacant property inspection;
(2) Take appropriate property preservation and protection actions to secure and maintain the property;
(3) For properties on Trust Land:
(i) Notify the Tribe that the property is vacant or abandoned; and
(ii) Complete Tribal First Right of Refusal under § 1005.759;
(4) For fee simple Properties, complete First Legal Action within 30 days;
(5) Continue to perform vacant property inspections every 25-35 days until the default is cured, the property is disposed of, or the bankruptcy court has granted approval for the Servicer to contact the Borrower or to take any required property preservation actions; and
(6) Retain documentation in the servicing case binder providing evidence of activities required by HUD in this section or otherwise provided in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(c)
Alternative deadlines.
HUD may prescribe alternative extended deadlines to the time requirements of this section in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(d)
Conflicts with other law.
Nothing in this section shall require a Servicer to communicate with a Borrower in a manner prohibited by applicable Tribal, Federal, or State law.

# Servicing Default Section 184 Guaranteed Loans Under the Loss Mitigation Program
§ 1005.739
Loss mitigation.
(a) The purpose of loss mitigation is to attempt to cure the Borrower's default and minimize financial loss to HUD.
(b) The Servicer must offer a loss mitigation option, if applicable, to the Borrower and if practical under the circumstances, within 180 days of the Date of Default, or any extended timeframe prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(c) Loss mitigation options include:
(1) A forbearance plan;
(2) Assumption;
(3) A loan modification;
(4) Loss mitigation advance;
(5) Pre-foreclosure sale;
(6) A deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure; or
(7) Other options, as may be prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(d) A loss mitigation review shall, to the greatest extent possible, be based on a full financial assessment of the Borrower at time of default, and the collection technique(s) must take into account the circumstances particular to each Borrower.
(e) HUD may prescribe conditions and requirements in Section 184 Program Guidance for the eligibility and appropriate use of loss mitigation options.
(f) Within 180 days of default, or any extended timeframe prescribed by Section 184 Guidance, if the Borrower fails to meet their loss mitigation option requirements, the Servicer shall have up to 45 days from the date of the failure of the loss mitigation to determine whether the Borrower should continue with the current loss mitigation option or have Borrower enter into an alternate loss mitigation option.
(g) If a Borrower does not accept, is not eligible for, or fails loss mitigation, the Servicer shall complete First Legal Action in accordance with § 1005.763 or Tribal First Right of Refusal in accordance with § 1005.759.
(h) Documentation must be maintained for the initial and all subsequent evaluations and resulting loss mitigation actions in the servicing case binder in accordance with § 1005.219(d)(2).
(i) A Servicer that is found to have failed to engage in and comply with loss mitigation as required under this subpart may be subject to enforcement action by HUD, including but not limited to sanctions under §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
(j) HUD may provide alternative requirements to this section when there is a national emergency or disaster and publish such alternative requirements in Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.741
Notice to Tribe and BIA—Borrower default.
(a) When two consecutive Section 184 Guaranteed Loan payments are in default or sixty days after other default under the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, the Servicer shall provide notice of default to:
(1) The BIA, where applicable, for Section 184 Guaranteed Loan property that is on Trust Land, in accordance with applicable BIA requirements; and,
(2) The Tribe, where applicable, for any Section 184 Guaranteed Loan property where a Borrower has provided consent of notification in accordance with § 1005.501(j).
(b) The Servicer shall continue exploring loss mitigation options, consistent with the requirements under this subpart, with the Borrower during the notification process to the Tribe and/or BIA, as applicable.
§ 1005.743
Relief for Borrower in military service.
(a)
Postponement of principal payments.
If the Borrower is a person in “military service,” as such term is defined in the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 3901-4043), the Servicer may, by written agreement with the Borrower, postpone for the period of military service and three months thereafter any part of the monthly payment which represents the Amortization of principal. The agreement shall contain a provision for the resumption of monthly payments after such a period in amounts which will completely amortize the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan within the maturity as provided in the original loan term.
(b)
Forbearance.
Forbearance plans may be available to Borrowers in military service pursuant to § 1005.745(e).
(c)
Postponement of foreclosure.
If at any time during default the Borrower is a person in “military service,” as such term is defined in the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, the period during which the Borrower is in such military service shall be excluded in computing the period within which the Servicer shall complete First Legal Action to acquire the property or Tribal notice under § 1005.759(a). No postponement or delay in the prosecution of foreclosure proceedings during the period the Borrower is in such military service shall be construed as failure on the part of the Servicer to exercise reasonable diligence in prosecuting such proceedings to completion as required by this subpart.
§ 1005.745
Forbearance plans.
(a)
General.
Forbearance plans are arrangements between a Servicer and Borrower that may allow for a period of reduced and/or suspended payments and specific terms for the repayment plan. During the Forbearance period, where Borrower is in compliance with the Forbearance plan, the Servicer shall not proceed to First Legal Action or complete Tribal First Right of Refusal notice under § 1005.759 until expiration or default of the Agreement.
(b)
Informal forbearance.
Informal forbearance plans are oral agreements, where permitted under Tribal or State law, between a Servicer and Borrower allowing for reduced or suspended payments and may provide specific terms for repayment.
(1)
Eligibility.
The Servicer may offer an informal forbearance plan to a Borrower with a delinquent Section 184 Guaranteed Loan who is not experiencing a loss of income or an increase in living expenses that can be verified.
(2)
Duration.
The period shall be three months or less.
(c)
Formal forbearance.
Formal forbearance plans are written agreements executed by the Servicer and Borrower, allowing for reduced or suspended payments and such plans may include specific terms for repayment.
(1)
Eligibility.
The Servicer may offer a formal forbearance plan when:
(i) The Borrower is not experiencing a loss of income or increase in living expenses that can be verified; or
(ii) If the Servicer determines that the Borrower is otherwise ineligible for other loss mitigation options but has sufficient surplus income or other assets that could repay the indebtedness.
(2)
Agreement.
The Servicer shall execute a written agreement with the Borrower outlining the terms and conditions of the formal forbearance. The Servicer must include in the formal forbearance agreement a provision for the resumption of monthly payments on a date certain, with repayment in amounts which will completely reinstate the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan no later than the original maturity date. The Servicer must retain in the servicing case binder a copy of the written formal forbearance agreement postponing principal and interest payments.
(3)
Duration.
The repayment period shall be equal to or greater than three months but not to exceed six months, unless authorized by HUD.
(4)
Required documents.
The Servicer must obtain from the Borrower any necessary supporting documentation and retain this documentation in the servicing case binder.
(5)
Property condition.
The Servicer must conduct any review it deems necessary, including a property inspection, when the Servicer has reason to believe that the physical condition of the property adversely impacts the Borrower's use or ability to support the debt as follows:
(i) Financial information provided by the Borrower indicating large expenses for property maintenance;
(ii) The Servicer receives notice from local government or other third parties regarding property condition; or
(iii) The property may be affected by a disaster event.
(iv) If significant maintenance costs contributed to the default or are affecting the Borrower's ability to make payments under the loan or formal forbearance agreement, the Servicer may provide in the formal forbearance agreement a period of loan forbearance during which repairs specified in the agreement will be completed at the Borrower's expense.
(d)
Special forbearance-unemployment.
The special forbearance-unemployment loss mitigation option is available when one or more of the Borrowers has become unemployed and the loss of employment has negatively affected the Borrower's ability to continue to make their monthly Section 184 Guaranteed Loan payment. It is a formal forbearance plan with a written agreement executed by the Servicer and Borrower, allowing for reduced or suspended payments and such plan may include specific terms for repayment.
(1)
Eligibility.
The Servicer must ensure that the Borrower meets all the following eligibility requirements:
(i) The Section 184 Guaranteed Loan must be at least three months in default.
(ii) The Borrower is experiencing a verified loss of income or increase in living expenses due to loss of employment.
(iii) The Borrower must continue to occupy the property as a Principal Residence.
(iv) The Borrower must have a verified unemployment status and no Borrower is currently receiving continuous income; or an analysis of the Borrower's financial information indicates that special forbearance-unemployment is the best or only option available for the Borrower.
(2)
Agreement.
The Servicer shall execute a written special forbearance-unemployment agreement with the Borrower outlining the terms and conditions of the special forbearance-unemployment. The Servicer must include in the special forbearance-unemployment agreement a provision for the resumption of monthly payments on a date certain, with repayment in amounts which will completely reinstate the Section 184 Guarantee Loan no later than the original maturity. The Servicer must retain in the servicing case binder a copy of the written special forbearance-unemployment agreement postponing principal and interest payments.
(3)
Duration.
The repayment period shall not exceed six months.
(4)
Required documents.
The Servicer must obtain from the Borrower such supporting third party documentation, including receipts of unemployment benefits or an affidavit signed by the Borrower, stating the date that the Borrower became unemployed and stating that the Borrower is actively seeking, and is available, for employment. The Servicer must retain this documentation in the servicing case binder.
(5)
Property condition.
The Servicer must conduct any review it deems necessary, including a property inspection, when the Servicer has reason to believe that the physical condition of the property adversely impacts the Borrower's use or ability to support the debt as follows:
(i) Financial information provided by the Borrower indicating large expenses for property maintenance;
(ii) The Servicer receives notice from local government or other third parties regarding property condition; or
(iii) The property may be affected by a disaster event.
(iv) If significant maintenance costs contributed to the default or are affecting the Borrower's ability to make payments under the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan or special forbearance-unemployment agreement, the Servicer may provide in the special forbearance-unemployment agreement a period of forbearance during which repairs specified in the agreement will be completed at the Borrower's expense.
(e)
Special forbearance-servicemember.
The Servicer may, by written special forbearance-servicemember agreement with the Borrower, postpone any part of the monthly Section 184 Guaranteed Loan that represents Amortization of principal, for the period permitted by HUD under § 1005.743.
(1)
Eligibility.
The servicemember must be in active-duty military service and meet the criteria established in 50 U.S.C. 3911. Dependents of servicemembers are entitled to protections in limited situations per the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, as amended.
(2)
Duration.
The repayment period shall be for the period of military service and three months thereafter.
(3)
Required documents.
The Borrower shall provide the Servicer with a copy of the servicemember's deployment orders.
(4)
Agreement.
(i) The Servicer shall execute a written special forbearance-
servicemember agreement with the Borrower outlining the terms and conditions of the special forbearance-servicemember agreement. The Servicer must include in the special forbearance-servicemember agreement a provision for the resumption of monthly payments on a date certain, with repayment in amounts which will completely reinstate the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan no later than the original maturity date. The Servicer must retain in the servicing case binder a copy of the written special forbearance-servicemember agreement postponing principal and interest payments.
(ii) The Servicer shall comply with all applicable requirements under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.
(f)
Continued review and re-evaluation.
The Servicer shall monitor the Borrower's compliance with an agreement under § 1005.743 every 30 days, until the end of the agreement.
(g)
Other special forbearances.
HUD may provide for a special forbearance in response to a disaster or other national emergency or other circumstances approved by the Secretary.
§ 1005.747
Assumption.
The Servicer shall explore assumption as a loss mitigation option with the Borrower in accordance with § 1005.711. Assumptions associated with loss mitigation must result in the cure of the default and reinstatement of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.
§ 1005.749
Loan modification.
(a)
General.
A Section 184 Guaranteed Loan modification may include a change in one or more of the following: interest rate; capitalization of delinquent principal, interest, or escrow items; or re-Amortization of the balance due. A Section 184 Guaranteed Loan modification may not be used as a means to reinstate the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan prior to sale or assumption.
(b)
Eligibility.
The Servicer must ensure that the Borrower is able to support the monthly loan payment after the loan is modified.
(c)
Borrower qualifications.
The Servicer must ensure that the Borrower meets the following eligibility criteria:
(1) At least 12 months have elapsed since the closing date of the original Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.
(2) The Borrower has not executed a loan modification agreement in the past 24 months. The number of loan modification agreements may be limited as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance. The Servicer may approve the first loan modification agreement under the Loan, and HUD must approve any subsequent loan modifications.
(3) The Borrower's default is due to a verified loss of income or increase in living expenses.
(4) One or more Borrowers receive continuous income sufficient to support the monthly payment under the modified rate and term, although not sufficient to sustain the original Section 184 Guaranteed Loan and repay the arrearage.
(5) The Borrower's minimum percentage of net income shall be prescribed by HUD.
(6) The Borrower's monthly payment, which consists of principal, interest, taxes, insurance, and other escrow, can be reduced by the greater of 10 percent of the existing monthly Section 184 Guaranteed Loan payment amount but no less than $100, using an agreed upon interested rate in accordance with § 1005.451 and amortizing for a term up to 30 years or any other period as may be prescribed by HUD.
(7) The Borrower has successfully completed a three-month trial payment plan based on the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan estimated modification monthly payment amount.
(d)
Property conditions.
The Servicer must conduct any review it deems necessary, including a property inspection, when the Servicer has reason to believe that the physical conditions of the property adversely impact the Borrower's use or ability to support the debt as follows:
(1) Financial information provided by the Borrower indicates large expenses for property maintenance;
(2) The Servicer receives notice from local government or other third parties regarding property condition; or
(3) The property is affected by a disaster event.
(e)
Trial payment plans.
A trial payment plan is a written agreement executed by all parties on the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, for a minimum period of three months, during which the Borrower must make the agreed-upon consecutive monthly payments prior to execution of the final loan modification.
(1)
Trial payment plan terms.
The Servicer must ensure that the following apply to interest rates and monthly payment amounts under trial payment plan:
(i) The interest rate for the trial payment plan and the loan modification must in accordance with § 1005.451.
(ii) The interest rate is established when the trial payment plan is offered to the Borrower.
(iii) The established monthly loan modification payment must be the same or less than the established monthly trial payment.
(2)
Start of trial payments.
The Servicer must send the proposed trial payment plan agreement to the Borrower at least 30 days before the date the first trial payment is due.
(3)
Trial payment plan signatures.
(i) All parties on the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan and all parties that will be subject to the modified loan must execute the trial payment plan agreement unless:
(A) A Borrower or co-Borrower is deceased;
(B) A Borrower and a co-Borrower are divorced; or
(C) A Borrower or co-Borrower on the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan has been released from liability as the result of an approved substitute Borrower.
(ii) When a Borrower uses a non-Borrower household member's income to qualify for a loan modification, the non-Borrower household member must be on the modified note and Section 184 Guaranteed Loan and sign the trial payment plan agreement.
(4)
Application of trial payments.
The Servicer must treat payments made under the trial payment plan as Partial Payments, held in a suspense account and applied in accordance with procedures in the Section 184 Program Guidance and applicable Federal regulations.
(5)
End of trial payment plan period.
The Servicer must offer the Borrower a permanent loan modification after the Borrower's successful completion of a trial payment plan.
(6)
Trial payment plan failure.
The Borrower fails a trial payment plan when one of the following occurs:
(i) The Borrower does not return the executed trial payment plan agreement within the month the first trial payment is due;
(ii) The Borrower vacates or abandons the property; or
(iii) The Borrower does not make a scheduled trial payment plan payment by the last day of the month it was due.
(7)
Alternatives to foreclosure after trial payment plan failure.
If a Borrower fails to successfully complete a trial payment plan, the Servicer must:
(i) Provide notice to the Borrower of the failure to comply with the trial payment plan; and
(ii) Offer the Borrower the opportunity for a deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure, with seven days to respond to the offer.
(8)
Funds remaining at the end of trial payment period.
(i) At the end of a successful trial payment plan, any remaining funds that do not equal a full payment must be applied to any escrow shortage or be used to reduce the amount that would be capitalized onto the principal balance.
(ii)
Trial payment plan failure.
If the Borrower does not complete the trial payment plan, the Servicer must apply all funds held in suspense to the Borrower's account in the established order of priority.
(9)
Reporting of trial payment plans.
The Servicer must report the trial payment plans to HUD in the manner prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(f)
Loan modification documents.
HUD does not require a specific format for the loan modification documents; however, the Servicer must use documents that conform to all applicable Tribal, Federal, and State laws.
(g)
Post-modification review and modification of Loan Guarantee Certificate.
Upon completion of a successful trial payment plan and within 30 days of the
execution of the loan modification documents, the Servicer shall provide copies of the loan modification documents to HUD. The Servicer shall comply with additional processing instructions as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.751
Loss mitigation advance.
(a)
General.
A loss mitigation advance is a reimbursement by HUD to the Holder for the advancement of funds on behalf of the Borrower in the amount necessary to assist in the reinstatement of the Borrower's Section 184 Guaranteed Loan. The loss mitigation advance is a subordinate lien in favor of HUD. More than one loss mitigation advance may be made to an eligible Borrower.
(b)
Borrower eligibility.
To be eligible for a loss mitigation advance:
(1) The Borrower's Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is 90 or more days past due:
(2) The Borrower has the ability to resume making on-time monthly loan payments and the property is owner occupied.
(3) [Reserved]
(c)
Terms.
The loss mitigation advance shall:
(1) Include all arrearages, which refers to any amounts needed to bring the Borrower's Section 184 Guaranteed Loan current;
(2) Provide that all prior loss mitigation advances, if any, in total must not exceed 30 percent of the unpaid principal balance as of the date of default;
(3) Include any other terms and conditions, as may be prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance; and
(4) Along with another loss mitigation, where applicable, fully reinstate the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan upon the Borrower's acceptance of the loss mitigation advance.
§ 1005.753
Pre-foreclosure sale.
(a)
General.
A pre-foreclosure sale, also known as a short sale, refers to the sale of real estate that generates proceeds that are less than the amount owed on the property and any junior lien holders have agreed to release their liens and forgive the deficiency balance on the real estate.
(b)
Eligibility.
To be eligible for a pre-foreclosure sale, a Servicer must ensure:
(1) The Section 184 Guaranteed Loan was Originated at least 12 months prior to default;
(2) The default was due to an adverse and unavoidable financial situation impacting the Borrower;
(3) The property has a current fair market value that is equal to or less than the unpaid principal balance;
(4) The Borrower elected the pre-foreclosure sale option within 120 days, or any other date as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, from default; and
(5) All other requirements of the pre-foreclosure sale loss mitigation option under this section are met.
(c)
Surchargeable damages.
Surchargeable damage is damage to the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan property caused by fire, flood, earthquake, tornado, boiler explosion (for condominiums only) or Servicer neglect. The Servicer is responsible for the cost of surchargeable damage, and these amounts are not reimbursable by HUD. The Servicer must request HUD approval before approving the use of the pre-foreclosure sale loss mitigation option when the property has sustained surchargeable damage. If the damage is not surchargeable damage, the Servicer is not required to obtain HUD approval prior to approving the Approval to Participate Agreement with Borrower. The Servicer must comply with paragraph (p) of this regulation where a hazard insurance claim must be filed.
(d)
Condition of title or Title Status Report.
(1) For Section 184 Guaranteed Loans on fee simple lands, a Servicer must ensure the property has Good and Marketable Title. Before approving a pre-foreclosure sale loss mitigation option, the Servicer must obtain title evidence or a preliminary report verifying that the title is not impaired by unresolvable title defects or junior liens that cannot be discharged.
(2) For Section 184 Guaranteed Loans on Trust Land, the Servicer shall obtain a certified Title Status Report from the BIA. Before approving a pre-foreclosure sale loss mitigation option, the Servicer must verify that the property is not encumbered by unresolvable
title defects or junior liens that cannot be discharged.
(e)
Discharge of junior liens.
The Servicer must contact all junior lienholders to verify the Borrower has secured a discharge of the junior liens.
(f)
Property list price and valuation
—(1)
List price.
The Servicer must ensure that the Borrower lists the property for sale at no less than the “as-is” value, as determined by an appraisal completed in accordance with the requirements in § 1005.457.
(2)
Appraisals.
The Servicer must have the property appraised in accordance with § 1005.457 and pursuant to the following requirements:
(i) The appraisal must contain an “as-is” fair market value for the subject property;
(ii) A copy of the appraisal must be provided to HUD. A copy of the appraisal must be provided to the Borrower or sales agent, upon request;
(iii) A Servicer must present HUD with a request for a variance to approve a pre-foreclosure sale transaction if one of the following conditions exists:
(A) The current appraised value of the property is less than the unpaid principal balance by an amount of $75,000 or greater;
(B) The appraised value is less than 50 percent of the unpaid principal balance; or
(C) The appraisal is deemed unacceptable because the as-is value cannot be affirmed using a Broker's Price Opinion or Automated Valuation Model within 10 percent of the value.
(iv) Paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section is not applicable to property on Trust Land unless there is a viable real estate market;
(v) Under paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section, the Servicer must note on the variance request the specific reason for the request and attach any supporting documents needed for HUD review;
(vi) The Servicer must obtain HUD approval before authorizing the marketing of the property; and
(vii) All pre-foreclosure appraisals must be accompanied by a broker's price opinion or an automated valuation model unless the property is located on Trust Land.
(g)
Required documents.
After determining that a Borrower and property meet the pre-foreclosure sale eligibility requirements, the Servicer shall send to the Borrower:
(1)
Pre-foreclosure sale approval to participate agreement.
The agreement, on a form prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, shall list the pre-foreclosure sale requirements, including the date by which the Borrower's sales contract must be executed during the pre-foreclosure sale marketing period; and
(2)
Pre-foreclosure addendum.
The addendum shall be in the form prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance. The pre-foreclosure sale addendum must be fully executed at closing.
(h)
Delivery of documents to Borrower.
Documents listed under paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section must be sent to the Borrower via methods providing delivery confirmation with a date and time stamp of delivery. The Servicer must inform the Borrower that the documents must be signed and returned to the Servicer within 10 days of receipt.
(i)
Copies to HUD.
The Servicer must send signed copies of the documents in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section to HUD within 15 days of receipt from the Borrower.
(j)
Tribal Notification for Properties on Trust Land.
At the same time the Servicer sends the Approval to Participate Agreement to the Borrower, in accordance with the requirements as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, the Servicer shall send a notice to the Tribe and the TDHE of the option to assume the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan or purchase the property.
(k)
Use of a real estate broker.
The Borrower is responsible for retaining the services of a HUD-approved real estate broker/agent within seven days of the signed Approval to Participate Agreement. For Trust Land, the Borrower may request, through the Servicer, an exception to this section. If an exception is granted, HUD will work with the Borrower, Servicer and Tribe or TDHE to sell the property or pursue another loss mitigation option.
(l)
Required listing disclosure.
The Servicer shall require the listing agreement between the seller and the agent/
broker to include the following cancellation clause: “Seller may cancel this Agreement prior to the ending date of the listing period without advance notice to the Broker, and without payment of a commission or any other consideration if the property is conveyed to HUD or the Holder. The sale completion is subject to approval by the Servicer and HUD.” This section is not applicable to property on Trust Land unless a HUD-approved real estate broker/agent is utilized.
(m)
Pre-foreclosure sale marketing, settlement period, failure to complete pre-foreclosure sale.
The Borrower has seven days, or other timeframe as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance from the date of the signed approval to participate agreement to market the property in the Multiple Listing Service, or other marketing resource if the property is on Trust Land.
(1) The property must be marketed in the Multiple Listing Service or other marketing resource for a period of 90 days, or other timeframe as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance before Borrower may consider any offers.
(2) During the marketing period, Servicers must conduct a monthly review of the property's marketing status with the real estate broker/agent or the Tribe or TDHE, for property on Trust Land.
(3) The maximum marketing period for the sale of the property is 120 days from the execution date of the Approval to Participate Agreement and the date of the property settlement. If there is a signed contract of sale, but property settlement has not occurred by the end of the 120 Days, the marketing period may be extended up to 60 days to allow for closing to occur.
(4) Within 30 days of the end the marketing period, or no earlier than 120 days of default, whichever is later, if no settlement has occurred, Servicer shall provide electronic or written notice to the Borrower of the Borrower's default under the pre-foreclosure sale agreement and present the agreed upon deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure, with title being taken in the name of the Secretary. The Borrower shall have ten days from the date of the notice to respond in writing or by electronic means. If the Servicer receives no response or if the Servicer receives notice of the Borrower's rejection of the alternative to foreclosure, the Servicer must complete First Legal Action within 30 days or Tribal First Right of Refusal within 14 days of the Borrower's deadline to respond or actual rejection response date, whichever is sooner.
(n)
Property inspections and maintenance.
The Servicer shall inspect the property in accordance with § 1005.735 and follow § 1005.739, where applicable.
(o)
Disclosure of damage after pre-foreclosure sale approval.
In the event the property becomes damaged, the Borrower must report damage to the Servicer in accordance with the pre-foreclosure sale agreement. When the Servicer becomes aware that the property has sustained damage after a Borrower has received the Approval to Participate Agreement, the Servicer must evaluate the property to determine if it continues to qualify for the pre-foreclosure sale program or terminate participation if the extent of the damage changes the property's fair market value.
(p)
Hazard insurance claim.
Where applicable, the Servicer must work with the Borrower to file a hazard insurance claim and either: use the proceeds to repair the property; or adjust the Claim by the amount of the insurance settlement (Non-Surchargeable Damage) or the Secretary's repair cost estimate.
(q)
Evaluation of offers.
The Servicer must receive from the listing real estate broker/agent an offer that yields the highest net return to HUD and meets HUD's requirements for bids, as follows:
(1)
Real estate broker/agent to ensure execution of documents.
The real estate broker/agent must ensure that the accepted offer and the pre-foreclosure sale addendum are signed by all applicable parties before submitting to the Servicer for approval, and
(2)
Arm's length transaction.
The transaction must be between two unrelated parties who are each acting in their own best interest.
(3
) Back-up offers.
Once an offer has been submitted to the Servicer for approval, the real estate broker/agent must retain any offer that the seller
elects to hold as backup offer until a determination has been made on the previously submitted offer.
(r)
Contract approval by Servicer
—(1)
Review of sales contract.
In reviewing the contract of sale, the Servicer must:
(i) Ensure that the pre-foreclosure sale is an outright sale of the property and not a sale by assumption.
(ii) Review the sales documentation to determine that there are no hidden terms or special agreements existing between any of the parties involved in the pre-foreclosure sale transaction; and no contingencies that might delay or jeopardize a timely settlement.
(iii) Determine that the property was marketed pursuant to HUD requirements.
(iv) Not approve a Borrower for a pre-foreclosure sale if the Servicer knows or has reason to know of the Borrower's fraud or misrepresentation of information.
(2)
Sales contract review period.
After receiving an executed contract of sale and pre-foreclosure sale addendum from the Borrower, the Servicer must send to the Borrower a Sales Contract Review, on a form prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, no later than five business days after the Servicer's receipt of an executed contract for sale.
(3)
Net sale proceeds.
(i) Net sale proceeds are the proceeds of a pre-foreclosure sale, calculated by subtracting reasonable and customary closing and settlement costs from the property sales price.
(ii) Regardless of the property sale price, a Servicer may only approve a pre-foreclosure sale contract for sale if the net sale proceeds are at or above minimum allowable thresholds established by HUD. The net sale proceeds must conform to the requirements on the Pre-Foreclosure Sale Approval to Participate Agreement.
(iii) The Servicer is liable for any Claim overpayment on a pre-foreclosure sale transaction that closes with less than the required net sale proceeds unless a variance has been granted by HUD.
(4)
Unacceptable settlement costs.
The Servicer must not include the following costs in the Net Sale Proceeds calculation:
(i) Repair reimbursements or allowances;
(ii) Home warranty fees;
(iii) Discount points or loan fees;
(iv) Servicer's title insurance fee;
(v) Third-party fees incurred by the Servicer or Borrower to negotiate a pre-foreclosure sale; and
(vi) Any other costs as may be prohibited in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(5)
Other third-party fees.
(i) With the exception of reasonable and customary real estate commissions, the Servicer must ensure that third-party fees incurred by the Servicer or Borrower to negotiate a pre-foreclosure sale are not included on the Closing Disclosure or similar legal documents unless explicitly permitted by Tribal or State law.
(ii) The Servicer, its agents, or any outsourcing firm it employs must not charge any fee to the Borrower for participation in the pre-foreclosure sale.
(s)
Closing and post-closing responsibilities.
For the purpose of this section, with respect to Trust Land, the closing agent may be selected by the Tribe or TDHE.
(1)
Closing worksheet.
Prior to closing, the Servicer must provide the closing agent with a Closing Worksheet, on a form prescribed by HUD, listing all amounts payable from net sale proceeds; and a pre-foreclosure sale addendum signed by all parties.
(2)
Servicer review of final terms of pre-foreclosure sale transaction.
The Servicer will receive from the closing agent a calculation of the actual net sale proceeds and a copy of the Closing Disclosure or similar legal document. The Servicer must ensure that:
(i) The final terms of the pre-foreclosure sale transaction are consistent with the purchase contract;
(ii) Only allowable settlement costs have been deducted from the seller's proceeds;
(iii) The net sale proceeds will be equal to or greater than the allowable thresholds;
(iv) A Closing Worksheet form is included in the claim case binder; and
(v) It reports the pre-foreclosure sale to consumer reporting agencies.
(3)
Closing agent responsibilities after final approval.
Once the Servicer gives final approval for the pre-foreclosure
sale and the settlement occurs, the closing agent must:
(i) Pay the expenses out of the Net Sale Proceeds and forward the Net Sale Proceeds to the Servicer;
(ii) Forward a copy of the Closing Disclosure or similar legal document to the Servicer to be included in the Claim case binder no later than three business days after the pre-foreclosure sale transaction closes; and,
(iii) Sign the pre-foreclosure sale Addendum on or before the date the pre-foreclosure sale transaction closes, unless explicitly prohibited by Tribal or State statute.
(4)
Satisfaction of debt.
Upon receipt of the portion of the net sale proceeds designated for Section 184 Guaranteed Loan satisfaction, the Servicer must apply the funds to the outstanding balance and discharge any remaining debt, release the lien in the appropriate jurisdiction, and may file a Claim.
(5)
Discharge of junior liens.
The Servicer must verify the pre-foreclosure sale will result in the discharge of junior liens as follows:
(i) If the Borrower has the financial ability, the Borrower must be required to satisfy or otherwise obtain release of liens.
(ii) If no other sources are available, the Borrower may obligate up to a maximum amount from sale proceeds towards discharging the liens or encumbrances, such maximum amount will be prescribed by HUD.
(t)
Early termination of pre-foreclosure participation
—(1)
Borrower-initiated termination.
The Servicer must permit a Borrower to voluntarily terminate participation in the pre-foreclosure sale loss mitigation option at any time.
(2)
Servicer-initiated termination.
The Servicer shall terminate a Borrower's pre-foreclosure sale program participation for any of the following reasons:
(i) Discovery of unresolvable title problems;
(ii) Determination that the Borrower is not acting in good faith to market the property;
(iii) Significant change in property condition or value;
(iv) Re-evaluation based on new financial information provided by the Borrower that indicates that the case does not qualify for the pre-foreclosure sale option; or
(v) Borrower has failed to complete a pre-foreclosure sale within the time limits prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance and no extensions of time have been granted by HUD.
(3)
Notification of pre-foreclosure sale Program Participation Termination.
The Servicer must forward to the Borrower a written explanation for terminating their program participation. This letter is to include the “end-of-participation” date for the Borrower.
(4)
Failure to complete a pre-foreclosure sale.
Should the Borrower be unable to complete a pre-foreclosure sale transaction, the Servicer must proceed with a deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure in accordance with § 1005.755. If the Servicer is unable to obtain a deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure, the Servicer must proceed to First Legal Action or assignment in accordance with §§ 1005.763 and 1005.765.
§ 1005.755
Deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure.
(a)
Requirements.
In lieu of instituting or completing a foreclosure, the Servicer or HUD may acquire a property by voluntary conveyance from the Borrowers. Conveyance of the property by deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure is allowed subject to the Servicer's compliance with the following requirements:
(1) The lease-in-lieu of foreclosure for a property on Trust Land shall be approved by the Tribe prior to execution and by the BIA at recordation.
(2) The Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is in default at the time of the deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure is executed and delivered;
(3) The Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is satisfied of record as a part of the consideration for such conveyance;
(4) The deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure from the Borrower contains a covenant which warrants against the acts of the grantor and all claiming by, through, or under the grantor and conveys Good and Marketable Title, or for leases, assigns without objectionable encumbrances;
(5) With respect to Section 184 Guaranteed Loans on fee simple lands, the Servicer transfers to HUD Good and
Marketable Title accompanied by satisfactory title evidence.
(6) With respect to Section 184 Guaranteed Loans on Trust Lands, the Servicer provides to HUD a certified Title Status Report, or other HUD approved document issued by the Tribe, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance evidencing assignment to HUD without any objectionable encumbrances.
(7) The property must meet the property conditions under § 1005.769. HUD may consent to conveyance of the property by deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure when property does not meet § 1005.769 in accordance with procedures in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(b)
Required documentation.
A written agreement must be executed by the Borrower and Servicer which contains all of the conditions under which the deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure will be accepted.
(c)
Conveyance to Servicer.
Upon execution of the deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure document(s), the Servicer must file for record no later than two business days from receipt.
(d)
Conveyance to HUD, where applicable.
After evidence of recordation is available, the Servicer shall convey the property to HUD in accordance with § 1005.771.
(e)
Reporting for Credit Purposes.
The Servicer must comply with all applicable Tribal, Federal, State, and local reporting requirements, including but not limited to reporting to credit reporting agencies.
§ 1005.757
Incentive payments.
As an alternative to foreclosure, or eviction where applicable, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, HUD may authorize, an incentive payment to:
(a) Borrowers that complete certain loss mitigation options or for their agreement to vacate the property after foreclosure, under the terms established by the Secretary;
(b) Holders or Servicers for their completion of certain loss mitigation options; and
(c) Tribes or TDHEs for their assistance in loss mitigation, sale, or transfer of the Trust Land property.

# Assignment of the Loan to HUD; Foreclosure and Conveyance
§ 1005.759
Property on Trust Land—Tribal First Right of Refusal; foreclosure or assignment.
(a) Tribal First Right of Refusal is written notice to the Tribe of the options to assume the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan or purchase the Note based on the current unpaid principal balance or appraised value for any property on Trust Land or other reasonable options as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(b) The Servicer shall provide Tribal First Right of Refusal no later than 14 days, or any extended timeframe prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, after the earlier of:
(1) Any lease provision addressing Tribal First Right of Refusal;
(2) 120 days after default, unless the Borrower is in active loss mitigation;
(3) Failure of loss mitigation after 180 days from default;
(4) The failure of loss mitigation after an extension of the loss mitigation period under § 1005.739(f).
(5) The date the property was determined vacant or abandoned in accordance § 1005.737 or the earliest date the Servicer should have known the property was vacant or abandoned.
(c) The Tribe shall have either the time frame provided in the lease or, if not defined in the lease, 60 days, or any extended timeframe prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, to accept or decline the offer of Tribal First Right of Refusal.
(d) If the Tribe declines or does not respond to the Tribal First Right of Refusal within 60 days, or any extended timeframe prescribed by Section 184 Guidance, the Servicer must either complete First Legal Action or assignment to HUD, within the timeframes prescribed in §§ 1005.763 and 1005.765.
(e) Any costs associated with failure to initiate Tribal First Right of Refusal may be deemed ineligible for claim payment.
§ 1005.761
Fee simple properties—foreclosure or assignment with HUD approval.
(a) Unless a Borrower has completed a pre-foreclosure sale or a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure in accordance with
§§ 1005.753 and 1005.755, the Servicer must complete First Legal Action on the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan pursuant to § 1005.763.
(b) Under limited circumstances, HUD may approve an assignment of a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to HUD for fee simple land properties.
§ 1005.763
First Legal Action deadline and automatic extensions.
(a)
Deadline for First Legal Action.
The Servicer must complete First Legal Action, within 180 days of default, unless a later date is authorized under this part.
(b)
Automatic extensions to the First Legal Action deadline.
HUD permits automatic extensions to the First Legal Action deadline for the following reasons and HUD approval is not required.
(1) If Federal law or the laws of the Tribe or State, in which the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan property is located, do not permit First Legal Action within the deadline designated above, then the Servicer must complete First Legal Action within 30 days after the expiration of the time during which First Legal Action is prohibited; or
(2) If the Borrower is in compliance with an approved loss mitigation plan at 180 days of default and the Borrower subsequently fails loss mitigation, First Legal Action must be completed within 30 days of the loss mitigation failure or the Borrower's request to terminate the loss mitigation plan, whichever is sooner.
(3) If the Borrower does not continue with their current loss mitigation option or enter into an alternative loss mitigation option during the 45-day period under § 1005.739(f), the First Legal Action must be completed within 30 days or
(4) If a Tribal First Right of Refusal was offered under § 1005.759, and the Servicer decides to pursue foreclosure in Tribal court, instead of assigning the Loan to HUD, First Legal Action must be completed within 30 days of completing the Tribal First Right of Refusal.
(c)
Other extensions.
Other necessary and reasonable extensions may be allowed, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(d)
Notice to HUD.
The Servicer must provide notice to HUD, in a form as may be prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance, within 15 days of completing First Legal Action.
(e)
Submission of claim.
The Servicer must submit a claim to HUD within 45 days from the date the foreclosure was complete in accordance with § 1005.809(a) or (c).
§ 1005.765
Assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.
(a)
Fee simple land properties.
(1) The assignment of Section 184 Guaranteed Loans involving fee simple land properties requires prior HUD approval. The Servicer must submit a request for an assignment within 135 days of default, or any extended timeframe prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, unless the Servicer has determined the property is vacant pursuant to § 1005.737.
(2) The Servicer shall have five business days from HUD approval, or any extended timeframe prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, to submit the executed assignment for recordation with the appropriate jurisdiction.
(b)
Properties on Trust Land.
HUD may accept assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan if HUD determines that the assignment is in the best interest of the United States. In cases where HUD accepts the assignment, upon completing the Tribal First Right of Refusal in accordance with § 1005.759, the Servicer shall have five business days, or any extended timeframe prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, to submit the executed assignment for recordation with the BIA, as applicable, or other HUD approved document, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, that evidences the assignment.
(c)
Notice to HUD.
The Servicer must provide notice to HUD, in a form as may be prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance, within 15 days of submitting the assignment for recordation.
(d)
Submission of Claim.
The Servicer shall have 45 days to submit the assignment and evidence of recordation as part of a Claim in accordance with 1005.809(b). The Servicer shall submit to HUD evidence of the filing and of a
Claim in a manner so prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
(e)
Acceptance by HUD.
HUD will accept assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan in accordance with 1005.773.
§ 1005.767
Inspection and preservation of properties.
(a) If at any time the Servicer knows or should have known the property is vacant or abandoned, the Servicer shall comply with the inspection requirements under § 1005.737.
(b) The Servicer shall take appropriate action to protect and preserve the property until its conveyance to HUD, if such action does not constitute an illegal trespass or is not otherwise prohibited by Tribal, State, or Federal law. Taking “appropriate action” includes First Legal Action or assignment within the time required by §§ 1005.763 and 1005.765, as applicable.
§ 1005.769
Property condition.
(a)
Condition at time of transfer.
(1) When the property is transferred, or a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is assigned to HUD in accordance with § 1005.765, the property must be undamaged by fire, earthquake, flood, tornado, and Servicer neglect, except as set forth in this subpart.
(2) A vacant property must be in broom-swept condition, meaning the property is, at a minimum, reasonably free of dust and dirt, and free of hazardous materials or conditions, personal belongings, and interior and exterior debris.
(3) A vacant property is secured and, if applicable, winterized.
(b)
Damage to property.
The Servicer shall not be liable for documented damage to the property by waste, deterioration, or neglect committed by the Borrower, or heirs, successors, or assigns.
(c)
Servicer responsibility.
The Servicer shall be responsible for:
(1) Damage by fire, flood, earthquake, or tornado;
(2) Damage to or destruction of property which is vacant or abandoned when such damage or destruction is due to the Servicer's failure to take reasonable action to inspect, protect, and preserve such property as required by § 1005.737; and
(3) Any damage, whatsoever, that the property has sustained while in the possession of the Servicer, when the property has been conveyed to HUD without notice or approval by HUD as required by § 1005.765.
§ 1005.771
Conveyance of property to HUD at or after foreclosure; time of conveyance.
(a) At or after foreclosure, the Servicer shall convey the property to HUD by one of the following:
(1)
Direct conveyance to HUD.
The Servicer shall cause for the deed to be transferred directly to HUD. The Servicer shall be responsible for determining that such conveyance will comply with all provisions of this part, including conveying Good and Marketable Title and producing satisfactory title evidence to HUD.
(2)
Conveyance by the Holder to HUD.
The Holder shall acquire Good and Marketable Title and transfer the property to HUD within 30 days of the later of:
(i) Execution of the foreclosure deed;
(ii) Acquiring possession of the property;
(iii) Expiration of the redemption period;
(iv) Such further time as may be necessary to complete the title examination and perfect the title; or
(v) Such further time as HUD may approve in writing.
(b) On the date the deed is filed for record, the Servicer shall notify HUD, on a form prescribed by HUD, advising HUD of the filing of such conveyance and shall assign all rights without recourse or warranty any or all claims which the Servicer has acquired in connection with the loan transaction, and as a result of the foreclosure proceedings or other means by which the Servicer acquired or conveyed such property, except such claims as may have been released with the approval of HUD. The Servicer must file for record the deed no later than two business days after execution. The Servicer must document evidence of the submission in the file.
§ 1005.773
HUD acceptance of assignment or conveyance.
(a)
Effective date of assignment.
HUD accepts the assignment of a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan when:
(1) The Servicer has assigned the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to HUD;
(2) The Servicer has provided HUD evidence of the recordation; and
(3) HUD pays a claim for the unpaid principal balance under § 1005.807(a).
(b)
Effective date of conveyance.
HUD accepts conveyance of the property when:
(1) The Servicer has deeded the property to HUD;
(2) The Servicer has provided HUD evidence of the recordation; and
(3) HUD pays a claim for the unpaid principal balance under § 1005.807(a).
(c)
Servicer ongoing obligation.
Notwithstanding the assignment of the Section 184 Guarantee Loan or the filing of the deed or other legal instrument conveying the property interest to the HUD, the Servicer remains responsible for ensuring compliance with this part, including any loss or damage to the property, and such responsibility is retained by the Servicer until the claim has been paid by HUD.

# Subpart H—Claims

# Claims Application, Submission Categories and Types
§ 1005.801
Purpose.
This subpart sets forth requirements that are applicable to a Servicer's submission of an application for a Claim for a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan benefits to HUD. The Servicer's submission of the Claim shall be in compliance with this subpart and must follow the process details as set forth in Section 184 Program Guidance. This subpart also sets forth requirements for processing and payment of the Claim.
§ 1005.803
Claim case binder; HUD authority to review records.
(a) A Servicer must maintain a claim case binder for each claim submitted for payment in accordance with § 1005.219(d)(2). The claim case binder must contain documentation supporting all information submitted in the claim.
(b) HUD may review a claim case binder and the associated endorsement case binder at any time. A Servicer's denial of HUD access to any files may be grounds for sanctions in accordance with §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
(c) Within three business days of a request by HUD, the Servicer must make available for review, or forward to HUD, copies of identified claim case binders.
§ 1005.805
Effect of noncompliance.
(a) When a claim case binder is submitted to HUD for consideration, HUD may conduct a post-endorsement review in accordance with § 1005.527. If HUD determines that the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan does not satisfy the requirements of subpart D, HUD will take one or more of the following actions:
(1) Reject the claim submission when the Holder is the Originating Direct Guarantee Lender.
(2) Pay the claim to the current Holder and demand reimbursement of the claim from the Originating Direct Guarantee Lender.
(3) Reconvey the property or reassign the deed of trust or mortgage in accordance with § 1005.849.
(4) Pursue sanctions against the Originating Direct Guarantee Lender or Sponsored Entity pursuant to §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
(b) When reviewing a claim case binder, if HUD determines:
(1) The Servicer failed to service the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan in accordance with subpart G of this part;
(2) The Servicer committed fraud or a material misrepresentation; or
(3) The Servicer had known or should have known of fraud or a material misrepresentation in violation of this part.
(4) HUD may take one or more of the following actions.
(i) Place a hold on processing the claim for reimbursement of eligible reasonable expenses under § 1005.807(b) and provide the Servicer the opportunity to remedy the deficiency.
(ii) Reject the claim for reimbursement of eligible reasonable expenses under § 1005.807(b) partially or in its entirety.
(iii) Reconvey the property or reassign the deed of trust or mortgage in
accordance with § 1005.849, where applicable, and require the Holder to refund the claim payment of the unpaid principal balance under § 1005.807(a) and expenses under § 1005.807(b). The Holder may resubmit the claim when the deficiencies identified by HUD are cured.
(iv) Pursue administrative offset for any unpaid amounts owed to HUD pursuant to 24 CFR part 17.
(v) Pursue sanctions against the Servicer or Holder pursuant to §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
(vi) Pursue other remedies as determined by HUD.
(c) If a property is reconveyed or the deed of trust or mortgage is reassigned to the Holder, the Holder may not be reimbursed for any expenses incurred after conveyance or reassignment.
(d) If a claim is resubmitted after reconveyance or reassignment and HUD determines a decrease in the value of the property at the time of the resubmission, HUD may reduce the claim payment accordingly.
§ 1005.807
Claim submission categories.
There are three claim submission categories:
(a) Payment of the unpaid principal balance;
(b) Reimbursement of eligible reasonable expenses, including interest, from the Date of Default to the earlier of the deadlines provided in § 1005.839(a) through (e). Allowable reasonable exceptions will be provided by Section 184 Program Guidance; and
(c) Supplemental claim for eligible reasonable expenses incurred prior to the earlier of the deadlines provided in § 1005.839(a)(1) through (5), for expenses omitted from the Servicer's prior claim or for a calculation error made by either Servicer or HUD.
§ 1005.809
Claim types.
HUD recognizes five different claim types. The Servicer must submit a claim based upon the type of property disposition. The Servicer shall submit claims within timeframes established below or any extended timeframe prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance. The Claim types are:
(a)
Conveyance.
When the property is deeded to HUD through foreclosure:
(1) The Servicer must submit a claim under § 1005.807(a) to HUD no later than 2 business days from the date the deed to HUD is executed.
(2)(i)
Fee simple land.
The claim must include the final title policy evidencing HUD's ownership through foreclosure or transfer of the ownership of the property through deed-in-lieu to HUD, in accordance with § 1005.817.
(ii)
Trust Land.
The claim must include a certified Title Status Report evidencing HUD's property interest through foreclosure.
(3) In cases where the Servicer is unable to comply with paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the Servicer shall submit the claim pending the certified Title Status Report in accordance with the time frame specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(4) Servicers must submit claims under § 1005.807(b) no later than 15 days following the submission of a claim under § 1005.807(a).
(b)
Assignment of the loan.
When the Holder assigns the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to HUD:
(1) The Servicer must submit a claim under § 1005.807(a) and (b) no later than 45 days from the date of the assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to HUD is executed.
(2)(i)
Trust Land.
The claim must include the recorded assignment and a certified Title Status Report evidencing the assignment of the mortgage to HUD.
(ii)
Fee simple land.
The claim must include the final title policy providing coverage through the transfer of the mortgage to HUD.
(3) In cases where the Servicer is unable to comply with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the Servicer shall submit the claim pending the certified Title Status Report in accordance with the time frame specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(4) At the time of assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, the Servicer shall certify to HUD that:
(i)
Priority of Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.
The Section 184 Guaranteed Loan has priority over all judgments, mechanics' and materialmen's liens, or any other liens, regardless of when such liens attached, unless approved by HUD;
(ii)
Amount due.
The amount reported to HUD in accordance with § 1005.707(d) prior to assignment is verified to be due and owing under the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan;
(iii)
Offsets or counterclaims and authority to assign.
There are no offsets or counterclaims thereto and the Holder has the authority to assign; and
(iv) The assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to HUD meets the requirements of § 1005.765.
(c)
Post-foreclosure claims without conveyance of title.
When a third-party purchases the property at foreclosure, the Servicer must submit a claim under § 1005.807(a) and (b) to HUD no later than 30 days from the date the property is conveyed to the third-party. If the Holder purchases the property at foreclosure and subsequently sells the property, the Servicer may submit a claim under this section.
(d)
Pre-foreclosure sale, deed-in-lieu or lease-in-lieu.
When a property is sold or conveyed prior to foreclosure in accordance with § 1005.753 or § 1005.755, the Servicer must submit a claim under § 1005.807(a) and (b) to HUD no later than 30 days from the date the sale or conveyance is executed.
(e)
Supplemental claim.
The Servicer shall be limited to one supplemental claim for each Claim under submission categories in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(1) The supplemental claim shall be limited to:
(i) Reasonable eligible expenses incurred up to the date of conveyance of the property or assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, when invoices are received after the payment of the claim under § 1005.807(b); or
(ii) Calculation error(s) made by either the Servicer or HUD.
(2) Supplemental claims must be submitted within six months of the claim submission under § 1005.807(b). Supplemental claims received after six months of the claim submission will not be reviewed or paid by HUD.
(3) Any supplemental claim paid by HUD shall be considered final satisfaction of the Loan Guarantee Certificate.

# Submission of Claims
§ 1005.811
Claims supporting documentation.
The Servicer shall submit supporting documentation to the satisfaction of HUD for each Claim. Such documentation will be provided for in Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.813
Up-front and Annual Loan Guarantee Fee reconciliation.
(a) The Servicer must include in the claims case binder a reconciliation evidencing the payment of the Up-front and Annual Loan Guarantee Fees to HUD.
(b) Where the Servicer fails to comply with paragraph (a) of this section or the reconciliation shows unpaid amounts owed to HUD, and the unpaid amounts, along with late fees, have not been satisfied by the Servicer, HUD shall reject the claim.
(c) The Servicer may resubmit the claim after providing the reconciliation required under paragraph (a) of this section or after the Annual Loan Guarantee Fee amounts, along with late fees, owed to HUD are paid by the Servicer.
(d) Allowance to resubmit in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section shall not be construed to extend any deadlines to file claims specified in this subpart.
§ 1005.815
Conditions for withdrawal of claim.
With HUD's consent, a Holder may withdraw a claim. When HUD consent is granted, the Holder shall agree, where applicable, in writing that it will:
(a) Accept a reconveyance of the property under a conveyance which warrants against the acts of HUD and all claiming by, through or under HUD;
(b) Promptly file for record the reconveyance from HUD;
(c) Accept without continuation, the title evidence which the Servicer furnished to HUD; and
(d) Reimburse HUD for the expenditures and amounts set forth in § 1005.851.

# Property Title Transfers and Title Waivers
§ 1005.817
Conveyance of Good and Marketable Title.
(a)
Satisfactory conveyance of title and transfer of possession.
The Servicer shall tender to HUD a satisfactory conveyance of title and transfer of possession of the property. The deed or other instrument of conveyance shall convey Good and Marketable Title to the property, which shall be accompanied by title evidence satisfactory to HUD.
(b)
Conveyance of property without Good and Marketable Title.
(1) If the title to the property conveyed by the Holder to HUD does not have Good and Marketable Title, the Holder must correct any title defect within 60 days after receiving notice from HUD, or within such further time as HUD may approve in writing.
(2) If the defect is not corrected within 60 days, or such further time as HUD approves in writing, the Holder must reimburse HUD's costs of holding the property. Such holding costs accrue on a daily basis and include interest on the amount of the loan guarantee benefits paid to the Holder at an interest rate set in conformity with the Treasury Fiscal Requirements Manual from the date of such notice to the date the defect is corrected or until HUD reconveys the property to the Holder, as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The daily holding costs to be charged to the Holder shall also include the costs specified in § 1005.851.
(3) If the title defect is not corrected within a reasonable time, as determined by HUD, HUD will, after notice, reconvey the property to the Holder and the Holder must reimburse HUD in accordance with §§ 1005.849 and 1005.851.
§ 1005.819
Types of satisfactory title evidence.
The following types of title evidence shall be satisfactory to HUD:
(a)
Fee or owner's title policy.
A fee or owner's policy of title insurance, a guaranty or guarantee of title, or a certificate of title, issued by a title company, duly authorized by law and qualified by experience to issue such instruments. If an owner's policy of title insurance is furnished, it shall show title in HUD's name and inure to the benefit of the Department. The policy must be drawn in favor of the Holder and HUD, “and their successors and assigns, as their interests may appear”, with the consent of the title company endorsed thereon.
(b)
Policy of title insurance.
A Holder's policy of title insurance supplemented by an abstract and an attorney's certificate of title covering the period subsequent to the date of the loan, the terms of the policy shall be such that the liability of the title company will continue in favor of HUD after title is conveyed to HUD. The policy must be drawn in favor of the Servicer and HUD, “and their successors and assigns, as their interests may appear”, with the consent of the title company endorsed thereon;
(c)
Abstract and legal opinion.
An abstract of title prepared by an abstract company or individual engaged in the business of preparing abstracts of title and accompanied by the legal opinion as to the quality of such title signed by an attorney at law experienced in examination of titles. If title evidence consists of an abstract and an attorney's certificate of title, the search shall extend for at least forty years prior to the date of the Certificate to a well-recognized source of good title;
(d)
Torrens or similar certificate.
A Torrens or similar title certificate;
(e)
Title standard of U.S., Tribal, or State government.
Evidence of title conforming to the standards of a supervising branch of the Government of the United States or of any Tribe, State or Territory thereof; or
(f)
Title Status Report.
Certified Title Status Report issued by the BIA or other comparable document approved by HUD in accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance, shall not be more than sixty (60) days from the date of the § 1005.807(a) claim submission. Extensions may be granted under certain reasonable circumstances, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.821
Coverage of title evidence.
(a) Evidence of title or Title Status Report shall include the recordation of the conveyance or assignment to HUD. The evidence of title, the Title Status
Report or direct verification from the Tribe or TDHE, shall further show that, according to the public or Tribal records, there are no outstanding prior liens, including any past-due and unpaid ground rents, general taxes or special assessments, if applicable, on the date of conveyance or assignment.
(b) If the title evidence and Title Status Report are acceptable generally in the community in which the property is situated, such title evidence and Title Status Report shall be satisfactory to HUD and shall be considered Good and Marketable Title. In cases of disagreement, HUD will make the final determination in its sole discretion.
§ 1005.823
Waived title objections for properties on fee simple land.
Reasonable title objections for fee simple land properties shall be waived by HUD. Reasonable title objections will be prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.825
Waived title objections for properties on Trust Land.
HUD shall not object to title restrictions placed on the tract of Trust Land by the Tribe or the BIA so long as those restrictions do not adversely impact the property or marketability.

# Condition of the Property
§ 1005.827
Damage or neglect.
(a) If the property has been damaged by fire, flood, earthquake, or tornado, or if the property has suffered damage because of the Servicer 's failure to take action as required by § 1005.767 or for any other reason, the Servicer must submit a claim to the hazard insurance policy, as applicable and the damage must be repaired before conveyance of the property or assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to HUD.
(b) If the property has been damaged as described in paragraph (a) of this section and the damage is not covered by a hazard insurance policy, the Servicer must provide notice of such damage to HUD. The property may not be conveyed or assigned until directed to do so by HUD. Upon receipt of such notice, HUD will either:
(1) Allow the Holder to convey the damaged property;
(2) Require the Holder to repair the damage before conveyance, and HUD will reimburse the Holder for reasonable payments, not in excess of HUD's estimate of the cost of repair, less any hazard insurance recovery; or
(3) Require the Holder to repair the damage before conveyance, at the Holder's own expense.
(c) In the event the damaged property is conveyed to HUD without prior notice or approval as provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, HUD may, after notice, reconvey the property and demand reimbursement to HUD for the expenses in accordance with §§ 1005.849 and 1005.851.
§ 1005.829
Certificate of property condition.
(a) As part of the claim submission, the Servicer shall either:
(1) Certify that as of the date of the deed or assignment of the loan to HUD the property was:
(i) Undamaged by fire, flood, earthquake, or tornado;
(ii) Undamaged due to failure of the Servicer to act as required by § 1005.767; and,
(iii) Undamaged while the property was in the possession of the Borrower; or,
(2) Include a copy of HUD's authorization to convey the property in damaged condition.
(b) In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the Servicer's certificate or description of the damage shall be accepted by HUD as establishing the condition of the property, as of the date of the deed or assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.
§ 1005.831
Cancellation of hazard insurance.
The Holder shall cancel any hazard insurance policy as of the date of the deed to HUD, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The amount of premium refund due to the Servicer resulting from such cancellation must be deducted from the total amount claimed.
(b) If the Holder's calculation of the premium refund is less than the actual premium refund, the amount of the difference between the actual refund and the calculated refund shall be remitted
to HUD, accompanied by the insurance company's or agent's statement.
(c) If the Holder's calculation of the premium refund is more than the actual refund, the Servicer must include in a supplemental Claim submission in accordance with § 1005.809(c), accompanied by the insurance company's or agent's statement, the amount of the difference as an eligible cost in accordance with § 1005.843(c).

# Payment of Guarantee Benefits
§ 1005.833
Method of payment.
If the claim is acceptable to HUD, payment of the guarantee benefits shall be made by electronic transfer of funds to the Holder or other such allowable payment method.
§ 1005.835
Claim payment not conclusive evidence of claim meeting all HUD requirements.
Payment of any claim by HUD is not conclusive evidence of compliance with the subparts D or G of this part. HUD reserves the right to conduct post-claim payment review of claims. Where non-compliance with any requirements of this part is identified, HUD will take appropriate action against the Holder, Originating Direct Guarantee Lender and/or Servicer, including but not limited to HUD's remedies under § 1005.805 and sanctions under §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
§ 1005.837
Payment of claim: unpaid principal balance.
HUD will pay a claim under § 1005.807(a) in the amount of the unpaid principal balance less all receipts for the sale or transfer of the property, if applicable, in accordance with the requirements of this subpart.
§ 1005.839
Payment of claim: interest on unpaid principal balance.
HUD shall pay interest on the unpaid principal balance from the date of default to the earlier of the following:
(a) The execution of deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure;
(b) The execution of the conveyance to either Holder, HUD or a third-party;
(c) The execution of the assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to HUD;
(d) The expiration of the reasonable diligence timeframe; or
(e) Other event as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.841
Payment of claim: reimbursement of eligible and reasonable costs.
The claim will be paid in accordance with § 1005.807(b) and will include eligible and reasonable costs, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.843
Reductions to the claim submission amount.
A Holder shall reduce the claim when the following amounts are received or held by the Holder:
(a) All amounts received by the Holder to the account of the borrower after default.
(b) All amounts received by the Holder from any source relating to the property on account of rent, reimbursement or other payments.
(c) All cash retained by the Holder including amounts held or deposited in the account of the Borrower or to which it is entitled under the loan transaction that have not been applied in reduction of the principal loan indebtedness.
§ 1005.845
Rights and liabilities under Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund.
(a) No Borrower, Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, Holder, or Servicer shall have any vested right in the Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund.
(b) No Borrower, Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, Holder, or Servicer shall be subject to any liability arising under the Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund.
(c) The Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund will be credited and debited in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 1715z-13a(i)(2).
§ 1005.847
Final payment.
(a) HUD's payment of a claim(s) shall be deemed as final payment to the Holder, notwithstanding the Holder's ability to present additional claim(s) in accordance with § 1005.807 as applicable. The Holder shall have no further rights against the Borrower or HUD
when there is a final payment. This paragraph does not preclude HUD from seeking reimbursement of costs and return of amounts from the Holder or Originating Direct Guarantee Lender pursuant to §§ 1005.849 and 1005.851.
(b) In cases where HUD reconveys the property to the Holder and HUD is reimbursed for all expenses and Holder returns all amounts pursuant to §§ 1005.849 and 1005.851, provisions under paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply. However, the resubmission of the Claim, if any, shall be subject to § 1005.849(b) and any additional processes as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.849
Reconveyance and reassignment.
(a) HUD may reconvey the property or reassign the deed of trust or mortgage to the Holder due to:
(1) Noncompliance with this part or any requirements as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance; or
(2) An authorized withdrawal of a claim in accordance with § 1005.815.
(b) HUD may take appropriate action against the Holder associated with the reconveyance or reassignment authorized in paragraph (a) of this section, including but not limited to, seeking reimbursement of all claim costs paid by HUD and carrying costs incurred by HUD in accordance with § 1005.851.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision in this subpart, in cases where HUD has conveyed the property or reassigned the deed of trust or mortgage back to the Holder in accordance with § 1005.851, and where the Servicer resubmits the claim, HUD will not reimburse the Holder any expenses incurred after the date of the HUD conveyance or assignment.
(d) Additional reasonable and necessary restrictions may be imposed, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.
§ 1005.851
Reimbursement of expenses to HUD.
Where reconveyance or reassignment is sought by HUD pursuant to § 1005.849 or when HUD determines noncompliance, the Holder or the Originating Direct Guarantee Lender shall reimburse HUD for:
(a) All Claim costs paid by HUD.
(b) HUD's cost of holding the property, including but not limited to expenses based on the estimated taxes, maintenance and operating expenses of the property, and administrative expenses. Adjustments shall be made by HUD for any income received from the property.
(c) The reimbursement shall include interest on the amount of the claim payment returned by the Holder or the originating Direct Guarantee Lender from the date the claim was paid to the date HUD receives the reimbursement from Holder or the originating Direct Guarantee Lender. The interest rate set shall be in conformity with the Treasury Fiscal Requirements Manual.

# Subpart I—Program Performance, Reporting, Sanctions, and Appeals
§ 1005.901
Performance reviews.
HUD may conduct periodic performance reviews of Direct Guarantee Lenders, Non-Direct Guarantee Lenders, Holders, and Servicers. These may include analytical reviews, customer surveys and on-site or remote monitoring reviews. These reviews may include, but are not limited to, an evaluation of compliance with this part. HUD will provide written notice of its assessment and any proposed corrective action, if applicable.
§ 1005.903
Reporting and certifications.
(a) The Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender or Servicer shall provide timely and accurate reports and certifications to HUD, which may include but is not limited to reports in connection with performance reviews under § 1005.901, any special request for information from HUD, and any reasonable reports prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance, within reasonable time frames prescribed by HUD.
(b) The Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender or Servicer's failure to provide timely and accurate reports and certifications to HUD may subject the Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, Holder, or Servicer to sanctions and
civil money penalties pursuant to §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.
§ 1005.905
Notice of sanctions.
(a) Prior to the notice of sanctions or civil money penalties, HUD shall inform the Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, Holder, or Servicer of the specific non-compliance with this part and, where applicable, afford the Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, Holder, or Servicer a reasonable time, as prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance, to return to compliance.
(b) If it is determined that the Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, Holder or Servicer fails to return to compliance within the allowed time, HUD shall provide written notice of the sanctions and civil money penalties to be imposed and the basis for the action.
§ 1005.907
Sanctions and civil money penalties.
(a) Where the Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, Holder or Servicer fails to comply with this part, including failure to maintain adequate accounting records, failure to adequately service loans, or failure to exercise proper credit or underwriting judgment, or becomes ineligible to participate pursuant to § 1005.225, or has engaged in practices otherwise detrimental to the interest of a Borrower or the United States, including but not limited to, failure to provide timely reporting, or failure to follow underwriting requirements set forth in this part, or failure to comply with Section 184 Program Guidance when it specifically provides times, processes, and procedures for complying with the requirements of this part, HUD may take any combination of the following actions:
(1) Either temporarily or permanently terminate a Director Guarantee Lender or Non-Direct Guarantee Lender's status. If such action is taken and the terminated Direct Guarantee Lender wishes to maintain servicing rights to the Section 184 Guaranteed Loans, the terminated Direct Guarantee Lender must seek HUD approval as prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.
(2) Bar the Direct Guarantee Lender or Holder from acquiring additional Section 184 Guaranteed Loans.
(3) Require that the Direct Guarantee Lender assume not less than 10 percent of any loss on further Section 184 Guaranteed Loans made by the Direct Guarantee Lender.
(4) Require that the Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, Holder, or Servicer comply with a corrective action plan or amend the Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender or Holder's quality control plan, subject to HUD approval, to remedy the non-compliance with this part and any process prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance. The plan shall also address methods to prevent the reoccurrence of any practices that are detrimental to the interest of the Borrower or HUD. The corrective action plan or amended quality control plan shall afford the Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, or Holder reasonable time to return to compliance.
(b) HUD is authorized pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1715z-13a(g)(2) to impose civil money penalties upon Direct Guarantee Lenders, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, or Holders as set forth in 24 CFR part 30. The violations for which a civil money penalty may be imposed are listed in subpart B of 24 CFR part 30.
§ 1005.909
Appeals process.
(a) Lenders denied participation in the Section 184 Program pursuant to subpart B of this part, or a Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, Holder, or Servicer subject to sanctions pursuant to § 1005.907, may appeal to HUD's Office of Loan Guarantee within 15 days, or other timeframe as prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance. After consideration of the Lender, Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, Holder or Servicer's appeal, HUD shall advise the Lender, Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, Holder or Servicer in writing whether the denial is rescinded, modified or affirmed. The Lender, Direct Guarantee Lender, Non-Direct Guarantee Lender, Holder, or Servicer may then appeal such decision to the Deputy Assistant
Secretary for Office of Native American Programs, or his or her designee. A decision by the Deputy Assistant Secretary or designee shall constitute final agency action.
(b) Hearings to challenge the imposition of civil money penalties shall be conducted according to the applicable rules of 24 CFR part 30.
Pt. 1006

# PART 1006—NATIVE HAWAIIAN HOUSING BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1006.1
Applicability.
1006.10
Definitions.
1006.20
Grants for affordable housing activities.
1006.30
Waivers.

# Subpart B—Housing Plan
1006.101
Housing plan requirements.
1006.110
Review of plans.

# Subpart C—Eligible Activities
1006.201
Eligible affordable housing activities.
1006.205
Development.
1006.210
Housing services.
1006.215
Housing management services.
1006.220
Crime prevention and safety activities.
1006.225
Model activities.
1006.227
Tenant-based or project-based rental assistance.
1006.230
Administrative and planning costs.
1006.235
Types of investments and forms of assistance.

# Subpart D—Program Requirements
1006.301
Eligible families.
1006.305
Low-income requirement and income targeting.
1006.306
Income verification for receipt of NHHBG assistance.
1006.307
Non-low-income families.
1006.310
Rent and lease-purchase limitations.
1006.315
Lease requirements.
1006.320
Tenant or homebuyer selection.
1006.325
Maintenance, management and efficient operation.
1006.330
Insurance coverage.
1006.335
Use of nonprofit organizations and public-private partnerships.
1006.340
Treatment of program income.
1006.345
Labor standards.
1006.350
Environmental review.
1006.355
Nondiscrimination requirements.
1006.360
Conflict of interest.
1006.365
Program administration responsibilities.
1006.370
Uniform administrative, requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards.
1006.375
Other Federal requirements.
1006.377
Other Federal requirements: Displacement, Relocation, and Acquisition.

# Subpart E—Monitoring and Accountability
1006.401
Monitoring of compliance.
1006.410
Performance reports.
1006.420
Review of DHHL's performance.
1006.430
Corrective and remedial action.
1006.440
Remedies for noncompliance.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1701x, 1701x-1; 25 U.S.C. 4221
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 3535(d), Pub. L. 115-141, Pub. L. 116-6, Pub. L. 116-94, Pub. L. 116-260, Pub. L. 117-103, Pub. L. 117-328.

# Source:
67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1006.1
Applicability.
The requirements and procedure of this part apply to grants under the Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grant (NHHBG) Program, authorized by the Hawaiian Homelands Homeownership Act of 2000 (HHH Act), which adds Title VIII—Housing Assistance For Native Hawaiians (25 U.S.C. 4221
et seq.
), to the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA) (25 U.S.C. 4101
et seq.
).
§ 1006.10
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this part:
Act
means title VIII of NAHASDA, as amended.
Adjusted income
means the annual income that remains after excluding the following amounts:
(1)
Youths, students, and persons with disabilities.
$480 for each member of the family residing in the household (other than the head of the household or the spouse of the head of the household):
(i) Who is under 18 years of age; or
(ii) Who is:
(A) 18 years of age or older; and
(B) A person with disabilities or a full-time student.
(2)
Elderly and disabled families.
$400 for an elderly or disabled family.
(3)
Medical and attendant expenses.
The amount by which 3 percent of the
annual income of the family is exceeded by the aggregate of:
(i) Medical expenses, in the case of an elderly or disabled family; and
(ii) Reasonable attendant care and auxiliary apparatus expenses for each family member who is a person with disabilities, to the extent necessary to enable any member of the family (including a member who is a person with disabilities) to be employed.
(4)
Child care expenses.
Child care expenses, to the extent necessary to enable another member of the family to be employed or to further his or her education.
(5)
Earned income of minors.
The amount of any earned income of any member of the family who is less than 18 years of age.
(6)
Travel expenses.
Excessive travel expenses, not to exceed $25 per family per week, for employment—or education-related travel.
(7)
Other amounts.
Such other amounts as may be provided in the housing plan for Native Hawaiians.
Affordable Housing
means housing that complies with the requirements of the Act and this part. The term includes permanent housing for homeless persons who are persons with disabilities, transitional housing, and single room occupancy housing.
Annual income
has one or more of the following meanings, as determined by the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands:
(1) “Annual income” as defined for HUD's Section 8 programs in 24 CFR part 5, subpart F (except when determining the income of a homebuyer for an owner-occupied rehabilitation project, the value of the homeowner's principal residence may be excluded from the calculation of net family assets); or
(2) The definition of income as used by the U.S. Census Bureau. This definition includes:
(i) Wages, salaries, tips, commissions, etc.;
(ii) Self-employment income;
(iii) Farm self-employment income;
(iv) Interest, dividends, net rental income, or income from estates or trusts;
(v) Social security or railroad retirement;
(vi) Supplemental Security Income, Aid to Families with Dependent Children, or other public assistance or public welfare programs;
(vii) Retirement, survivor, or disability pensions; and
(viii) Any other sources of income received regularly, including Veterans' (VA) payments, unemployment compensation, and alimony; or
(3) Adjusted gross income as defined for purposes of reporting under Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 1040 series for individual Federal annual income tax purposes.
Assistant Secretary
means HUD's Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing.
Department of Hawaiian Home Lands (DHHL)
means the agency or department of the government of the State of Hawaii that is responsible for the administration of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920 (HHCA 1920) (42 Stat. 108
et seq.
).
Director
means the Director of the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands.
Drug-Related Criminal Activity
means the illegal manufacture, sale, distribution, use, or possession with intent to manufacture, sell, distribute, or use a controlled substance (as such term is defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act).
Elderly families; near-elderly families
means:
(1)
In general.
The term “elderly family” or “near-elderly family” means a family whose head (or his or her spouse), or whose sole member, is:
(i) For an elderly family, an elderly person; or
(ii) For a near-elderly family, a near-elderly person.
(2)
Certain families included.
The term “elderly family” or “near-elderly family” includes:
(i) Two or more elderly persons or near-elderly persons, as the case may be, living together; and
(ii) One or more persons described in paragraph (2)(i) of this definition living with one or more persons determined under the housing plan to be essential to their care or well-being.
Elderly person
means an individual who is at least 62 years of age.
Family
includes, but is not limited to, a family with or without children, an
elderly family, a near-elderly family, a disabled family, a single person, as determined by the DHHL.
Hawaiian Home Lands
means lands that:
(1) Have the status as Hawaiian home lands under section 204 of the HHCA 1920 (42 Stat. 110); or
(2) Are acquired pursuant to the HHCA 1920.
Homebuyer payment
means the payment of a family purchasing a home pursuant to a long-term lease purchase agreement.
Housing area
means an area of Hawaiian Home Lands with respect to which the DHHL is authorized to provide assistance for affordable housing under the Act and this part.
Housing plan
means a plan developed by the DHHL pursuant to the Act and this part, particularly § 1006.101.
HUD
means the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Income
means the term “income” as defined in Section 4(9) of NAHASDA.
Low-income family
means a family whose income does not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that HUD may, for purposes of this paragraph, establish income ceilings higher or lower than 80 percent of the median for the area on the basis of the findings of HUD or the agency that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or unusually high or low family incomes.
Median income
means, with respect to an area that is a housing area, the greater of:
(1) The median income for the housing area, which shall be determined by HUD; or
(2) The median income for the State of Hawaii.
NAHASDA
means the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101
et seq.
).
Native Hawaiian
means any individual who is:
(1) A citizen of the United States; and
(2) A descendant of the aboriginal people, who, prior to 1778, occupied and exercised sovereignty in the area that currently constitutes the State of Hawaii, as evidenced by:
(i) Genealogical records;
(ii) Verification by kupuna (elders) or kama'aina (long-term community residents); or
(iii) Birth records of the State of Hawaii.
Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grant (NHHBG) Funds
means funds made available under the Act, plus program income.
Near-elderly person
means an individual who is at least 55 years of age and less than 62 years of age.
Nonprofit
means, with respect to an organization, association, corporation, or other entity, that no part of the net earnings of the entity inures to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual.
Person with a disability,
as further explained in 28 CFR 35.108, is defined as follows:
(1) Definition of person with a disability. “Person with a disability” means a person who:
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or more major life activities;
(ii) Has a record of having such an impairment;
(iii) Is regarded as having such an impairment;
(iv) Has a disability as defined in section 223 of the Social Security Act; or
(v) Has a developmental disability as defined in section 102 of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act.
(2) Definition of physical or mental impairment. For the purposes of this definition, the term “physical or mental impairment” means:
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more body systems, such as: neurological, musculoskeletal, special sense organs, respiratory (including speech organs), cardiovascular, reproductive, digestive, genitourinary, immune, circulatory, hemic, lymphatic, skin, and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder such as intellectual disability, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disability.
(3)
Nonexhaustive list of physical and mental impairments.
For the purposes of this definition, the term “physical or mental impairment” includes, but is not limited to, contagious and noncontagious diseases and conditions such as the following: orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, and cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, intellectual disability, emotional illness, dyslexia and other specific learning disabilities, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, Human Immunodeficiency Virus infection (whether symptomatic or asymptomatic), tuberculosis, drug addiction, and alcoholism.
(4)
Nonexhaustive list of major life activities.
For the purposes of this definition, the term “major life activities” includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, seeing, hearing, eating, sleeping, walking, standing, sitting, reaching, lifting, bending, speaking, breathing, learning, reading, concentrating, thinking, writing, communicating, interacting with others, and working; and
(ii) The operation of a major bodily function, such as the functions of the immune system, special sense organs and skin, normal cell growth, and digestive, genitourinary, bowel, bladder, neurological, brain, respiratory, circulatory, cardiovascular, endocrine, hemic, lymphatic, musculoskeletal, and reproductive systems. The operation of a major bodily function includes the operation of an individual organ within a body system.
Project-based rental assistance
means rental assistance provided through an agreement for use of a DHHL property or a contract with the owner of an existing structure, where the owner agrees to lease the subsidized units to program participants. Program participants will not retain the rental assistance if they move from the project.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
Tenant-based rental assistance
means a form of rental assistance in which the assisted tenant may move from a dwelling unit with a right to continued assistance. Tenant-based rental assistance under this part also includes security deposits for rental of dwelling units.
Transitional housing
means housing that:
(1) Is designed to provide housing and appropriate supportive services to persons, including (but not limited to) deinstitutionalized individuals with disabilities, homeless individuals with disabilities, and homeless families with children; and
(2) Has as its purpose facilitating the movement of individuals and families to independent living within a time period that is set by the DHHL or project owner before occupancy.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 89 FR 9760, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.20
Grants for affordable housing activities.
(a)
Annual grant.
Each fiscal year, HUD will make a grant (to the extent that amounts are made available) under the Act to the DHHL to carry out affordable housing activities for Native Hawaiian families who are eligible to reside on the Hawaiian Home Lands, if:
(1) The Director has submitted to HUD a housing plan for that fiscal year; and
(2) HUD has determined that the housing plan complies with the requirements of § 1006.101.
(b)
Waiver.
HUD may waive housing plan requirements if HUD finds that the DHHL has not complied or cannot comply with those requirements due to circumstances beyond the control of the DHHL.
§ 1006.30
Waivers.
Upon determination of good cause, the Secretary may, subject to statutory limitations, waive any provision of this part and delegate this authority in accordance with section 106 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3535(q)).

# Subpart B—Housing Plan
§ 1006.101
Housing plan requirements.
The DHHL must submit a housing plan each year prior to the start of its fiscal year. The housing plan has two
components, a five-year plan and a one-year plan, as follows:
(a)
Five-year plan.
Each housing plan must contain, for the 5-year period beginning with the fiscal year for which the plan is first submitted, the following information:
(1)
Mission statement.
A general statement of the mission of the DHHL to serve the needs of the low-income Native Hawaiian families eligible to live on the Hawaiian Home Lands to be served by the DHHL;
(2)
Goals and objectives.
A statement of the goals and objectives of the DHHL to enable the DHHL to serve the needs identified in paragraph (a)(1), of this section during the 5-year period; and
(3)
Activities plans.
An overview of the activities planned during the 5-year period including an analysis of the manner in which the activities will enable the DHHL to meet its mission, goals, and objectives.
(b)
One-year plan.
The housing plan must contain the following information for the fiscal year for which the assistance under the Act is to be made available:
(1)
Goals and objectives.
A statement of the goals and objectives to be accomplished by the DHHL with its annual grant allocation that are measurable in a quantitative way.
(2)
Statement of needs.
A statement of the housing needs of the low-income families served by the DHHL and the means by which those needs will be addressed during the period covered by the plan, including:
(i) A description of the estimated housing needs and the need for assistance for the low-income families to be served by the DHHL, including a description of the manner in which the geographical distribution of assistance is consistent with:
(A) The geographical needs of those families; and
(B) Needs for various categories of housing assistance; and
(ii) A description of the estimated housing needs for all families to be served by the DHHL.
(3)
Financial resources.
An operating budget for the DHHL that includes an identification and a description of:
(i) The NHHBG funds and other financial resources reasonably available to the DHHL to carry out eligible activities, including an explanation of the manner in which NHHBG funds will be used to leverage additional resources; and
(ii) Eligible activities to be undertaken and their projected cost, including administrative expenses.
(4)
Affordable housing resources.
A statement of the affordable housing resources currently available at the time of the submittal of the plan and to be made available during the period covered by the plan, including:
(i) A description of the significant characteristics of the housing market in the State of Hawaii, including the availability of housing from other public sources and private market housing;
(ii) The effect of the characteristics identified under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, on the DHHL's decision to use the NHHBG for:
(A) Rental assistance;
(B) The production of new units;
(C) The acquisition of existing units; or
(D) The rehabilitation of units;
(iii) A description of the structure, coordination, and means of cooperation between the DHHL and any other governmental entities in the development, submission, or implementation of the housing plan, including a description of:
(A) The involvement of private, public, and nonprofit organizations and institutions;
(B) The use of loan guarantees under section 184A of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992; and
(C) Other housing assistance provided by the United States, including loans, grants, and mortgage insurance;
(iv) A description of the manner in which the plan will address the needs identified pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(v) A description of:
(A) Any existing or anticipated homeownership programs and rental programs to be carried out during the period covered by the plan; and
(B) The requirements and assistance available under the programs referred to in paragraph (b)(4)(v)(A) of this section;
(vi) A description of:
(A) Any existing or anticipated housing rehabilitation programs necessary to ensure the long-term viability of housing to be carried out during the period covered by the plan; and
(B) The requirements and assistance available under the programs referred to in paragraph (b)(4)(vi)(A) of this section;
(vii) A description of:
(A) All other existing or anticipated housing assistance provided by the DHHL during the period covered by the plan, including transitional housing; homeless housing; college housing; and supportive services housing; and
(B) The requirements and assistance available under such programs; (viii) A description of:
(A) Any housing to be demolished or disposed of;
(B) A timetable for that demolition or disposition;
(C) A financial analysis of the proposed demolition/disposition; and
(D) Any additional information HUD may request with respect to that demolition or disposition.
(ix) A description of the manner in which the DHHL will coordinate with welfare agencies in the State of Hawaii to ensure that residents of the affordable housing will be provided with access to resources to assist in obtaining employment and achieving self-sufficiency;
(x) A description of the requirements established by the DHHL to:
(A) Promote the safety of residents of the affordable housing;
(B) Facilitate the undertaking of crime prevention measures;
(C) Allow resident input and involvement, including the establishment of resident organizations; and
(D) Allow for the coordination of crime prevention activities between the DHHL and local law enforcement officials; and
(xi) A description of the entities that will carry out the activities under the plan, including the organizational capacity and key personnel of the entities.
(5)
Certifications of compliance.
The DHHL must certify that it:
(i) Will comply with:
(A) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.
) and with the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601
et seq.
), to the extent applicable as described in § 1006.355, in carrying out the Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grant Program; and
(B) Other applicable Federal statutes;
(ii) Will require adequate insurance coverage for housing units that are owned and operated or assisted with NHHBG funds, in compliance with the requirements of § 1006.330;
(iii) Has policies in effect and available for review by HUD and the public governing the eligibility, admission, and occupancy of families for housing assisted with NHHBG funds and governing the selection of families receiving other assistance under the Act and this part;
(iv) Has policies in effect and available for review by HUD and the public governing rents charged, including the methods by which such rents or homebuyer payments are determined, for housing assisted with NHHBG funds; and
(v) Has policies in effect and available for review by HUD and the public governing the management and maintenance of rental and lease-purchase housing assisted with NHHBG funds.
(c)
Updates to plan
—(1)
In general.
Subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, after the housing plan has been submitted for a fiscal year, the DHHL may comply with the provisions of this section for any succeeding fiscal year with respect to information included for the 5-year period under paragraph (a) of this section by submitting only such information regarding such changes as may be necessary to update the 5-year period of the plan previously submitted. Information for the 1-year period under paragraph (b) of this section must be submitted each fiscal year.
(2)
Complete plans.
The DHHL shall submit a complete plan that includes a new five-year plan under this section not later than 4 years after submitting an initial plan, and not less frequently than every 4 years thereafter.
(d)
Amendments to plan.
The DHHL must submit any amendment to the one-year housing plan for HUD review before undertaking any new activities
that are not addressed in the current plan that was reviewed by HUD and found to be in compliance with section 803 of NAHASDA and this part. The amendment must include a description of the new activity and a revised budget reflecting the changes. HUD will review the revised plan and will notify DHHL within 30 days whether the amendment complies with applicable requirements.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 89 FR 9761, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.110
Review of plans.
(a)
Review
—(1)
In general.
Within 60 days of receipt of the housing plan, HUD will conduct a limited review to ensure that the contents of the plan comply with the requirements of § 1006.101, are consistent with information and data available to HUD, and are not prohibited by or inconsistent with any provision of the Act and this part or any other applicable law.
(2)
Limitation.
HUD will review the housing plan only to the extent that HUD considers that the review is necessary.
(3)
Incomplete plans.
If HUD determines that any of the required certifications are not included in the housing plan, the plan shall be considered to be incomplete. HUD may also consider a housing plan to be incomplete if it does not address all of the requirements of § 1006.101, and the DHHL has not requested a waiver of the missing requirement.
(b)
Notice
—(1)
In general.
Not later than 60 days after receiving the housing plan, HUD will notify the DHHL whether or not the plan complies with applicable requirements.
(2)
Notice of reasons for determination of noncompliance.
If HUD determines that the contents of the housing plan do not comply with the requirements of § 1006.101, or are not consistent with information and data available to HUD, or are prohibited by or inconsistent with any provision of the Act and this part or any other applicable law, HUD will specify in the notice under paragraph (b)(1) of this section:
(i) The reasons for noncompliance; and
(ii) Any modifications necessary for the plan to be in compliance.
(3)
Effect of HUD's failure to take action.
If HUD does not notify the DHHL, upon the expiration of the 60-day period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the plan shall be considered to have been determined to comply with the requirements under § 1006.101 and the DHHL shall be considered to have been notified of compliance.

# Subpart C—Eligible Activities
§ 1006.201
Eligible affordable housing activities.
Eligible affordable housing activities are development, housing services, housing management services, crime prevention and safety activities, and model activities. Affordable housing activities under this part are activities conducted in accordance with subpart D of this part to develop, operate, maintain, or support housing for rental or homeownership; or provide services with respect to affordable housing through the activities described in this subpart. NHHBG funds may only be used for eligible activities that are consistent with the DHHL's housing plan.
[89 FR 9761, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.205
Development.
(a) NHHBG funds may be used for the acquisition, new construction, reconstruction, or moderate or substantial rehabilitation of affordable housing for homeownership or rental, which may include:
(1) Real property acquisition;
(2) Acquisition of affordable housing;
(3) Financing acquisition of affordable housing by homebuyers through:
(i) Down payment assistance;
(ii) Closing costs assistance;
(iii) Direct lending; and
(iv) Interest subsidies or other financial assistance
(4) New construction of affordable housing;
(5) Reconstruction of affordable housing;
(6) Moderate rehabilitation of affordable housing, including but not limited to:
(i) Lead-based paint hazards elimination or reduction;
(ii) Improvements to provide physical accessibility for disabled persons; and
(iii) Energy-related improvements;
(7) Substantial rehabilitation of affordable housing, including but not limited to:
(i) Lead-based paint hazards elimination or reduction;
(ii) Improvements to provide physical accessibility for disabled persons; and
(iii) Energy-related improvements;
(8) Site improvement, including recreational areas and playgrounds for use by residents of affordable housing and on-site streets and sidewalks;
(9) The development and rehabilitation of utilities, necessary infrastructure, and utility services;
(10) Conversion;
(11) Demolition;
(12) Administration and planning; and
(13) Other related activities, such as environmental review and architectural and engineering plans for the affordable housing project.
(b)
Multi-unit projects.
NHHBG funds may be used to assist one or more housing units in a multi-unit project. Only the actual NHHBG eligible development costs of the assisted units may be charged to the NHHBG Program. If the assisted and unassisted units are not comparable, the actual costs may be determined based upon a method of cost allocation. If the assisted and unassisted units are comparable in terms of size, features, and number of bedrooms, the actual cost of the NHHBG-assisted units can be determined by pro-rating the total NHHBG eligible development costs of the project so that the proportion of the total development costs charged to the NHHBG Program does not exceed the proportion of the NHHBG-assisted units in the project.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 89 FR 9761, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.210
Housing services.
NHHBG funds may be used for the provision of housing-related services for affordable housing, including:
(a) Housing counseling, as defined in § 5.100, in connection with rental or homeownership assistance must be carried out in accordance with 24 CFR 5.111;
(b) The establishment and support of resident organizations and resident management corporations;
(c) Energy auditing;
(d) Activities related to the provisions of self-sufficiency and other services;
(e) Homelessness prevention activities, which may include short term subsidies to defray rent and utility bills of an eligible family;
(f) Payments to prevent foreclosure on a home;
(g) Other services related to assisting owners, tenants, contractors, and other entities participating or seeking to participate in other housing activities assisted pursuant to the Act and this part.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 81 FR 90660, Dec. 14, 2016; 89 FR 9761, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.215
Housing management services.
NHHBG funds may be used for the provision of management services for affordable housing, including:
(a) The preparation of work specifications;
(b) Loan processing;
(c) Inspections;
(d) Tenant selection;
(e) Management of tenant-based rental assistance;
(f) The costs of operation and maintenance of units occupied by NHHBG eligible families; and
(g) Management of affordable housing projects.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 89 FR 9761, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.220
Crime prevention and safety activities.
NHHBG funds may be used for the provision of safety, security, and law enforcement measures and activities appropriate to protect residents of affordable housing from crime, including the costs of:
(a) Physical improvements for affordable housing to enhance security, such as, fences, monitors, locks, and additional lighting;
(b) Security personnel for affordable housing; and
(c) Equipment for patrols.
§ 1006.225
Model activities.
NHHBG funds may be used for housing activities under model programs that are:
(a) Designed to carry out the purposes of the Act and this part; and
(b) Specifically approved by HUD as appropriate for those purposes.
§ 1006.227
Tenant-based or project-based rental assistance.
NHHBG funds may be used for the provision of tenant-based rental assistance, which may include security deposits and first month's rent, and project-based rental assistance.
(a) Rental assistance must comply with the requirements of this part and be provided to eligible families.
(b) Rental assistance may be provided to eligible families both on and off the Hawaiian Home Lands provided such use is consistent with the applicable appropriations acts governing the use of the NHHBG funds.
[89 FR 9761, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.230
Administrative and planning costs.
Up to such amount as HUD may authorize, or such other limit as may be specified by statute, of each grant received under the Act may be used for any reasonable administrative and planning expenses of the DHHL relating to carrying out the Act and this part and activities assisted with NHHBG funds, including:
(a)
General management, oversight and coordination.
Reasonable costs of overall program management, coordination, monitoring, and evaluation. Such costs include, but are not limited to, necessary expenditures for the following:
(1) Salaries, wages, and related costs of the DHHL's staff. In charging costs to this category the DHHL may either include the entire salary, wages, and related costs allocable to the NHHBG Program of each person whose
primary
responsibilities with regard to the program involves program administration assignments, or the prorated share of the salary, wages, and related costs of each person whose job includes
any
program administration assignments. The DHHL may use only one of these methods. Program administration includes the following types of assignments:
(i) Developing systems and schedules for ensuring compliance with program requirements;
(ii) Developing interagency agreements and agreements with entities receiving NHHBG funds;
(iii) Monitoring NHHBG-assisted housing for progress and compliance with program requirements;
(iv) Preparing reports and other documents related to the program for submission to HUD;
(v) Coordinating the resolution of audit and monitoring findings;
(vi) Evaluating program results against stated objectives; and
(vii) Managing or supervising persons whose primary responsibilities with regard to the program include such assignments as those described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section;
(2) Travel costs incurred for official business in carrying out the program;
(3) Administrative services performed under third party contracts or agreements, including such services as general legal services, accounting services, and audit services; and
(4) Other costs for goods and services required for administration of the program, including such goods and services as rental or purchase of equipment, insurance, utilities, office supplies, and rental and maintenance (but not purchase) of office space.
(b)
Staff and overhead.
Staff and overhead costs directly related to carrying out a project or service, such as work specifications preparation, loan processing, inspections, and other services related to assisting potential owners, tenants, and homebuyers (
e.g.,
housing counseling); and staff and overhead costs directly related to providing advisory and other relocation services to persons displaced by the a project, including timely written notices to occupants, referrals to comparable and suitable replacement property, property inspections, counseling, and other assistance necessary to minimize hardship. These costs may be charged as administrative costs or as project costs under § 1006.205 or service costs under
§§ 1006.210 or 1006.215, at the discretion of the DHHL.
(c)
Public information.
The provision of information and other resources to residents and citizen organizations participating in the planning, implementation, or assessment of projects being assisted with NHHBG funds.
(d)
Indirect costs.
Indirect costs may be charged to the NHHBG Program under a cost allocation plan prepared in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E.
(e)
Preparation of the housing plan and reports.
Preparation of the housing plan under § 1006.101 and performance reports under § 1006.410. Preparation includes the costs of public hearings, consultations, and publication.
(f)
Other Federal requirements.
Costs of complying with the Federal requirements in §§ 1006.370, 1006.375, and 1006.377 of this part. Project-specific environmental review costs may be charged as administrative costs or as project costs, at the discretion of the DHHL.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015; 89 FR 9761, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.235
Types of investments and forms of assistance.
Subject to the requirements of this part and to the DHHL's housing plan, the DHHL has the discretion to use NHHBG funds for affordable housing activities in the form of equity investments, interest-bearing loans or advances, noninterest-bearing loans or advances, interest subsidies, the leveraging of private investments, and other forms of assistance that HUD determines to be consistent with the purposes of the Act. The DHHL has the right to establish the terms of assistance provided with NHHBG funds.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 89 FR 9761, Feb. 12, 2024]

# Subpart D—Program Requirements
§ 1006.301
Eligible families.
(a)
General.
Assistance for eligible housing activities under the Act and this part is limited to low-income Native Hawaiian families who are eligible to reside on the Hawaiian Home Lands, except as provided under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Exception to low-income requirement
—(1)
Other Native Hawaiian families.
The DHHL may provide assistance for homeownership activities, which may include assistance in conjunction with loan guarantee activities to Native Hawaiian families who are not low-income families, as approved by HUD, to address a need for housing for those families that cannot be reasonably met without that assistance. DHHL must determine and document the need for housing for each family that cannot reasonably be met without such assistance.
(2)
HUD approval.
HUD approval is required, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, if the DHHL plans to use grant amounts provided under the Act for assistance in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section. HUD approval shall be obtained by DHHL submitting proposals in its housing plan, by amendment of the housing plan, or by special request to HUD at any time.
(3)
Limitations.
(i) DHHL may use up to 10 percent of the amount planned in its Housing Plan for its fiscal year for families whose income is 81 to 100 percent of the median income without HUD approval. HUD approval is required if DHHL plans to use more than 10 percent of the amount planned for its fiscal year for such assistance or to provide housing for families with income over 100 percent of median income.
(ii) Non-low-income families cannot receive the same benefits provided low-income Native Hawaiian families. The amount of assistance non-low-income families may receive will be determined by DHHL as established in its written policies.
(iii) The requirements set forth in paragraphs 3(i) and (ii) of this section do not apply to other families who are non-low income that DHHL has determined to be essential under paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Other families.
The DHHL may provide housing or NHHBG assistance to a family that is not low-income and is not a Native Hawaiian family without HUD approval if the DHHL documents that:
(1) The presence of the family in the housing involved is essential to the well-being of Native Hawaiian families; and
(2) The need for housing for the family cannot be reasonably met without the assistance.
(d)
Written policies.
The DHHL must develop, follow, and have available for review by HUD written policies governing the eligibility, admission, and occupancy of families for housing assisted with NHHBG funds and governing the selection of families receiving other assistance under the Act and this part.
[89 FR 9761, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.305
Low-income requirement and income targeting.
(a)
In general.
Housing qualifies as affordable housing for purposes of the Act and this part, provided that the family occupying the unit is low-income at the following times:
(1) In the case of rental housing, at the time of the family's initial occupancy of such unit;
(2) In the case of housing for homeownership, at the time of purchase. When DHHL enters into a loan contract with the family for NHHBG assistance to purchase or construct a homeownership unit, the time of purchase means the time that loan contract is executed;
(3) In the case of owner-occupied housing units, at the time the family receives NHHBG assistance;
(4) In the case of a lease-purchase agreement for existing housing or for housing to be constructed, at the time the lease-purchase agreement is signed; and
(5) In the case of emergency assistance to prevent homelessness or foreclosure, at the time the family receives NHHBG assistance.
(b)
Affordability requirements.
NHHBG-assisted rental and homeownership units must meet the affordability requirements for the remaining useful life of the property, as determined by HUD, or such other period as HUD determines in accordance with section 813(a)(2)(B) of the Act.
(c)
Enforceable agreements.
(1) The DHHL, through binding contractual agreements with owners or other authorized entities, shall ensure long-term compliance with the provisions of this part.
(2) The agreements referred to in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall provide for:
(i) To the extent allowable by Federal and State law, the enforcement of the provisions of the Act and this part by the DHHL and HUD; and
(ii) Remedies for breach of the provisions of the Act and this part.
(d)
Exception.
Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, housing assisted with NHHBG funds pursuant to § 1006.301(b) shall be considered affordable housing for purposes of the Act and this part.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 89 FR 9762, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.306
Income verification for receipt of NHHBG assistance.
(a)
Initial determination of eligibility.
DHHL must verify that the family is income eligible based on anticipated annual income. The family is required to provide documentation to verify this determination. DHHL is required to maintain the documentation on which the determination of eligibility is based.
(b)
Periodic verification.
DHHL may require a family to periodically verify its income in order to determine housing payments or continued occupancy consistent with DHHL's written policies. When income verification is required, the family must provide documentation which verifies its income, and this documentation must be retained by DHHL.
[89 FR 9762, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.307
Non-low-income families.
A family that was low-income at the times described in § 1006.305 but subsequently becomes a non-low-income family may continue to participate in the program in accordance with DHHL's admission and occupancy policies. The 10 percent limitation in § 1006.301(b)(3)(i) in this part shall not apply to such families. Such families may be made subject to the additional requirements in § 1006.301(b)(3)(ii) of this part based on those policies.
[89 FR 9762, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.310
Rent and lease-purchase limitations.
(a)
Rents.
The DHHL must develop and follow written policies governing rents for rental housing units assisted with NHHBG funds, including methods by which rents are determined.
(1)
Maximum and minimum rent.
The maximum monthly tenant rent payment for a low-income family may not exceed 30 percent of the family's monthly adjusted income. DHHL may also decide to compute rental or homebuyer payments on any lesser percentage of the adjusted income of the family. The Act does not set minimum rent or homebuyer payments; however, DHHL may do so.
(2)
Flat or income-adjusted rent.
Flat rent means the tenant's rent payment is set at a specific dollar amount or specific percent of market rent. Income-adjusted rent means the tenant's rent payment varies based on the tenant's income (
i.e.,
30 percent of monthly adjusted income). DHHL may charge flat or income-adjusted rents, provided the rental or homebuyer payment of the low-income family does not exceed 30 percent of the family's adjusted income.
(3)
Utilities.
Utilities may be considered a part of rent or homebuyer payments if DHHL decides to define rent or homebuyer payments to include utilities in its written policies on rents and homebuyer payments required by section 811(a)(1) of NAHASDA. DHHL may define rents and homebuyer payments to exclude utilities.
(b)
Lease-purchase.
If DHHL assists low-income families to become homeowners of rental housing through a long-term lease (
i.e.,
10 or more years) with an option to purchase the housing, DHHL must develop and follow written policies governing lease-purchase payments (
i.e.,
homebuyer payments) for rental housing units assisted with NHHBG funds, including methods by which payments are determined. The maximum monthly payment for a low-income family may not exceed 30 percent of the family's monthly adjusted income.
(c)
Exception for certain homeownership payments.
Homeownership payments for families who are not low-income, as permitted under § 1006.301(b), are not subject to the requirement that homebuyer payments may not exceed 30 percent of the monthly adjusted income of that family.
(d)
Applicability.
Low-income families who receive homeownership assistance other than lease-purchase assistance are not subject to the limitations in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[89 FR 9762, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.315
Lease requirements.
Except to the extent otherwise provided by or inconsistent with the laws of the State of Hawaii, in renting dwelling units in affordable housing assisted with NHHBG funds, the DHHL, owner, or manager must use leases that:
(a) Do not contain unreasonable terms and conditions;
(b) Require the DHHL, owner, or manager to maintain the housing in compliance with applicable local housing codes and quality standards;
(c) Require the DHHL, owner, or manager to give adequate written notice of termination of the lease, which shall be the period of time required under applicable State or local law;
(d) Specify that, with respect to any notice of eviction or termination, notwithstanding any State or local law, a resident shall be informed of the opportunity, before any hearing or trial, to examine any relevant documents, record, or regulations directly related to the eviction or termination;
(e) Require that the DHHL, owner, or manager may not terminate the tenancy, during the term of the lease, except for serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease, violation of applicable Federal, State, or local law, or for other good cause; and
(f) Provide that the DHHL, owner, or manager may terminate the tenancy of a resident for any activity, engaged in by the resident, any member of the household of the resident, or any guest or other person under the control of the resident, that:
(1) Threatens the health or safety of, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by, other residents or employees of the DHHL, owner, or manager;
(2) Threatens the health or safety of, or right to peaceful enjoyment of their
premises by, persons residing in the immediate vicinity of the premises; or
(3) Involves criminal activity (including drug-related criminal activity) on or off the premises.
§ 1006.320
Tenant or homebuyer selection.
As a condition to receiving grant amounts under the Act, the DHHL must adopt and use written tenant and homebuyer selection policies and criteria that:
(a) Are consistent with the purpose of providing housing for low-income families;
(b) Are reasonably related to program eligibility and the ability of the tenant or homebuyer assistance applicant to perform the obligations of the lease; and
(c) Provide for:
(1) The selection of tenants and homebuyers from a written waiting list in accordance with the policies and goals set forth in the housing plan; and
(2) The prompt notification in writing of any rejected applicant of the grounds for that rejection.
§ 1006.325
Maintenance, management and efficient operation.
(a)
Written policies.
The DHHL must develop and enforce policies governing the management and maintenance of rental housing assisted with NHHBG funds.
(b)
Disposal of housing.
This section may not be construed to prevent the DHHL, or any entity funded by the DHHL, from demolishing or disposing of housing, pursuant to regulations established by HUD.
§ 1006.330
Insurance coverage.
(a)
In general.
As a condition to receiving NHHBG funds, the DHHL must require adequate insurance coverage for housing units that are owned or operated or assisted with more than $5,000 of NHHBG funds, including a loan of more than $5,000 that includes payback provisions.
(b)
Adequate insurance.
Insurance is adequate if it is a purchased insurance policy from an insurance provider or a plan of self-insurance in an amount to cover replacement cost.
(c)
Loss covered.
The DHHL must provide for or require insurance in adequate amounts to indemnify against loss from fire, weather, and liability claims for all housing units owned, operated or assisted by the DHHL. NHHBG funds may only be used to purchase insurance for low-income homeowners and only in amounts sufficient to protect against the loss of the NHHBG funds at risk in the property. The cost of such insurance may not include coverage for a resident's personal property.
(d)
Exception.
The DHHL shall not require insurance if the assistance is in an amount less than $5000.
(e)
Contractor's coverage.
The DHHL shall require contractors and subcontractors to either provide insurance covering their activities or negotiate adequate indemnification coverage to be provided by the DHHL in the contract.
§ 1006.335
Use of nonprofit organizations and public-private partnerships.
(a)
Nonprofit organizations.
The DHHL must, to the extent practicable, provide for private nonprofit organizations experienced in the planning and development of affordable housing for Native Hawaiians to carry out affordable housing activities with NHHBG funds.
(b)
Public-private partnerships.
The DHHL must make all reasonable efforts to maximize participation by the private sector, including nonprofit organizations and for-profit entities, in implementing its housing plan.
§ 1006.340
Treatment of program income.
(a)
Defined.
Program income is income realized from the use of NHHBG funds. If gross income is used to pay costs incurred that are essential or incidental to generating the income, these costs may be deducted from gross income to determine program income. Program income includes income from fees for services performed; from the use or rental of real or personal property acquired or assisted with NHHBG funds; from the sale of property acquired or assisted with NHHBG funds; from payments of principal and interest on loans made with NHHBG funds;
and from payments of interest earned on investment of NHHBG funds pursuant to section 812(b) of the Act.
(b)
Authority to retain.
The DHHL may retain any program income that is realized from any NHHBG funds if:
(1) That income was realized after the initial disbursement of the NHHBG funds received by the DHHL; and
(2) The DHHL agrees to use the program income for affordable housing activities in accordance with the provisions of the Act and this part; and
(3) The DHHL disburses program income before disbursing additional NHHBG funds in accordance with 2 CFR 200.305.
(c)
Exclusion of amounts.
If the amount of income received in a single fiscal year by the DHHL, which would otherwise be considered program income, does not exceed $25,000, such funds may be retained but will not be considered program income.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015; 89 FR 9763, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.345
Labor standards.
(a)
Davis-Bacon wage rates.
(1) As described in section 805(b) of the Act, contracts and agreements for assistance, sale or lease under this part must require prevailing wage rates determined by the Secretary of Labor under the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a-276a-5) to be paid to laborers and mechanics employed in the development of affordable housing.
(2) When NHHBG assistance is only used to assist homebuyers to acquire single family housing, the Davis-Bacon wage rates apply to the construction of the housing if there is a written agreement with the owner or developer of the housing that NHHBG assistance will be used to assist homebuyers to buy the housing.
(3) Prime contracts not in excess of $2000 are exempt from Davis-Bacon wage rates.
(b)
HUD-determined wage rates.
Section 805(b) of the Act also mandates that contracts and agreements for assistance, sale or lease under the Act require that prevailing wages determined or adopted (subsequent to a determination under applicable State or local law) by HUD shall be paid to maintenance laborers and mechanics employed in the operation, and to architects, technical engineers, draftsmen and technicians employed in the development, of affordable housing.
(c)
Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act.
Contracts in excess of $100,000 to which Davis-Bacon or HUD-determined wage rates apply are subject by law to the overtime provisions of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 327).
(d)
Volunteers.
The requirements in 24 CFR part 70 concerning exemptions for the use of volunteers on projects subject to Davis-Bacon and HUD-determined wage rates are applicable.
(e)
Other laws and issuances.
The DHHL, contractors, subcontractors, and other participants must comply with regulations issued under the labor standards provisions cited in this section, and other applicable Federal laws and regulations pertaining to labor standards.
§ 1006.350
Environmental review.
(a) In order to ensure that the policies of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
) (NEPA) and other provisions of Federal law which further the purposes of that act (as specified in 24 CFR 58.5) are most effectively implemented in connection with the expenditure of NHHBG funds, HUD will provide for the release of funds for specific projects to the DHHL if the Director of the DHHL assumes all of the responsibilities for environmental review, decision-making, and action under NEPA and other provisions of Federal law which further the purposes of that act (as specified in 24 CFR 58.5) that would apply to HUD were HUD to undertake those projects as Federal projects.
(b) An environmental review does not have to be completed before a HUD finding of compliance for the housing plan or amendments to the housing plan submitted by the DHHL.
(c) No funds may be committed to a grant activity or project before the completion of the environmental review and approval of the request for release of funds and related certification required by sections 806(b) and 806(c) of the Act, except as authorized by 24 CFR part 58.
(d) As set forth in section 806(a)(2)(B) of the Act and 24 CFR 58.77, HUD will:
(1) Provide for the monitoring of environmental reviews performed by the DHHL under this section;
(2) At its discretion, facilitate training for the performance of such reviews by the DHHL; and,
(3) At its discretion, provide for the suspension or termination of the assumption of responsibilities under this section based upon a finding of substantial failure of the DHHL to execute responsibilities under this section.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 89 FR 9763, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.355
Nondiscrimination requirements.
Program eligibility under the Act and this part may be restricted to Native Hawaiians. Subject to the preceding sentence, no person may be discriminated against on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, familial status, or disability, or excluded from program eligibility because of actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status. The following nondiscrimination requirements are applicable to the use of NHHBG funds:
(a) The requirements of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101-6107) and HUD's implementing regulations in 24 CFR part 146;
(b) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) and HUD's regulations at 24 CFR part 8; and
(c) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.
) and the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601
et seq.
), to the extent that nothing in their requirements concerning discrimination on the basis of race shall be construed to prevent the provision of NHHBG assistance:
(1) To the DHHL on the basis that the DHHL served Native Hawaiians; or
(2) To an eligible family on the basis that the family is a Native Hawaiian family.
(d) The equal access to HUD-assisted or -insured housing requirements in 24 CFR 5.105(a)(2).
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 81 FR 80993, Nov. 17, 2016]
§ 1006.360
Conflict of interest.
In the procurement of property and services by the DHHL and contractors, the conflict of interest provisions in 2 CFR 200.317 (for DHHL) and 2 CFR 200.318 (for subrecipients).
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 1006.365
Program administration responsibilities.
(a)
Responsibilities.
The DHHL is responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of the NHHBG Program, ensuring that NHHBG funds are used in accordance with all program requirements and written agreements, and taking appropriate action when performance problems arise. The use of contractors does not relieve the DHHL of this responsibility.
(b)
Agreements with contractors.
The DHHL may enter into agreements with private contractors selected under the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, for purposes of administering all or part of the NHHBG program for the DHHL.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 1006.370
Uniform administrative, requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards.
(a) The DHHL and subrecipients receiving NHHBG funds shall comply with the requirements and standards of 2 CFR part 200, “Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards”.
(b)(1) With respect to the applicability of cost principles, all items of cost listed in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, which require prior Federal agency approval are allowable without the prior approval of HUD to the extent that they comply with the general policies and principles stated in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and are otherwise eligible under this part, except for the following:
(i) Depreciation methods for fixed assets shall not be changed without the approval of the Federal cognizant agency.
(ii) Fines, penalties, damages, and other settlements are unallowable costs to the NHHBG program.
(iii) Costs of housing (
e.g.,
depreciation, maintenance, utilities, furnishings, rent), housing allowances and personal living expenses (goods or services for personal use) regardless of whether reported as taxable income to the employees (2 CFR 200.445).
(iv) Organization costs (2 CFR 200.455).
(2) In addition, no person providing consultant services in an employer-employee type of relationship shall receive funds. In no event, however, shall such compensation exceed the equivalent of the daily rate paid for Level IV of the Executive Schedule. The Executive Pay Schedule may be obtained by
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/salaries-wages.
[80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 1006.375
Other Federal requirements.
(a)
Lead-based paint.
The following subparts of HUD's lead-based paint regulations at 24 CFR part 35, which implement the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4822-4846) and the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851-4856), apply to the use of assistance under this part:
(1) Subpart A (§§ 35.80 through 35.98) for disclosures of known lead-based paint hazards upon sale or lease of residential property;
(2) Subpart B (§§ 35.100 through 35.175) for general lead-based paint requirements and definitions;
(3) Subpart H (§§ 35.700 through 35.830) for project-based rental assistance;
(4) Subpart J (§§ 35.900 through 35.940) for rehabilitation;
(5) Subpart K (§§ 35.1000 through 35.1020) for acquisition, leasing, support services, or operation;
(6) Subpart M (§§ 35.1200 through 35.1225) for tenant-based rental assistance; and
(7) Subpart R (§§ 35.1300 through 35.1355) for methods and standards for lead-based paint hazard evaluation and Reduction activities.
(b)
Drug-free workplace.
The Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701,
et seq.
) and HUD's implementing regulations in 2 CFR part 2429 apply to the use of assistance under this part.
(c)
Audits.
The DHHL must comply with the requirements of the Single Audit Act and 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, with the audit report providing a schedule of expenditures for each grant. A copy of each audit must be submitted to the Federal Audit Clearinghouse.
(d)
Housing counseling.
Housing counseling, as defined in § 5.100, that is funded with or provided in connection with NHHBG funds must be carried out in accordance with 24 CFR 5.111.
(e)
Section 3.
Requirements under Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 and 24 CFR part 75 apply.
(f)
Debarment and suspension.
The nonprocurement, debarment, and suspension requirements at 2 CFR part 2424 are applicable.
[89 FR 9763, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.377
Other Federal requirements: Displacement, Relocation, and Acquisition.
The following relocation and real property acquisition policies are applicable to programs developed or operated under the Act and this part:
(a)
Real property acquisition requirements.
The acquisition of real property for an assisted activity is subject to the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.
) (URA) and the requirements of 49 CFR part 24, subpart B.
(b)
Minimize displacement.
Consistent with the other goals and objectives of the Act and this part, the DHHL shall assure that it has taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (households, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a project assisted under the Act and this part.
(c)
Relocation assistance for displaced persons.
A displaced person (defined in paragraph (f) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the URA and the requirements of 49 CFR part 24. A displaced person must be advised of his or her rights under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C.
3601
et seq.
). Whenever possible, minority persons shall be given reasonable opportunities to relocate to comparable and suitable decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwellings, not located in an area of minority concentration, that are within their financial means. For a displaced person with a disability, a unit is not a comparable replacement dwelling under the URA unless it is free of any barriers which would preclude reasonable ingress, egress, or use of the dwelling by such a displaced person in accordance with the definition of “Decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling” at 49 CFR 24.2. Furthermore, the unit must also meet the requirements of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 794) as implemented by HUD's regulations at 24 CFR part 8, subpart C.
(d)
Appeals to the DHHL.
A person who disagrees with the DHHL's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a “displaced person,” or the amount of relocation assistance for which the person is eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the DHHL in accordance with URA requirements of 49 CFR 24.10.
(e)
Responsibility of DHHL.
(1) The DHHL shall certify that it will comply with the URA requirements of 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section. The DHHL shall ensure such compliance notwithstanding any third party's contractual obligation to the DHHL to comply with the provisions in this section.
(2) The cost of required relocation assistance is an eligible project cost in the same manner and to the same extent as other project costs. However, such assistance may also be paid for with funds available to the DHHL from any other source.
(3) DHHL must provide proper and timely distribution of notices to residents in accordance with the URA regulations. This includes the General Information Notice (GIN), the Notice of Relocation Eligibility, the Notice to Owner, and the 90-Day Notice. All notices must be sent in accordance with 49 CFR 24.203 and 24.102. Notices of Relocation Eligibility are typically triggered by the Initiation of Negotiation (ION).
(4) The DHHL shall maintain records in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with this section.
(f)
Definition of displaced person.
(1) For purposes of this section, the term “displaced person” means any person (household, business, nonprofit organization, or farm) that moves from real property, or moves his or her personal property from real property, permanently, as a direct result of rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition for a project assisted under the Act. The term “displaced person” includes, but is not limited to:
(i) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit who moves from the building/complex permanently after the submission to HUD of a housing plan that is later approved;
(ii) Any person, including a person who moves before the date the housing plan is submitted to HUD, that the DHHL determines was displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the assisted project;
(iii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit who moves from the building/complex permanently after execution of the agreement between the DHHL and HUD, if the move occurs before the tenant is provided written notice offering him or her the opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe and sanitary dwelling in the same building/complex, under reasonable terms and conditions, upon completion of the project. Such reasonable terms and conditions include a monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs that do not exceed the greater of:
(A) The tenant-occupant's monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs before the agreement; or
(B) Thirty percent of gross household income.
(iv) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who is required to relocate temporarily, but does not return to the building/complex, if:
(A) The tenant-occupant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied unit, any increased housing costs and incidental expenses;
(B) The tenant-occupant is required to temporarily relocate for more than one year; or
(C) Other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable.
(v) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who moves from the building/complex after he or she has been required to move to another dwelling unit in the same building/complex in order to carry out the project, if either:
(A) The tenant-occupant is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move; or
(B) Other conditions of the move are not reasonable.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section for the definition of “Displaced Person,” a person does not qualify as a “displaced person” (and is not eligible for relocation assistance under the URA or this section), if:
(i) The person moved into the property after the submission of the housing plan to HUD, but before signing a lease or commencing occupancy, was provided written notice of the project, its possible impact on the person (
e.g.,
the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated or suffer a rent increase) and the fact that the person would not qualify as a “displaced person” or for any assistance provided under this section as a result of the project;
(ii) The person meets the definition of “persons not displaced” as defined in 49 CFR 24.2; or
(iii) The DHHL determines the person is not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for an assisted project. To exclude a person on this basis, HUD must concur in that determination in accordance with 49 CFR 24.2.
(3) The DHHL may at any time ask HUD to determine whether a specific displacement is or would be covered under this section.
(g)
Definition of initiation of negotiations.
For purposes of determining the formula for computing the replacement housing assistance to be provided to a person displaced from a dwelling as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition of the real property, the term Initiation of Negotiations (ION) date means the execution of the written agreement covering the acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition (
See
49 CFR 24.2).
[89 FR 9763, Feb. 12, 2024]

# Subpart E—Monitoring and Accountability
§ 1006.401
Monitoring of compliance.
(a)
Periodic reviews and monitoring.
At least annually, the DHHL must review the activities conducted and housing assisted with NHHBG funds to assess compliance with the requirements of the Act and this part. This review must encompass and incorporate the results of the monitoring by the DHHL of all contractors involved in the administration of NHHBG activities.
(b)
Review.
Each review under paragraph (a) of this section must include on-site inspection of housing to determine compliance with applicable requirements.
(c)
Results.
The results of each review under paragraph (a) of this section must be:
(1) Included in a performance report of the DHHL submitted to HUD under § 1006.410; and
(2) Made available to the public.
§ 1006.410
Performance reports.
(a)
Requirement.
For each fiscal year, the DHHL must:
(1) Review the progress the DHHL has made during that fiscal year in achieving goals stated in its housing plan; and
(2) Submit a report in a form acceptable to HUD, within 90 days of the end of the DHHL's fiscal year, describing the conclusions of the review.
(3) DHHL may submit a written request for an extension of the deadline. HUD will establish a new date for submission if the extension is granted.
(b)
Content.
Each report submitted under this section for a fiscal year shall:
(1) Describe the use of grant amounts provided to the DHHL for that fiscal year;
(2) Assess the relationship of the use referred to in paragraph (b)(1), of this section, to the goals identified in its housing plan;
(3) Indicate the programmatic accomplishments of the DHHL; and
(4) Describe the manner in which the DHHL would change its housing plan as a result of its experiences administering the grant under the Act.
(c)
Public availability
—(1)
Comments by Native Hawaiians.
In preparing a report under this section, the DHHL shall make the report publicly available to Native Hawaiians who are eligible to reside on the Hawaiian Home Lands and give a sufficient amount of time to permit them to comment on that report, in such manner and at such time as the DHHL may determine, before it is submitted to HUD.
(2)
Summary of comments.
The report under this section must include a summary of any comments received by the DHHL from beneficiaries under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, regarding the program to carry out the housing plan.
(d)
HUD review.
HUD will:
(1) Review each report submitted under the Act and this part; and
(2) With respect to each such report, make recommendations as HUD considers appropriate to carry out the purposes of the Act.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 89 FR 9764, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.420
Review of DHHL's performance.
(a)
Objective.
HUD will, at least annually, review DHHL's performance to determine whether the DHHL has:
(1) Carried out eligible activities in a timely manner;
(2) Carried out and made certifications in accordance with the requirements and the primary objectives of the Act and this part and with other applicable laws;
(3) A continuing capacity to carry out the eligible activities in a timely manner;
(4) Complied with its housing plan; and
(5) Submitted accurate performance reports.
(b)
Basis for review.
In reviewing DHHL's performance, HUD will consider all available evidence, which may include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1) The DHHL's housing plan and any amendments thereto;
(2) Reports prepared by the DHHL;
(3) Records maintained by the DHHL, including their retention under 2 CFR 200.333, noting that the NHHBG Annual Performance Report is the program's final expenditure report;
(4) Results of HUD's monitoring of the DHHL's performance, including field evaluation of the quality of the work performed;
(5) Audit reports;
(6) Records of drawdowns on the line of credit;
(7) Records of comments and complaints by citizens and organizations; and
(8) Litigation.
(c)
Failure to maintain records.
The DHHL's failure to maintain records may result in a finding that the DHHL failed to meet the applicable requirement to which the record pertains.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 75945, Dec. 7, 2015; 89 FR 9764, Feb. 12, 2024]
§ 1006.430
Corrective and remedial action.
(a)
General.
One or more corrective or remedial actions will be taken by HUD when, on the basis of a performance review, HUD determines that the DHHL has not:
(1) Complied with the requirements of the Act and this part and other applicable laws and regulations, including the environmental responsibilities assumed under § 1006.350;
(2) Carried out its activities substantially as described in its housing plan;
(3) Made substantial progress in carrying out its program and achieving its quantifiable goals as described in its housing plan; or
(4) Shown the continuing capacity to carry out its approved activities in a timely manner.
(b)
Action.
The action taken by HUD will be designed, first, to prevent the continuance of the deficiency; second, to mitigate any adverse effects or consequences of the deficiency; and third, to prevent a recurrence of the same or similar deficiencies. The following actions may be taken singly or in combination, as appropriate for the circumstances:
(1) Issue a letter of warning advising the DHHL of the performance problem(s), describing the corrective actions that HUD believes should be taken, establishing a completion date for corrective actions, and notifying the DHHL that more serious actions may be taken if the performance problem(s) is not corrected or is repeated;
(2) Request the DHHL to submit progress schedules for completing activities or complying with the requirements of the Act and this part;
(3) Recommend that the DHHL suspend, discontinue, or not incur costs for the affected activity;
(4) Recommend that the DHHL redirect funds from affected activities to other eligible activities;
(5) Recommend that the DHHL reimburse its program account or line of credit under the Act in the amount improperly expended and reprogram the use of the funds; and
(6) Recommend that the DHHL obtain appropriate technical assistance using existing grant funds or other available resources to overcome the performance problem(s).
§ 1006.440
Remedies for noncompliance.
(a)
Remedies.
If HUD finds that the DHHL has failed to comply substantially with any provision of the Act or this part, the following actions may be taken by HUD:
(1) Terminate payments to the DHHL;
(2) Reduce payments to the DHHL by an amount equal to the amount not expended in accordance with the Act or this part;
(3) Limit the availability of payments to programs, projects, or activities not affected by such failure to comply; or
(4) Adjust, reduce or withdraw grant amounts or take other action as appropriate in accordance with reviews and audits.
(b)
Exception.
Grant amounts already expended on affordable housing activities may not be recaptured or deducted from future assistance provided to the DHHL.
(c) HUD may, upon due notice, suspend payments at any time after the issuance of the opportunity for hearing pending such hearing and final decision, to the extent HUD determines such action necessary to preclude the further expenditure of funds for activities affected by such failure to comply.
(d)
Hearing requirement.
Before imposing remedies under this section, HUD will:
(1) Take at least one of the corrective or remedial actions specified under § 1006.430 and permit the DHHL to make an appropriate and timely response;
(2) Provide the DHHL with the opportunity for an informal consultation with HUD regarding the proposed action; and
(3) Provide DHHL with reasonable notice and opportunity for a hearing.
(e)
Continuance of actions.
If HUD takes an action under paragraph (a) of this section, the action will continue until HUD determines that the failure of the DHHL to comply with the provision has been remedied and the DHHL is in compliance with the provision.
(f)
Referral to the Attorney General.
In lieu of, or in addition to, any action HUD may take under paragraph (a) of this section, if HUD has reason to believe that the DHHL has failed to comply substantially with any provision of the Act or this part, HUD may refer the matter to the Attorney General of the United States with a recommendation that an appropriate civil action be instituted. Upon receiving a referral, the Attorney General may bring a civil action in any United States district court of appropriate jurisdiction for such relief as may be appropriate, including an action to recover the amount of the assistance furnished under the Act that was not expended in accordance with the Act or this part or for mandatory or injunctive relief.
Pt. 1007

# PART 1007—SECTION 184A LOAN GUARANTEES FOR NATIVE HAWAIIAN HOUSING
Sec.
1007.1
Purpose.
1007.5
Definitions.
1007.10
Eligible Borrowers.
1007.15
Eligible uses.
1007.20
Eligible housing.
1007.25
Eligible lenders.
1007.30
Security for loan.
1007.35
Loan terms.
1007.40
Environmental requirements.
1007.45
Nondiscrimination.
1007.50
Certificate of guarantee.
1007.55
Guarantee fee.
1007.60
Liability under guarantee.
1007.65
Transfer and assumption.
1007.70
Disqualification of lenders and civil money penalties.
1007.75
Payment under guarantee.
1007.80
Qualified mortgage.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715z-13b; 15 U.S.C. 1639c; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1007.1
Purpose.
This part provides the requirements and procedures that apply to loan guarantees for Native Hawaiian Housing under section 184A of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992. Section 184A permits HUD to guarantee an amount not to exceed 100 percent of the unpaid principal and interest that is due on an eligible loan. The purpose of section 184A and this part is to provide access to sources of private financing to Native Hawaiian families who otherwise could not acquire housing financing because of the unique legal status of the Hawaiian Home Lands or as a result of a lack of access to private financial markets.
§ 1007.5
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this part:
Department of Hawaiian Home Lands (DHHL)
means the agency or department of the government of the State of Hawaii that is responsible for the administration of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920 (42 Stat. 108
et seq.
).
Eligible entity
means a Native Hawaiian family, the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands, the Office of Hawaiian Affairs, and private nonprofit or private for-profit organizations experienced in the planning and development of affordable housing for Native Hawaiians.
Family
means one or more persons maintaining a household, and includes, but is not limited to, a family with or without children, an elderly family, a near-elderly family, a disabled family, or a single person.
Guarantee Fund
means the Native Hawaiian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund under this part.
Hawaiian Home Lands
means lands that:
(1) Have the status of Hawaiian Home Lands under section 204 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act (42 Stat. 110); or
(2) Are acquired pursuant to that Act.
HUD
means the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Native Hawaiian
means any individual who is:
(1) A citizen of the United States; and
(2) A descendant of the aboriginal people, who, prior to 1778, occupied and exercised sovereignty in the area that currently constitutes the State of Hawaii, as evidenced by:
(i) Genealogical records;
(ii) Verification by kupuna (elders) or kama'aina (long-term community residents); or
(iii) Birth records of the State of Hawaii.
Native Hawaiian family
means a family with at least one member who is a Native Hawaiian.
Office of Hawaiian Affairs
means the entity of that name established under the constitution of the State of Hawaii.
§ 1007.10
Eligible borrowers.
A loan guaranteed under this part may only be made to the following borrowers:
(a) A Native Hawaiian family;
(b) The Department of Hawaiian Home Lands;
(c) The Office of Hawaiian Affairs; or
(d) A private, nonprofit organization experienced in the planning and development of affordable housing for Native Hawaiians.
§ 1007.15
Eligible uses.
(a)
In general.
A loan guaranteed under this part may only be used to construct, acquire, or rehabilitate eligible housing.
(b)
Construction advances.
Advances made by the lender during construction are eligible if:
(1) The mortgagor and the mortgagee execute a building loan agreement, approved by HUD, setting forth the terms and conditions under which advances will be made;
(2) The advances are made only as provided in the building loan agreement;
(3) The principal amount of the mortgage is held by the mortgagee in an interest bearing account, trust, or escrow for the benefit of the mortgagor, pending advancement to the mortgagor or to his or her creditors as provided in the loan agreement; and
(4) The mortgage bears interest on the amount advanced to the mortgagor or to his or her creditors and on the amount held in an account or trust for the benefit of the mortgagor.
§ 1007.20
Eligible housing.
(a) A loan guaranteed under this part may only be made for one to four-family dwellings that are standard housing, in accordance with paragraph (b), of this section. The housing must be located on Hawaiian Home Lands for which a housing plan that provides for the use of loan guarantees under this part has been submitted and approved under part 1006 of this chapter.
(b) Standard housing must meet housing safety and quality standards that:
(1) Provide sufficient flexibility to permit the use of various designs and materials; and
(2) Require each dwelling unit to:
(i) Be decent, safe, sanitary, and modest in size and design;
(ii) Conform with applicable general construction standards for the region in which the housing is located;
(iii) Contain a plumbing system that:
(A) Uses a properly installed system of piping;
(B) Includes a kitchen sink and a partitional bathroom with lavatory, toilet, and bath or shower; and
(C) Uses water supply, plumbing, and sewage disposal systems that conform to any minimum standards established by the applicable county or State;
(iv) Contain an electrical system using wiring and equipment properly installed to safely supply electrical energy for adequate lighting and for operation of appliances that conforms to any appropriate county, State, or national code;
(v) Be not less than the size provided under the applicable locally adopted standards for size of dwelling units, except that HUD, upon request of the DHHL may waive the size requirements under this paragraph; and
(vi) Conform with the energy performance requirements for new construction established by HUD under section 526(a) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C.A. 1735f-4), unless HUD determines that the requirements are not applicable.
(c) The relevant requirements of the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4821-4846), the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851-4856), and implementing regulations at part 35, subparts A, B, and R of this title and §§ 200.805 and 200.810 of this title apply to housing eligible for a loan guaranteed under this part.
(d) Housing that meets the minimum property standards for Section 247 mortgage insurance (12 U.S.C. 1715z-12) is deemed to meet the required housing safety and quality standards.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 66985, Nov. 28, 2003]
§ 1007.25
Eligible lenders.
(a)
In general.
To qualify for a guarantee under this part, a loan shall be made only by a lender meeting qualifications established in this part and approved by HUD, including any lender described in paragraph (b), of this section, except that a loan otherwise insured or guaranteed by an agency of the Federal Government or made by the DHHL from amounts borrowed from the United States shall not be eligible for a guarantee under this part.
(b)
Approval.
The following lenders shall be considered to be lenders that have been approved by HUD:
(1) Any mortgagee approved by HUD for participation in the single family mortgage insurance program under title II of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C.A. 1707
et seq.
);
(2) Any lender that makes housing loans under chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code, that are automatically guaranteed under section 3702(d) of title 38, United States Code;
(3) Any lender approved by the Secretary of Agriculture to make guaranteed loans for single family housing under the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C.A. 1441
et seq.
);
(4) Any other lender that is supervised, approved, regulated, or insured by any agency of the Federal Government; and
(5) Any other lender approved by HUD under this part.
§ 1007.30
Security for loan.
(a)
In general.
A loan guaranteed under section 184A of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 and this part may be secured by any collateral authorized under and not prohibited by Federal or State law and determined by the lender and approved by HUD to be sufficient to cover the amount of the loan. Eligible collateral may include, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) The property and/or improvements to be acquired, constructed, or rehabilitated, to the extent that an interest in such property is not subject to any restrictions against alienation applicable to Hawaiian Home Lands;
(2) A security interest in non-Hawaiian Home Lands property;
(3) Personal property; or
(4) Cash, notes, an interest in securities, royalties, annuities, or any other property that is transferable and whose present value may be determined.
(b)
Hawaiian Home Lands property interest as collateral.
If a property interest in Hawaiian Home Lands is used as collateral or security for the loan, the following additional provisions apply:
(1)
Approved Lease.
Any land lease for a unit financed under section 184A of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 must be on a form approved by both the DHHL and HUD.
(2)
Assumption or sale of leasehold.
The lease form must contain a provision requiring the DHHL's consent before any assumption of an existing lease, except where title to the leasehold interest is obtained by HUD through foreclosure of the guaranteed mortgage or a deed in lieu of foreclosure. A mortgagee other than HUD must obtain the DHHL's consent before obtaining title through a foreclosure sale. The DHHL's consent must be obtained on any subsequent transfer from the purchaser, including HUD, at foreclosure sale. The lease may not be terminated by the lessor without HUD's approval while the mortgage is guaranteed or held by HUD.
(3)
Liquidation.
The lender or HUD shall only pursue liquidation after offering to transfer the account to another eligible Native Hawaiian family or the DHHL. The lender or HUD shall not sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of or alienate the property except to another eligible Native Hawaiian family or the DHHL.
(4)
Eviction procedures.
Before HUD will guarantee a loan secured by a Hawaiian Home Lands property, the DHHL must notify HUD that it has adopted and will enforce procedures for eviction of defaulted mortgagors where the guaranteed loan has been foreclosed.
(i)
Enforcement.
If HUD determines that the DHHL has failed to enforce adequately its eviction procedures, HUD will cease issuing guarantees for loans under this part except pursuant to existing commitments.
(ii)
Review.
If HUD ceases issuing guarantees for the DHHL's failure to enforce its eviction procedures, HUD shall notify the DHHL of such action and that the DHHL may, within 30 days after notification of HUD's action, file a written appeal with the Deputy Assistant Secretary, Office of Native American Programs (ONAP). Upon notification of an adverse decision by the Deputy Assistant Secretary, the DHHL has 30 additional days to file an appeal with the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing. The determination of the Assistant Secretary shall be final, but the DHHL may resubmit the issue to the Assistant Secretary for review at any subsequent time if new evidence or changed circumstances warrant reconsideration.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 66985, Nov. 28, 2003]
§ 1007.35
Loan terms.
To be eligible for guarantee under this part, the loan shall:
(a) Be made for a term not exceeding 30 years;
(b) Bear interest (exclusive of the guarantee fee under § 1007.55 and service charges, if any) at a rate agreed upon by the borrower and the lender
and determined by HUD to be reasonable, but not to exceed the rate generally charged in the area (as determined by HUD) for home mortgage loans not guaranteed or insured by any agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government;
(c) Involve a principal obligation not exceeding:
(1) 97.75 percent of the appraised value of the property as of the date the loan is accepted for guarantee (or 98.75 percent if the value of the property is $50,000 or less); or
(2) The amount approved by HUD under this section; and
(d) Involve a payment on account of the property:
(1) In cash or its equivalent; or
(2) Through the value of any improvements, appraised in accordance with generally accepted practices and procedures.
§ 1007.40
Environmental requirements.
Before HUD issues a commitment to guarantee any loan or (if no commitment is issued) before guarantee of any loan, there must be compliance with environmental review procedures to the extent applicable under part 50 of this title. If the loan involves proposed or new construction, HUD will require compliance with procedures similar to those required by § 203.12(b)(2) of this title for FHA mortgage insurance.
§ 1007.45
Nondiscrimination.
(a) To the extent that the requirements of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.
) or of the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C.A. 3601
et seq.
) apply to a guarantee provided under this part, nothing in the requirements concerning discrimination on the basis of race shall be construed to prevent the provision of the guarantee to an eligible entity on the basis that the entity serves Native Hawaiian families or is a Native Hawaiian family.
(b) The equal access to HUD-assisted or -insured housing requirements in 24 CFR 5.105(a)(2) apply to this part.
[67 FR 40776, June 13, 2002, as amended at 81 FR 80993, Nov. 17, 2016]
§ 1007.50
Certificate of guarantee.
(a)
Approval process
—(1)
In general.
Before HUD approves any loan for guarantee under this section, the lender shall submit the application for the loan to HUD for examination.
(2)
Approval.
If HUD approves the application submitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, HUD will issue a certificate as evidence of the loan guarantee approved.
(b)
Standard for approval.
HUD may approve a loan for guarantee under this part and issue a certificate under this section only if HUD determines that there is a reasonable prospect of repayment of the loan.
(c)
Effect
—(1)
As evidence.
A certificate of guarantee issued under this part by HUD shall be conclusive and incontestable evidence in the hands of the bearer of the eligibility of the loan for guarantee under this part and the amount of that guarantee.
(2)
Full faith and credit.
The full faith and credit of the United States is pledged to the payment of all amounts agreed to be paid by HUD as security for the obligations made by HUD under this section.
(d)
Fraud and misrepresentation.
This section may not be construed:
(1) To preclude HUD from establishing defenses against the original lender based on fraud or material misrepresentation; or
(2) To bar HUD from establishing regulations that are (on the date of issuance or disbursement, whichever is earlier) partial defenses to the amount payable on the guarantee.
§ 1007.55
Guarantee fee.
The lender shall pay to HUD, at the time of issuance of the guarantee, a fee for the guarantee of loans under this part, in an amount equal to 1 percent of the principal obligation of the loan. This amount is payable by the borrower at closing.
§ 1007.60
Liability under guarantee.
The liability under a guarantee provided under this section shall decrease or increase on a pro rata basis according to any decrease or increase in the amount of the unpaid obligation under the provisions of the loan agreement involved.
§ 1007.65
Transfer and assumption.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any loan guaranteed under this section, including the security given for the loan, may be sold or assigned by the lender to any financial institution subject to examination and supervision by an agency of the Federal Government or of any State or the District of Columbia.
§ 1007.70
Disqualification of lenders and civil money penalties.
(a)
In general
—(1)
Grounds for action.
HUD may take action under paragraph (a)(2) of this section if HUD determines that any lender or holder of a guarantee certificate:
(i) Has failed:
(A) To maintain adequate accounting records;
(B) To service adequately loans guaranteed under this section; or
(C) To exercise proper credit or underwriting judgment; or
(ii) Has engaged in practices otherwise detrimental to the interest of a borrower or the United States.
(2)
Actions.
Upon a determination by HUD that any of the grounds for action in paragraph (a)(1)(i), of this section apply to the holder of a guarantee certificate, HUD may:
(i) Refuse, either temporarily or permanently, to guarantee any further loans made by such lender or holder;
(ii) Bar such lender or holder from acquiring additional loans guaranteed under this part; and
(iii) Require that such lender or holder assume not less than 10 percent of any loss on further loans made or held by the lender or holder that are guaranteed under this part.
(b)
Civil money penalties for intentional violations
—(1)
In general.
HUD may impose a civil monetary penalty on a lender or holder of a guarantee certificate if HUD determines that the holder or lender has intentionally failed:
(i) To maintain adequate accounting records;
(ii) To adequately service loans guaranteed under this section; or
(iii) To exercise proper credit or underwriting judgment.
(2)
Penalties.
A civil monetary penalty imposed under this section shall be imposed in the manner and be in an amount provided under section 536 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C.A. 1735f-1) with respect to mortgagees and lenders under that Act.
(c)
Payment on loans made in good faith.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, if a loan was made in good faith, HUD may not refuse to pay a lender or holder of a valid guarantee on that loan, without regard to whether the lender or holder is barred under this section.
§ 1007.75
Payment under guarantee.
(a)
Lender options
—(1)
Notification.
If a borrower on a loan guaranteed under this part defaults on the loan, the holder of the guarantee certificate shall provide written notice of the default to HUD.
(2)
Payment.
Upon providing the notice required under paragraph (a)(1), of this section, the holder of the guarantee certificate shall be entitled to payment under the guarantee (subject to the provisions of this section) and may proceed to obtain payment in one of the following manners:
(i)
Foreclosure.
The holder of the certificate may initiate foreclosure proceedings (after providing written notice of that action to HUD). Upon a final order by the court authorizing foreclosure and submission to HUD of a claim for payment under the guarantee, HUD will pay to the holder of the certificate the pro rata portion of the amount guaranteed (as determined under § 1007.60) plus reasonable fees and expenses as approved by HUD. HUD's rights will be subrogated to the rights of the holder of the guarantee, who shall assign the obligation and security to HUD.
(ii)
No foreclosure.
Without seeking foreclosure (or in any case in which a foreclosure proceeding initiated under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section continues for a period in excess of 1 year), the holder of the guarantee may submit to HUD a request to assign the obligation and security interest to HUD in return for payment of the claim under the guarantee. HUD may accept assignment of the loan if HUD determines that the assignment is in the best interest of the United States. Upon assignment, HUD will pay to the holder of the guarantee the pro rata
portion of the amount guaranteed (as determined under § 1007.60). HUD's rights will be subrogated to the rights of the holder of the guarantee, who shall assign the obligation and security to HUD.
(b)
Requirements.
Before any payment under a guarantee is made under paragraph (a) of this section, the holder of the guarantee shall exhaust all reasonable possibilities of collection. Upon payment, in whole or in part, to the holder, the note or judgment evidencing the debt shall be assigned to the United States and the holder shall have no further claim against the borrower or the United States. HUD will then take such action to collect as HUD determines to be appropriate.
§ 1007.80
Qualified mortgage.
A mortgage guaranteed under section 184A of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (1715z-13b), except for mortgage transactions exempted under § 203.19(c)(2), is a safe harbor qualified mortgage that meets the ability-to-repay requirements in 15 U.S.C. 1639c(a).
[78 FR 75238, Dec. 11, 2013]
PARTS 1008-1699 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
24 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
24 CFR
85 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter IX
903.7 (a)(1)(iii) and (o) revised
47911
903.15 Revised
47911
903.23 (f) revised
47911
905.308 (b)(10) amended
61568
960.257 (c)(3)(i) amended
27139
964.320 Revised
61568
982.516 (b)(3)(i) amended
27139
983.4 Amended
61568
983.154 (c) introductory text and (1) removed; (c)(2) redesignated as new (c)
61568
1000.42 Revised
61568
2021
24 CFR
86 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter VIII
880.607 (c)(6) added; interim
55701
882.511 (d)(1)(i) revised; (d)(2)(iv) added; (d)(3) amended; interim
55701
884.216 (d) added; interim
55701
Chapter IX
903.7 (o) revised; interim
30792
903.15 (c) added; interim
30793
903.23 (f) revised; interim
30793
966.8 Added; interim
55701
982 Guidance
53207
983 Guidance
53207
2022
24 CFR
87 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter VIII
880.612 Revised
37997
884.224 Revised
37997
886.130 Revised
37997
886.309 (e) amended
37997
886.335 Revised
37997
887 Added
30046
891.582 Added
37997
Chapter IX
984 Revised
30047
2023
24 CFR
88 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter VIII
880 Announcement
56764
882.404 (d) removed
30499
882.515 (a) amended; (b) and (d) revised; (e) and (f) added; eff. 1-1-24
9667
882.516 Heading, (b), (c), and (e) revised
30499
882.808 (i)(1) amended; (i)(4) and (5) added; eff. 1-1-24
9668
884.217 Revised
30499
886.113 (b) and (i) removed
30500
886.123 Revised
30500
886.307 (b), (i), and (m) removed
30500
886.323 Revised
30500
888 Announcement
56764
891.105 Amended; eff. 1-1-24
9668
891.230 Removed; eff. 1-1-24
9668
891.410 (g)(1), (2), and (3)(i) revised; eff. 1-1-24
9668
891.435 (a) and (c)(2) revised; eff. 1-1-24
9669
891.440 Amended; eff. 1-1-24
9669
891.445 (d) amended; eff. 1-1-24
9669
891.510 (f)(1)(iii)(A)(
2
) amended
75233
891.520 Amended; eff. 1-1-24
9669
Amended
75233
891.575 (a)(2) amended
75233
891.610 (e), (g)(1), (2), and (3)(i) revised; eff. 1-1-24
9669
891.655 Amended; eff. 1-1-24
9669
Amended
75233
891.720 (a)(3) revised
75233
891.740 (a)(2) revised
75233
891.750 (b) introductory text, (3), (c)(1), (2), and (3)(i) revised
75234
Chapter IX
902 Authority citation revised
30500
902.3 Amended
30500
902.13 (b)(2) revised
30500
902.20 Removed
30500
902.21 Revised
30500
902.22 Revised
30501
902.24 Removed
30501
902.26 Removed
30501
902.68 Removed
30501
902.101—902.113 (Subpart H) Added
30501
903 Announcement
56764
905 Announcement
56764
Chapter IX
960.102 (b) amended
9669
960.201 (a)(1) revised; eff. 1-1-24
9670
960.206 (b)(6) added
9670
960.253 (a)(3) added; (f)(1) revised
9670
960.255 (e) and (f) added; eff. 1-1-24
9670
960.257 (a)(5) added; (d) amended
9670
(b) revised; (e) and (f) added; eff. 1-1-24
9670
960.259 (c)(2) revised; eff. 1-1-24
9671
960.261 Removed
9671
960.507 Added
9671
960.509 Added
9671
Second (b)(6)(xii) redesignated as (b)(6)(xiii)
12560
960.600 Revised
9675
960.601 (b) amended
9675
964 Announcement
56764
964.125 (a) amended
9675
965.800—965.805 (Subpart I) Removed
30503
966.4 (a)(2)(iii) revised; (l)(2)(ii) amended; (l)(2)(iii) redesignated as (l)(2)(iv); (a)(2)(iv) and new (l)(2)(iii) added
9675
970 Announcement
56764
982.4 (b) amended
30503
982.352 (b)(1)(iv)(A)(
3
) revised
30503
982.401 Revised
30503
982.402 (b)(2) amended
30503
982.405 (a) revised
30503
982.516 (a)(3), (c), (d), (e)(1), and (f) revised; (h) added; eff. 1-1-24
9675
982.552 (b)(6) added; eff. 1-1-24
9676
982.605 (a) revised
30503
982.609 (a) revised
30504
982.614 (a) and (b)(1) revised
30504
982.618 (b) and (c) revised
30504
982.621 Introductory text revised
30504
982.628 (a)(4) revised
30504
983 Announcement
56764
983.2 (c)(4) amended
30504
983.3 (b) amended
30504
983.10 (b)(2)(ii) revised
30504
983.101 (a) through (c) revised
30504
983.103 (d) heading revised; (d)(4) added
30504
985 Authority citation and heading revised
30505
985.1 (b) revised; (c) added
30505
985.201—985.211 (Subpart D) Added
30505
1000 Notification
87899
1003 Notification
87899
1006 Notification
87899
2024
24 CFR
89 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter VIII
880.606 (b) redesignated as (c); new (b) added
101303
880.607 (c)(6) revised; (c)(7) added
101303
882.514 (e) amended
38291
883.302 Amended
96098
883.306 (e) amended
96098
883.701 Amended
96098
883.702 Added
96098
884.215 Introductory text amended
101303
884.216 (d) revised; (e) added
101303
886.127 (c) added
101303
886.327 (c) added
101303
888.113 (a) and (c)(3) revised; (h) revised; (i)(2) and (3) amended
38291
891.125 (c)(3)(iii)(F) amended
38292
891.425 (d) added
101303
Chapter IX
Chapter IX Notification
7612
903.3 (b)(2) amended
38292
903.4 (a)(2)(i) revised
38292
903.6 (c) added
38292
903.7 Introductory text and (f) amended; (a)(1) introductory text, (b)(3), (c), (d), (e)(4), (l)(1)(iii), and (2) revised; (r) redesignated as (s); new (r) added
38292
903.11 (a)(3), (c)(1), and (3) amended
38292
903.12 (b) and (c)(1) revised; (c)(2) removed; (c)(3) redesignated as new (c)(2) and amended
38292
903.13 (b)(1) and (3) amended
38293
903.15 (c) introductory text revised
38293
908.15 Heading revised
38293
908.101 Amended
38293
943.120 (a)(2) amended
38293
945.103 (b)(2) amended
38293
960.202 (c) redesignated as (d); new (c) added
38293
966.4 (l)(3)(i)(A) and (1)(3)(ii) revised; (q) and (r) added
101303
966.8 Removed
101304
972.218 (c)(2)(i) amended
38293
982 Amended
38293
982 Policy statement
65769
982.4 (a) revised; (b) amended
38293
982.54 (b) amended; (d) introductory text, (4)(iii), (14), (18), and (21) through (23) revised; (d)(4)(iv) and (24) through (26) added
38294
982.301 (a) revised; (b)(8), (10), (12), (14), and (15) revised; (c) added
38295
982.305 (a) introductory text, (b)(1) introductory text, (2)(ii), and (c)(4) revised; (b)(3) redesignated as (b)(4); (b)(2) introductory text, new (3), and (f) added
38295
982.352 (a)(5) amended; (b) revised
38296
982.401 Revised
38296
982.402 (b)(2) amended
38296
982.402 Correction: (b)(2) amended
46020
982.404 Revised
38296
982.405 Revised
38298
982.406 Revised
38298
982.451 (a) heading and (b) heading added; (b)(4)(i) introductory text revised; (b)(5)(iii) amended
38300
982.451 (c) added; eff. date delayed indefinitely
38300
982.503 Revised
38300
982.505 (c) revised; (d) removed
38302
982.517 (a)(2) amended; (b) and (e) revised
38302
982.552 (c)(1)(viii) removed; (c)(1)(ix) through (xi) redesignated as (c)(1)(viii) through (x)
38303
982.605 (a) amended
38303
982.609 (a) amended
38303
982.614 (a) revised
38303
982.618 (a) revised; (b) amended
38303
982.621 Introductory text amended
38303
982.623 Revised
38303
982.625 (a) heading, (b) heading, (c)(1) heading, (f) heading, and (g) heading added
38304
982.628 (a)(1) amended; (d) introductory text, (3) introductory text, and (e)(3) revised
38304
982.630 (a) heading, (b) heading, (c) heading, and (d) heading added; (e) revised
38304
982.635 (b)(3) revised; (c)(2)(vii) and (3)(vii) amended
38304
982.641 (d)(2) amended; (d)(3) and (f)(3) revised; (d)(4) added
38304
983 Policy statement
65769
983.2 (c) revised
38304
983.3 Revised
38305
983.4 Amended
38306
983.5 Revised
38307
983.6 Revised
38307
983.10 Revised
38308
983.10 Correction: Second (b)(3) removed
46020
983.11 Added
38309
983.12 Added
38309
983.51—983.59 (Subpart B) Revised
38309
983.51 Correction: First (e)(2)(iii) removed; (e)(2)(ii) added
46020
983.101 (a) and (e) revised
38315
983.103 Revised
38316
983.151—983.156 (Subpart D) Correction: Revised
46020
983.151 Revised
38318
983.152 Revised
38318
983.153 Revised
38318
983.154 Revised
38318
983.154 (g) and (h) added; eff. date delayed indefinitely
38321
983.155 Revised
38318
983.156 Revised
38318
983.157 Added; eff. date delayed indefinitely
38321
983.157 Correction: Removed
46020
983.202 (a) revised
38324
983.203 (f) and (h) revised; (i) amended; (j) added
38324
983.204 Revised
38324
983.204 (e) added; eff. date delayed indefinitely
38325
983.205 Revised
38325
983.206 Revised
38325
983.207 Revised
38326
983.208 Revised
38328
983.210 (a) through (e) revised; (j) removed
38329
983.211 Revised
38329
983.212 Added
38329
983.251 Revised
38331
983.252 Revised
38333
983.253 (a)(1) and (3) revised
38334
983.254 Revised
38334
983.255 (a)(2) and (c)(4) revised
38334
983.257 Revised
38334
983.259 (a) heading added; (b) revised; (c) heading, (d) heading, and (e) heading added
38334
983.260 Revised
38334
983.261 Revised
38335
983.262 Revised
38335
983.301 (b)(1), (c)(2)(i), (f), and (g) revised
38336
983.302 Revised
38337
983.303 (a) amended; (b)(3) and (f) revised; (b)(4) redesignated as (b)(5); new (b)(4) and (c)(3) added
38338
983.352 (b)(1) amended
38338
983.353 (d)(2) revised
38338
985.3 Undesignated introductory text, (b)(1), (3)(i)(B), and (e)(3)(i) amended; (c)(3)(i)(A), (i)(1), (3), (k)(1), (2), (l), (m) heading, (1), (3), (p)(1), and (3)(i)(B) revised
38338
1000.66 Added
49808
1000.302 Amended
38339
1003.609 Added
49808
1005 Revised; eff. 6-18-24
20056
1005 Regulation at 89 FR 20056 eff. date delayed to 12-31-24
50523
1005.749 Correction: (c)(7) and (8) correctly redesignated as (c)(6) and (7); eff. 6-18-24
22084
1005.759 Correction: Second (b), (c) and (d) correctly redesignated as (c), (d) and (e); eff. 6-18-24
22084
1005.805 Correction: (b)(4)(vi) and (vii) correctly redesignated as (b)(4)(v) and (vi); eff. 6-18-24
22084
1006 Authority citation revised
9760
1006.10 Amended
9760
1006.101 Introductory text, (c), and (d) revised
9761
1006.201 Revised
9761
1006.205 (a)(9) revised
9761
1006.210 (g) removed; (h) redesignated as new (g)
9761
1006.215 (e) revised; (f) redesignated as (g); new (f) added
9761
1006.227 Added
9761
1006.230 (f) amended
9761
1006.235 Heading revised
9761
1006.301 Revised
9761
1006.305 (a) and (b) revised
9762
1006.306 Added
9762
1006.307 Added
9762
1006.310 Revised
9762
1006.340 (a) amended
9763
1006.350 (a) amended
9763
1006.375 Revised
9763
1006.377 Added
9763
1006.410 (a)(2) and (c)(1) revised; (a)(3) added
9764
1006.420 (c) heading added
9764
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
24 CFR
90 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter IX
903.7 (o) revised; interim; eff. 4-2-25
11025
903.15 (c)(3)(i)(A) revised; interim; eff. 4-2-25
11025
903.23 (f) revised; interim; eff. 4-2-25
11025
982.507 (c)(2) and (3) revised
894
982.507 Regulation at 90 FR 894 eff. date delayed to 4-20-25
8780
1005 Regulation at 89 FR 20056 compliance date extended
5605
○
