These records shall be made in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration.
(c)
Retention and access.
These records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least one year and shall be made available to authorized representatives of the Secretary, the representative of miners, and other interested persons.
[64 FR 43287, Aug. 10, 1999]
§ 75.801
Grounding resistors.

# [Statutory Provisions]
The grounding resistor, where required, shall be of the proper ohmic value to limit the voltage drop in the grounding circuit external to the resistor to not more than 100 volts under fault conditions. The grounding resistor shall be rated for maximum fault current continuously and insulated from ground for a voltage equal to the phase-to-phase voltage of the system.
§ 75.802
Protection of high-voltage circuits extending underground.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, high-voltage circuits extending underground and supplying portable, mobile, or, stationary high-voltage equipment shall contain either a direct or derived neutral which shall be grounded through a suitable resistor at the source transformers, and a grounding circuit, originating at the grounded side of the grounding resistor, shall extend along with the power conductors and serve as a grounding conductor for the frames of all high-voltage equipment supplied power from that circuit.
(b) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary or his authorized representative may permit ungrounded high-voltage circuits to be extended underground to feed stationary electric equipment if:
(1) Such circuits are either steel armored or installed in grounded, rigid steel conduit throughout their entire length; or,
(2) The voltage of such circuits is nominally 2,400 volts or less phase-to-phase and the cables used in such circuits are equipped with metallic shields around each power conductor,
and contain one or more ground conductors having a total cross sectional area of not less than one-half the power conductor; and,
(3) Upon a finding by the Secretary or his authorized representative that the use of the circuits described in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section does not pose a hazard to the miners.
(c) Within 100 feet of the point on the surface where high-voltage circuits enter the underground portion of the mine, disconnecting devices shall be installed and so equipped or designed in such a manner that it can be determined by visual observation that the power is disconnected, except that the Secretary or his authorized representative may permit such devices to be installed at a greater distance from such area of the mine if he determines, based on existing physical conditions, that such installation will be more accessible at a greater distance and will not pose any hazard to the miners.
[38 FR 4975, Feb. 23, 1973]
§ 75.803
Fail safe ground check circuits on high-voltage resistance grounded systems.

# [Statutory Provisions]
On and after September 30, 1970, high-voltage, resistance grounded systems shall include a fail safe ground check circuit to monitor continuously the grounding circuit to assure continuity and the fail safe ground check circuit shall cause the circuit breaker to open when either the ground or pilot check wire is broken, or other no less effective device approved by the Secretary or his authorized representative to assure such continuity, except that an extension of time, not in excess of 12 months, may be permitted by the Secretary on a mine-by-mine basis if he determines that such equipment is not available.
§ 75.803-1
Maximum voltage ground check circuits.
The maximum voltage used for ground check circuits under § 75.803 shall not exceed 96 volts.
§ 75.803-2
Ground check systems not employing pilot check wires; approval by the Secretary.
Ground check systems not employing pilot check wires will be approved only if it is determined that the system includes a fail safe design causing the circuit breaker to open when ground continuity is broken.
§ 75.804
Underground high-voltage cables.
(a) Underground high-voltage cables used in resistance grounded systems shall be equipped with metallic shields around each power conductor with one or more ground conductors having a total cross sectional area of not less than one-half the power conductor, and with an insulated external conductor not smaller than No. 8 (A.W.G.) or an insulated internal ground check conductor not smaller than No. 10 (A.W.G.) for the ground continuity check circuit.
(b) All such cables shall be adequate for the intended current and voltage. Splices made in such cables shall provide continuity of all components.
[38 FR 4976, Feb. 23, 1973]
§ 75.805
Couplers.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Couplers that are used with medium-voltage or high-voltage power circuits shall be of the three-phase type with a full metallic shell, except that the Secretary may permit, under such guidelines as he may prescribe, no less effective couplers constructed of materials other than metal. Couplers shall be adequate for the voltage and current expected. All exposed metal on the metallic couplers shall be grounded to the ground conductor in the cable. The coupler shall be constructed so that the ground check continuity conductor shall be broken first and the ground conductors shall be broken last when the coupler is being uncoupled.
§ 75.806
Connection of single-phase loads.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Single-phase loads, such as transformer primaries, shall be connected phase-to-phase.
§ 75.807
Installation of high-voltage transmission cables.

# [Statutory Provisions]
All underground high-voltage transmission cables shall be installed only in regularly inspected air courses and haulageways, and shall be covered, buried, or placed so as to afford protection against damage, guarded where men regularly work or pass under them unless they are 6
1/2
feet or more above the floor or rail, securely anchored, properly insulated, and guarded at ends, and covered, insulated, or placed to prevent contact with trolley wires and other low-voltage circuits.
§ 75.808
Disconnecting devices.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Disconnecting devices shall be installed at the beginning of branch lines in high-voltage circuits and equipped or designed in such a manner that it can be determined by visual observation that the circuit is deenergized when the switches are open.
§ 75.809
Identification of circuit breakers and disconnecting switches.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Circuit breakers and disconnecting switches underground shall be marked for identification.
§ 75.810
High-voltage trailing cables; splices.

# [Statutory Provisions]
In the case of high-voltage cables used as trailing cables, temporary splices shall not be used and all permanent splices shall be made in accordance with § 75.604. Terminations and splices in all other high-voltage cables shall be made in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
§ 75.811
High-voltage underground equipment; grounding.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Frames, supporting structures and enclosures of stationary, portable, or mobile underground high-voltage equipment and all high-voltage equipment supplying power to such equipment receiving power from resistance grounded systems shall be effectively grounded to the high-voltage ground.
§ 75.812
Movement of high-voltage power centers and portable transformers; permit.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Power centers and portable transformers shall be deenergized before they are moved from one location to another, except that, when equipment powered by sources other than such centers or transformers is not available, the Secretary may permit such centers and transformers to be moved while energized, if he determines that another equivalent or greater hazard may otherwise be created, and if they are moved under the supervision of a qualified person, and if such centers and transformers are examined prior to such movement by such person and found to be grounded by methods approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary and otherwise protected from hazards to the miner. A record shall be kept of such examinations. High-voltage cables, other than trailing cables, shall not be moved or handled at any time while energized, except that, when such centers and transformers are moved while energized as permitted under this section, energized high-voltage cables attached to such centers and transformers may be moved only by a qualified person and the operator of such mine shall require that such person wear approved and tested insulated wireman's gloves.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.812-1
Qualified person.
A person who meets the requirements of § 75.153 is a qualified person within the meaning of § 75.812.
§ 75.812-2
High-voltage power centers and transformers; record of examination.
The operator shall maintain a record of all examinations conducted in accordance with § 75.812. Such record shall be kept in a book approved by the Secretary.

# High-Voltage Longwalls

# Source:
67 FR 11001, Mar. 11, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 75.813
High-voltage longwalls; scope.
Sections 75.814 through 75.822 of this part are electrical safety standards that apply to high-voltage longwall circuits and equipment. All other existing standards in 30 CFR must also apply to these longwall circuits and equipment where appropriate.
§ 75.814
Electrical protection.
(a) High-voltage circuits must be protected against short circuits, overloads, ground faults, and undervoltages by circuit-interrupting devices of adequate interrupting capacity as follows:
(1) Current settings of short-circuit protective devices must not exceed the setting specified in approval documentation, or seventy-five percent of the minimum available phase-to-phase short-circuit current, whichever is less.
(2) Time-delay settings of short-circuit protective devices used to protect any cable extending from the section power center to a motor-starter enclosure must not exceed the settings specified in approval documentation, or 0.25-second, whichever is less. Time delay settings of short-circuit protective devices used to protect motor and shearer circuits must not exceed the settings specified in approval documentation, or 3 cycles, whichever is less.
(3) Ground-fault currents must be limited by a neutral grounding resistor to not more than—
(i) 6.5 amperes when the nominal voltage of the power circuit is 2,400 volts or less; or
(ii) 3.75 amperes when the nominal voltage of the power circuit exceeds 2,400 volts.
(4) High-voltage circuits extending from the section power center must be provided with—
(i) Ground-fault protection set to cause deenergization at not more than 40 percent of the current rating of the neutral grounding resistor;
(ii) A backup ground-fault detection device to cause deenergization when a ground fault occurs with the neutral grounding resistor open; and
(iii) Thermal protection for the grounding resistor that will deenergize the longwall power center if the resistor is subjected to a sustained ground fault. The thermal protection must operate at either 50 percent of the maximum temperature rise of the grounding resistor, or 150 °C (302 °F), whichever is less, and must open the ground-wire monitor circuit for the high-voltage circuit supplying the section power center. The thermal protection must not be dependent upon control power and may consist of a current transformer and overcurrent relay.
(5) High-voltage motor and shearer circuits must be provided with instantaneous ground-fault protection set at not more than 0.125-ampere.
(6) Time-delay settings of ground-fault protective devices used to provide coordination with the instantaneous ground-fault protection of motor and shearer circuits must not exceed 0.25-second.
(7) Undervoltage protection must be provided by a device which operates on loss of voltage to cause and maintain the interruption of power to a circuit to prevent automatic restarting of the equipment.
(b) Current transformers used for the ground-fault protection specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (5) of this section must be single window-type and must be installed to encircle all three phase conductors. Equipment safety grounding conductors must not pass through or be connected in series with ground-fault current transformers.
(c) Each ground-fault current device specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (5) of this section must be provided with a test circuit that will inject a primary current of 50 percent or less of the current rating of the grounding resistor through the current transformer and
cause each corresponding circuit-interrupting device to open.
(d) Circuit-interrupting devices must not reclose automatically.
(e) Where two or more high-voltage cables are used to supply power to a common bus in a high-voltage enclosure, each cable must be provided with ground-wire monitoring. The ground-wire monitoring circuits must cause deenergization of each cable when either the ground-monitor or grounding conductor(s) of any cable become severed or open. On or after May 10, 2002, parallel connected cables on newly installed longwalls must be protected as follows:
(1) When one circuit-interrupting device is used to protect parallel connected cables, the circuit-interrupting device must be electrically interlocked with the cables so that the device will open when any cable is disconnected; or
(2) When two or more parallel circuit-interrupting devices are used to protect parallel connected cables, the circuit-interrupting devices must be mechanically and electrically interlocked. Mechanical interlocking must cause all devices to open simultaneously and electrical interlocking must cause all devices to open when any cable is disconnected.
§ 75.815
Disconnect devices.
(a) The section power center must be equipped with a main disconnecting device installed to deenergize all cables extending to longwall equipment when the device is in the “open” position. See Figures I-1 and I-2 in Appendix A to this subpart I.
(b) Disconnecting devices for motor-starter enclosures must be maintained in accordance with the approval requirements of paragraph (f) of § 18.53 of part 18 of this chapter. The compartment for the disconnect device must be provided with a caution label to warn miners against entering the compartment before deenergizing the incoming high-voltage circuits to the compartment.
(c) Disconnecting devices must be rated for the maximum phase-to-phase voltage of the circuit in which they are installed, and for the full-load current of the circuit that is supplied power through the device.
(d) Each disconnecting device must be designed and installed so that—
(1) Visual observation determines that the contacts are open without removing any cover;
(2) All load power conductors can be grounded when the device is in the “open” position; and
(3) The device can be locked in the “open” position.
(e) Disconnecting devices, except those installed in explosion-proof enclosures, must be capable of interrupting the full-load current of the circuit or designed and installed to cause the current to be interrupted automatically prior to the opening of the contacts of the device. Disconnecting devices installed in explosion-proof enclosures must be maintained in accordance with the approval requirements of paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of § 18.53 of part 18 of this chapter.
§ 75.816
Guarding of cables.
(a) High-voltage cables must be guarded at the following locations:
(1) Where persons regularly work or travel over or under the cables.
(2) Where the cables leave cable handling or support systems to extend to electric components.
(b) Guarding must minimize the possibility of miners contacting the cables and protect the cables from damage. The guarding must be made of grounded metal or nonconductive flame-resistant material.
§ 75.817
Cable handling and support systems.
Longwall mining equipment must be provided with cable-handling and support systems that are constructed, installed and maintained to minimize the possibility of miners contacting the cables and to protect the high-voltage cables from damage.
§ 75.818
Use of insulated cable handling equipment.
(a) Energized high-voltage cables must not be handled except when motor or shearer cables need to be trained. When cables need to be trained, high-voltage insulated gloves, mitts, hooks, tongs, slings, aprons, or
other personal protective equipment capable of providing protection against shock hazard must be used to prevent direct contact with the cable.
(b) High-voltage insulated gloves, sleeves, and other insulated personal protective equipment must—
(1) Have a voltage rating of at least Class 1 (7,500 volts) that meets or exceeds ASTM F496-97, “Standard Specification for In-Service Care of Insulating Gloves and Sleeves” (1997).
(2) Be examined before each use for visible signs of damage;
(3) Be removed from the underground area of the mine or destroyed when damaged or defective; and
(4) Be electrically tested every 6 months in accordance with publication ASTM F496-97. ASTM F496-97 (Standard Specification for In-Service Care of Insulating Gloves and Sleeves, 1997) is incorporated by reference and may be inspected at any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office, or at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
In addition, copies of the document can be purchased from the American Society for Testing and Materials, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; 610-832-9500;
http://www.astm.org.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.
[67 FR 11001, Mar. 11, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 38386, June 4, 2002; 71 FR 16668, Apr. 3, 2006; 80 FR 52992, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 75.819
Motor-starter enclosures; barriers and interlocks.
Compartment separation and cover interlock switches for motor-starter enclosures must be maintained in accordance with the approval requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of § 18.53 of part 18 of this chapter.
§ 75.820
Electrical work; troubleshooting and testing.
(a) Electrical work on all circuits and equipment associated with high-voltage longwalls must be performed only by persons qualified under § 75.153 to perform electrical work on all circuits and equipment.
(b) Prior to performing electrical work, except for troubleshooting and testing of energized circuits and equipment as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section, a qualified person must do the following:
(1) Deenergize the circuit or equipment with a circuit-interrupting device.
(2) Open the circuit disconnecting device. On high-voltage circuits, ground the power conductors until work on the circuit is completed.
(3) Lock out the disconnecting device with a padlock. When more than one qualified person is performing work, each person must install an individual padlock.
(4) Tag the disconnecting device to identify each person working and the circuit or equipment on which work is being performed.
(c) Each padlock and tag must be removed only by the person who installed them, except that, if that person is unavailable at the mine, the lock and tag may be removed by a person authorized by the operator, provided—
(1) The authorized person is qualified under paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The operator ensures that the person who installed the lock and tag is aware of the removal before that person resumes work on the affected circuit or equipment.
(d) Troubleshooting and testing of energized circuits must be performed only—
(1) On low- and medium-voltage circuits;
(2) When the purpose of troubleshooting and testing is to determine voltages and currents; and
(3) By persons qualified to perform electrical work and who wear protective gloves on circuits that exceed 40 volts in accordance with the following table:
Circuit voltage
Type of glove required
Greater than 120 volts (nominal) (not intrinsically safe)
Rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors.
40 volts to 120 volts (nominal) (both intrinsically safe and non-intrinsically safe)
Either rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors or dry work gloves.
Greater than 120 volts (nominal) (intrinsically safe)
Either rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors or dry work gloves.
(4) Rubber insulating gloves must be rated at least for the nominal voltage of the circuit when the voltage of the circuit exceeds 120 volts nominal and is not intrinsically safe.
(e) Before troubleshooting and testing a low- or medium-voltage circuit contained in a compartment with a high-voltage circuit, the high-voltage circuit must be deenergized, disconnected, grounded, locked out and tagged in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(f) Prior to the installation or removal of conveyor belt structure, high-voltage cables extending from the section power center to longwall equipment and located in the belt entries must be:
(1) Deenergized; or
(2) Guarded in accordance with § 75.816 of this part, at the location where the belt structure is being installed or removed; or
(3) Located at least 6.5 feet above the mine floor.
§ 75.821
Testing, examination and maintenance.
(a) At least once every 7 days, a person qualified in accordance with § 75.153 to perform electrical work on all circuits and equipment must test and examine each unit of high-voltage longwall equipment and circuits to determine that electrical protection, equipment grounding, permissibility, cable insulation, and control devices are being properly maintained to prevent fire, electrical shock, ignition, or operational hazards from existing on the equipment. Tests must include activating the ground-fault test circuit as required by § 75.814(c).
(b) Each ground-wire monitor and associated circuits must be examined and tested at least once each 30 days to verify proper operation and that it will cause the corresponding circuit-interrupting device to open.
(c) When examinations or tests of equipment reveal a fire, electrical shock, ignition, or operational hazard, the equipment must be removed from service immediately or repaired immediately.
(d) At the completion of examinations and tests required by this section, the person who makes the examinations and tests must certify by signature and date that they have been conducted. A record must be made of any unsafe condition found and any corrective action taken. Certifications and records must be kept for at least one year and must be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and representatives of miners.
§ 75.822
Underground high-voltage longwall cables.
In addition to the high-voltage cable design specifications in § 75.804 of this part, high-voltage cables for use on longwalls may be a type SHD cable with a center ground-check conductor no smaller than a No. 16 AWG stranded conductor. The cables must be MSHA accepted as flame-resistant under part 18 or approved under subpart K of part 7.
§ 75.823
Scope.
Sections 75.823 through 75.834 of this part are electrical safety standards applicable to 2,400 volt continuous mining machines and circuits. A “qualified person” as used in these sections means a person meeting the requirements of § 75.153. Other standards in 30 CFR apply to these circuits and equipment where appropriate.
[75 FR 17549, Apr. 6, 2010]
§ 75.824
Electrical protection.
(a)
Trailing cable protection.
The trailing cable extending to the high-voltage continuous mining machine must be
protected by a circuit-interrupting device of adequate interrupting capacity and voltage that provides short-circuit, overload, ground-fault, and under-voltage protection as follows:
(1)
Short-circuit protection.
(i) The current setting of the device must be the setting specified in the approval documentation or 75 percent of the minimum available phase-to-phase short-circuit current, whichever is less; and
(ii) The time-delay setting must not exceed 0.050 seconds.
(2)
Ground-fault protection.
(i) Neutral grounding resistors must limit the ground-fault current to no more than 0.5 ampere.
(ii) Ground-fault devices must cause de-energization of the circuit extending to the continuous mining machine at not more than 0.125 ampere. The time-delay of the device must not exceed 0.050 seconds.
(iii) Look-ahead circuits must detect a ground-fault condition and prevent the circuit-interrupting device from closing as long as the ground-fault condition exists.
(iv) Backup ground-fault devices must cause de-energization of the circuit extending to the continuous mining machine at not more than 40 percent of the voltage developed across the neutral grounding resistor when a ground fault occurs with the neutral grounding resistor open. The time-delay setting of the backup device must not exceed 0.25 seconds.
(v) Thermal devices must detect a sustained ground-fault current in the neutral grounding resistor and must de-energize the incoming power. The device must operate at either 50 percent of the maximum temperature rise of the neutral grounding resistor or 302 °F (150 °C), whichever is less. Thermal protection must not be dependent on control power and may consist of a current transformer and over-current relay in the neutral grounding resistor circuit.
(vi) A single window-type current transformer that encircles all three-phase conductors must be used to activate the ground-fault device protecting the continuous mining machine. Equipment grounding conductors must not pass through the current transformer.
(vii) A test circuit for the ground-fault device must be provided. The test circuit must inject no more than 50 percent of the current rating of the neutral grounding resistor through the current transformer. When the test circuit is activated, the circuit-interrupting device must open.
(3)
Under-voltage protection.
The under-voltage device must operate on a loss of voltage, de-energize the circuit, and prevent the equipment from automatically restarting.
(b)
Re-closing.
Circuit-interrupting devices must not re-close automatically.
(c)
Onboard Power Circuits.
When a grounded-phase indicator light circuit is used and it indicates a grounded-phase fault, the following corrective actions must be taken:
(1) The machine must be moved immediately to a location with a properly supported roof; and
(2) The grounded-phase condition must be located and corrected prior to placing the continuous mining machine back into operation.
[75 FR 17549, Apr. 6, 2010]
§ 75.825
Power centers.
(a)
Main disconnecting switch.
The power center supplying high voltage power to the continuous mining machine must be equipped with a main disconnecting switch that, when in the open position, de-energizes input to all power transformers.
(b)
Trailing cable disconnecting device.
In addition to the main disconnecting switch required in paragraph (a) of this section, the power center must be equipped with a disconnecting device for each circuit that supplies power to a high-voltage continuous mining machine. A disconnecting device is defined as a disconnecting switch or a cable coupler.
(c)
Disconnecting switches.
Each disconnecting switch must be labeled to clearly identify the circuit it disconnects, and be designed and installed as follows:
(1) Rated for the maximum phase-to-phase voltage of the circuit;
(2) Rated for the full-load current of the circuit that is supplied power through the device.
(3) Allow for visual observation, without removing any covers, to verify that the contacts are open;
(4) Ground all power conductors on the load side when the switch is in the “open and grounded” position;
(5) Can only be locked out in the “open and grounded” position; and
(6) Safely interrupts the full-load current of the circuit or causes the current to be interrupted automatically before the disconnecting switch opens.
(d)
Barriers and covers.
All compartments that provide access to high-voltage circuits must have barriers and/or covers to prevent miners from contacting energized high-voltage circuits.
(e)
Main disconnecting switch and control circuit interlocking.
The control circuit must be interlocked with the main disconnecting switch in the power center so that:
(1) When the main disconnecting switch is in the “open” position, the control circuit can only be powered through an auxiliary switch in the “test” position; and
(2) When the main disconnecting switch is in the “closed” position, the control circuit can only be powered through an auxiliary switch in the “normal” position.
(f)
Interlocks.
Each cover or removable barrier providing access to high-voltage circuits must be equipped with at least two interlock switches. Except when the auxiliary switch is on the “test” position, removal of any cover or barrier that exposes energized high-voltage circuits must cause the interlock switches to automatically de-energize the incoming circuit to the power center.
(g)
Emergency stop switch.
The power center must be equipped with an externally accessible emergency stop switch hard-wired into the incoming ground-wire monitor circuit that de-energizes the incoming high-voltage in the event of an emergency.
(h)
Grounding stick.
The power center must be equipped with a grounding stick to be used prior to performing electrical work to assure that high-voltage capacitors are discharged and circuits are de-energized. The power center must have a label readily identifying the location of the grounding stick. The grounding stick must be stored in a dry location.
(i)
Caution label.
All compartments providing access to energized high-voltage conductors and parts must display a caution label to warn miners against entering the compartments before de-energizing incoming high-voltage circuits.
[75 FR 17549, Apr. 6, 2010]
§ 75.826
High-voltage trailing cables.
High-voltage trailing cables must:
(a) Meet existing trailing cable requirements and the approval requirements of the high-voltage continuous mining machine; and
(b) Meet existing ground-check conductor requirements (§ 75.804) or have a stranded center ground-check conductor not smaller than a No. 16 A.W.G.
[75 FR 17549, Apr. 6, 2010]
§ 75.827
Guarding of trailing cables.
(a)
Guarding.
(1) The high-voltage cable must be guarded in the following locations:
(i) From the power center cable coupler for a distance of 10 feet inby the power center;
(ii) From the entrance gland for a distance of 10 feet outby the last strain clamp on the continuous mining machine; and,
(iii) At any location where the cable could be damaged by moving equipment.
(2) Guarding must be constructed using nonconductive flame-resistant material or grounded metal.
(b)
Suspended cables and cable crossovers.
When equipment must cross any portion of the cable, the cable must be either:
(1) Suspended from the mine roof; or
(2) Protected by a cable crossover having the following specifications:
(i) A minimum length of 33 inches;
(ii) A minimum width of 17 inches;
(iii) A minimum height of 3 inches;
(iv) A minimum cable placement area of two and one half-inches (2
1/2
″) high by four and one-quarter inches (4
1/4
″) wide;
(v) Made of nonconductive material;
(vi) Made of material with a distinctive color. The color black must not be used; and
(vii) Made of material that has a minimum compressive strength of 6,400 pounds per square inch (psi).
[75 FR 17549, Apr. 6, 2010]
§ 75.828
Trailing cable pulling.
The trailing cable must be de-energized prior to being pulled by any equipment other than the continuous mining machine. The cable manufacturer's recommended pulling procedures must be followed when pulling the trailing cable with equipment other than the continuous mining machine.
[75 FR 17549, Apr. 6, 2010]
§ 75.829
Tramming continuous mining machines in and out of the mine and from section to section.
(a)
Conditions of use.
Tramming the continuous mining machine in and out of the mine and from section to section must be done in accordance with movement requirements of high-voltage power centers and portable transformers (§ 75.812) and as follows:
(1) The power source must not be located in areas where permissible equipment is required;
(2) The continuous mining machine must not be used for mining or cutting purposes, unless a power center is used in accordance with §§ 75.823 through 75.828 and §§ 75.830 through 75.833;
(3) Low-, medium-, and high-voltage cables must comply with §§ 75.600-1, 75.907, and 75.826, as applicable; and
(4) The energized high-voltage cable must be mechanically secured onboard the continuous mining machine. This provision applies only when using the power sources specified in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section.
(b)
Testing prior to tramming.
Prior to tramming the continuous mining machine,
(1) A qualified person must activate the ground-fault and ground-wire monitor test circuits of the power sources specified in paragraph (c) of this section to assure that the corresponding circuit-interrupting device opens the circuit. Corrective actions and recordkeeping resulting from these tests must be in accordance with §§ 75.832(f) and (g).
(2) Where applicable, a person designated by the mine operator must activate the test circuit for the grounded-phase detection circuit on the continuous mining machine to assure that the detection circuit is functioning properly. Corrective actions resulting from this test must be in accordance with § 75.832(f).
(c)
Power sources.
In addition to the power center specified in § 75.825, the following power sources may be used to tram the continuous mining machine.
(1)
Medium-voltage power source.
A medium-voltage power source is a source that supplies 995 volts through a trailing cable (See Figure 1 of this section) to the continuous mining machine. The medium-voltage power source must—
(i) Not be used to back-feed the high-voltage circuits of the continuous mining machine; and
(ii) Meet all applicable requirements for medium-voltage circuits in 30 CFR 75.
ER06AP10.002
(2)
Step-up transformer.
A step-up transformer is a transformer that steps up the low or medium voltage to high voltage (See Figure 2 in this section) and must meet the following requirements:
(i) The trailing cable supplying low or medium voltage to the step-up transformer must meet the applicable requirements of 30 CFR part 75;
(ii) The high-voltage circuit output of the step-up transformer supplying power to the continuous mining machine must meet the applicable provisions of § 75.824;
(iii) The step-up transformer enclosure must be—
(A) Securely mounted to minimize vibration on:
(
1
) The continuous mining machine; or
(
2
) A sled/cart that must be connected to the continuous mining machine by a tow-bar and be in close proximity to the mining machine.
(B) Grounded as follows:
(
1
) Connected to the incoming ground conductor of the low- or medium-voltage trailing cable;
(
2
) Bonded by a No. 1/0 A.W.G. or larger external grounding conductor to the continuous mining machine frame; and
(
3
) Bonded by a No. 1/0 A.W.G. or larger external grounding conductor to the metallic shell of each cable coupler.
(C) Equipped with:
(
1
) At least two interlock switches for each of the enclosure covers; and
(
2
) An external emergency stop switch to remove input power to the step-up transformer.
ER06AP10.003
[75 FR 17549, Apr. 6, 2010]
§ 75.830
Splicing and repair of trailing cables.
(a)
Splices and repairs.
(1) Splicing means the mechanical joining of one or more severed conductors in a single length of a cable including the replacement of: Insulation, semi-conductive tape, metallic shielding, and the outer jacket(s).
(2) Repair means to fix damage to any component of the cable other than the conductor.
(3) Splices and repairs to high-voltage trailing cables must be made:
(i) Only by a qualified person trained in the proper methods of splicing and repairing high-voltage trailing cables;
(ii) In a workman-like manner;
(iii) In accordance with § 75.810; and
(iv) Using only MSHA-approved high-voltage kits that include instructions for outer-jacket repairs and splices.
(b)
Splicing limitations.
(1) Splicing of the high-voltage trailing cable within 35 feet of the continuous mining machine is prohibited.
(2) Only four (4) splices will be allowed at any one time for the portion of the trailing cable that extends from the continuous miner outby for a distance of 300 feet.
[75 FR 17549, Apr. 6, 2010]
§ 75.831
Electrical work; troubleshooting and testing.
(a)
Trailing cable and continuous mining machine electrical work procedures.
Prior to performing electrical work, other than troubleshooting and testing, on the high-voltage trailing cable or the continuous mining machine, a
qualified person must de-energize the power center and follow procedures specified in paragraph (1) or (2):
(1) If a trailing cable disconnecting switch is provided:
(i) Open and ground the power conductors, lock out and tag the disconnecting switch; and
(ii) Lock out and tag the plug to the power receptacle.
(2) If a trailing cable disconnecting switch is not provided and a cable coupler is used as a disconnecting device:
(i) Remove the plug from the power receptacle and connect it to the grounding receptacle;
(ii) Lock out and tag the plug to the grounding receptacle; and
(iii) Place a dust cover over the power receptacle.
(b)
Troubleshooting and testing the trailing cable.
During troubleshooting and testing, the de-energized high-voltage cable may be disconnected from the power center only for that period of time necessary to locate the defective condition. Prior to troubleshooting and testing trailing cables, a qualified person must perform the following:
(1) If a trailing cable disconnecting switch is provided:
(i) Open and ground power conductors and lock out and tag the disconnecting switch;
(ii) Disconnect the plug from the power receptacle;
(iii) Lock out and tag the plug; and
(iv) Place a dust cover over the power receptacle.
(2) If a trailing cable disconnecting switch is not provided and a cable coupler is used as a disconnecting device:
(i) Remove the plug from the power receptacle and connect it to the grounding receptacle to ground the power conductors;
(ii) Remove the plug from the grounding receptacle and install a lock and tag on the plug; and
(iii) Place a dust cover over the power receptacle.
(c)
Troubleshooting and testing limitations.
Troubleshooting and testing energized circuits must be performed only:
(1) On low- and medium-voltage circuits;
(2) When the purpose of troubleshooting and testing is to determine voltages and currents;
(3) By qualified persons; and
(4) When using protective gloves in accordance with the following table:
Circuit voltage
Type of glove required
Greater than 120 volts (nominal) (not intrinsically safe)
Rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors.
40 volts to 120 volts (nominal) (both intrinsically safe and non-intrinsically safe)
Either rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors or dry work gloves.
Greater than 120 volts (nominal) (intrinsically safe)
Either rubber insulating gloves with leather protectors or dry work gloves.
(d)
Power center electrical work procedures.
Before any work is performed inside any compartment of the power center, except for troubleshooting and testing energized circuits as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, a qualified person must:
(1) De-energize affected circuits;
(2) Open the corresponding disconnecting switch, lock it out, and tag it to assure the circuit is isolated;
(3) Visually verify that the contacts of the disconnecting switch are open and grounded; and
(4) Discharge all high-voltage capacitors and circuits.
(e)
Locking out and tagging responsibilities.
(1) When more than one qualified person is performing electrical work, including troubleshooting and testing, each person must install an individual lock and tag. Each lock and tag must be removed only by the persons who installed them.
(2) If the person who installed the lock and tag is unavailable, the lock and tag may be removed by a person authorized by the operator, provided that:
(i) The authorized person is a qualified person; and
(ii) The mine operator assures that the person who installed the lock and tag is aware that the lock and tag have been removed.
[75 FR 17549, Apr. 6, 2010]
§ 75.832
Frequency of examinations; recordkeeping.
(a)
Continuous mining machine examination.
At least once every 7 days, a qualified person must examine each high-voltage continuous mining machine to verify that electrical protection, equipment grounding, permissibility, cable insulation, and control devices are properly installed and maintained.
(b)
Ground-fault test circuit.
At least once every 7 days, and prior to tramming the high-voltage continuous mining machine, a qualified person must activate the ground-fault test circuit to verify that it will cause the corresponding circuit-interrupting device to open.
(c)
Ground-wire monitor test.
At least once every 7 days, and prior to tramming the high-voltage continuous mining machine, a qualified person must examine and test each high-voltage continuous mining machine ground-wire monitor circuit to verify that it will cause the corresponding circuit-interrupting device to open.
(d)
Trailing cable inspections.
(1) Once each day during the shift that the continuous mining machine is first energized, a qualified person must de-energize and inspect the entire length of the high-voltage trailing cable from the power center to the continuous mining machine. The inspection must include examination of the outer jacket repairs and splices for damage, and assure guarding is provided where required.
(2) At the beginning of each shift that the continuous mining machine is energized, a person designated by the mine operator must de-energize and visually inspect the high-voltage trailing cable for damage to the outer jacket. This inspection must be conducted from the continuous mining machine to the following locations:
(i) The last open crosscut;
(ii) Within 150 feet of the working place during retreat or second mining; or
(iii) Up to 150 feet from the continuous mining machine when the machine is used in outby areas.
(e)
Grounded-phase detection test.
When a grounded-phase test circuit is provided on a high-voltage continuous mining machine, a person designated by the mine operator must activate the test circuit at the beginning of each production shift to assure that the detection circuit is functioning properly.
(f)
Corrective action.
When examinations or tests of equipment reveal a risk of fire, electrical shock, ignition, or operational hazard, the equipment must be immediately removed from service or repaired.
(g)
Record of tests.
(1) At the completion of examinations and tests required under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, the person conducting the examinations and tests must:
(i) Certify by signature and date that the examinations and tests have been conducted.
(ii) Make a record of any unsafe condition found.
(2) Any corrective action(s) must be recorded by the person taking the corrective action.
(3) The record must be countersigned by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official by the end of the mine foreman's or the equivalent mine official's next regularly scheduled working shift.
(4) Records must be maintained in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration.
(5) Certifications and records must be kept for at least 1 year and must be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and representatives of miners.
[75 FR 17549, Apr. 6, 2010]
§ 75.833
Handling high-voltage trailing cables.
(a)
Cable handling.
(1) Miners must not handle energized trailing cables unless they are wearing high-voltage insulating gloves, which include the rubber gloves and leather outer protector gloves, or are using insulated cable handling tools that meet the requirements of paragraph (c) or (d) of this section.
(2) Miners must not handle energized high-voltage cables with any parts of their bodies except by hand in accordance with paragraph (1) above.
(b)
Availability.
Each mine operator must make high-voltage insulating
gloves or insulated cable handling tools available to miners handling energized high-voltage trailing cables.
(c)
High-voltage insulating gloves.
High-voltage insulating gloves must meet the following requirements:
(1) The rubber gloves must be designed and maintained to have a voltage rating of at least Class 1 (7,500 volts) and tested every 30 days in accordance with publication ASTM F496-02a, “Standard Specification for In-Service Care of Insulating Gloves and Sleeves” (2002). The Director of the Federal Register approved this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 522(a) and 1 CFR part 51. ASTM F496-02a may be obtained from the American Society for Testing and Materials, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959, call 610-832-9500 or go to
http://www.astm.org.
ASTM F496-02a is available for inspection at any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office, at the MSHA Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(2) The rubber glove portion must be air-tested at the beginning of each shift to assure its effectiveness.
(3) Both the leather protector and rubber insulating gloves must be visually examined before each use for signs of damage or defects.
(4) Damaged rubber gloves must be removed from the underground area of the mine or destroyed. Leather protectors must be maintained in good condition or replaced.
(d)
Insulated cable handling tools.
Insulated cable handling tools must be:
(1) Rated and properly maintained to withstand at least 7,500 volts;
(2) Designed and manufactured for cable handling;
(3) Visually examined before each use for signs of damage or defects; and
(4) Removed from the underground area of the mine or destroyed if damaged or defective.
[75 FR 17549, Apr. 6, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 52992, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 75.834
Training.
In addition to existing part 48 task training, hazard training, training for qualified persons under existing § 75.153, and annual refresher training, the following specialized training shall be provided and specified in the part 48 plan:
(a) Training for miners who perform maintenance on high-voltage continuous mining machines in high-voltage safety, testing, and repair and maintenance procedures.
(b) Training for personnel who work in the vicinity of high-voltage continuous mining machines in safety procedures and precautions for moving the high-voltage machines or the trailing cables.
[75 FR 17549, Apr. 6, 2010]
Pt. 75, Subpt. I, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart I of Part 75—Diagrams of Inby and Outby Switching
ER17AP02.030
[67 FR 11001, Mar. 11, 2002; 67 FR 18823, Apr. 17, 2002]

# Subpart J—Underground Low- and Medium-Voltage Alternating Current Circuits
§ 75.900
Low- and medium-voltage circuits serving three-phase alternating current equipment; circuit breakers.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Low- and medium-voltage power circuits serving three-phase alternating current equipment shall be protected by suitable circuit breakers of adequate interrupting capacity which are properly tested and maintained as prescribed by the Secretary. Such breakers shall be equipped with devices to provide protection against undervoltage, grounded phase, short circuit, and overcurrent.
§ 75.900-1
Circuit breakers; location.
Circuit breakers used to protect low-and medium-voltage circuits underground shall be located in areas which are accessible for inspection, examination, and testing, have safe roofs, and are clear of any moving equipment used in haulageways.
§ 75.900-2
Approved circuit schemes.
The following circuit schemes will be regarded as providing the necessary protection to the circuit required by § 75.900:
(a) Ground check relays may be used for undervoltage protection if the relay coils are designed to trip the circuit breaker when line voltage decreases to 40 to 60 percent of the nominal line voltage.
(b) One undervoltage device installed in the main secondary circuit at the source transformer may be used to provide undervoltage protection for each circuit that receives power from that transformer.
(c) One circuit breaker may be used to protect two or more branch circuits if the circuit breaker is adjusted to afford overcurrent protection for the smallest conductor.
(d) Circuit breakers with shunt trip, series trip or undervoltage release devices may be used if the tripping elements of such devices are selected or adjusted in accordance with the settings listed in the tables of the National Electric Code, 1968.
§ 75.900-3
Testing, examination, and maintenance of circuit breakers; procedures.
Circuit breakers protecting low- and medium-voltage alternating current circuits serving three-phase alternating current equipment and their auxiliary devices shall be tested and examined at least once each month by a person qualified as provided in § 75.153. In performing such tests, actuating any of the circuit breaker auxiliaries or control circuits in any manner which causes the circuit breaker to open, shall be considered a proper test. All components of the circuit breaker and its auxiliary devices shall be visually examined and such repairs or adjustments as are indicated by such tests and examinations shall be carried out immediately.
§ 75.900-4
Testing, examination, and maintenance of circuit breakers; record.
The operator of any coal mine shall maintain a written record of each test, examination, repair, or adjustment of all circuit breakers protecting low- and medium-voltage circuits serving three-phase alternating current equipment used in the mine. Such record shall be kept in a book approved by the Secretary.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.901
Protection of low- and medium-voltage three-phase circuits used underground.

# [Statutory Provisions]
(a) Low- and medium-voltage three-phase alternating-current circuits used underground shall contain either a direct or derived neutral which shall be grounded through a suitable resistor at the power center, and a grounding circuit, originating at the grounded side of the grounding resistor, shall extend along with the power conductors and serve as a grounding conductor for the frames of all the electrical equipment supplied power from that circuit, except that the Secretary or his authorized representative may permit
ungrounded low- and medium-voltage circuits to be used underground to feed such stationary electrical equipment if such circuits are either steel armored or installed in grounded rigid steel conduit throughout their entire length. The grounding resistor, where required, shall be of the proper ohmic value to limit the ground fault current to 25 amperes. The grounding resistor shall be rated for maximum fault current continuously and insulated from ground for a voltage equal to the phase-to-phase voltage of the system.
(b) Diesel-powered electrical generators used as an alternative to power centers for the purpose of moving equipment in, out, and around the mine, and to perform work in areas where permissible equipment is not required, must comply with the following:
(1) The diesel engine powering the electrical generator must be approved under 30 CFR part 7, subpart E.
(2) A grounding resistor rated for the phase-to-phase voltage of the system must be provided to limit the ground-fault current to not more than 0.5 amperes. The grounding resistor(s) must be located:
(i) Between the wye-connected generator neutral and the generator frame; (see Figure I in Appendix A to subpart J of this part) or
(ii) Between the wye-connected generator neutral and the generator frame and between the wye-connected transformer secondary and the transformer frame when an isolation transformer(s) is used and the generator is supplying power to the other equipment; (see Figure II in Appendix A to subpart J of this part) or
(iii) Between the wye-connected generator neutral and the generator frame when an auto-transformer is used. (see Figure III in Appendix A to subpart J of this part)
(3) Each three-phase output circuit of the generator must be equipped with a sensitive ground fault relay. The protective relay must be set to cause the circuit interrupting device that supplies power to the primary windings of each transformer to trip and shut down the diesel engine when a phase-to-frame fault of not more than 90 milliamperes occurs.
(4) Each three-phase output circuit that supplies power to equipment must be equipped with an instantaneous sensitive ground-fault relay that will cause its respective circuit interrupting device(s) to trip and cause shutdown of the diesel engine when a phase-to-frame fault occurs. The grounded-phase protection must be set at not more than 90 milliamps. Current transformers used for the ground-fault protection must be single window-type and must be installed to encircle all three phase conductors. Equipment safety grounding conductors must not pass through or be connected in series with ground-fault current transformers.
(5) Each three-phase circuit interrupting device must be provided with a means to provide short-circuit, overcurrent, grounded-phase, undervoltage, and ground wire monitoring protection. The instantaneous only trip unit for the circuit interrupting device(s) in use must be adjusted to trip at not more than 75 percent of the minimum available short circuit current at the point where the portable cable enters the equipment or the maximum allowable instantaneous settings specified in § 75.601-1, whichever is less.
(6) The equipment portable cable length(s) must not exceed the length(s) specified in 30 CFR part 18, appendix I, table 9, Specifications for Cables Longer than 500 Feet.
(7) Permanent label(s) listing the maximum circuit interrupting device setting(s) and maximum portable cable length(s) must be installed on each instantaneous trip unit or be maintained near each three-phase circuit interrupting device. The permanent label(s) must be maintained legibly.
(8) The circuit interrupting device that supplies three-phase power circuit(s) to the equipment being powered must be limited to the use of only one circuit interrupting device at a time when equipment is being moved in, out, and around the mine.
(9) The grounding system must include an MSHA-accepted ground wire monitor system that satisfies the requirements of § 75.902; or have a No. 1/0 or larger external grounding conductor to bond and ground the frames of all
equipment to the frame of the generator.
(10) All trailing cables extending from the generator to equipment must comply with § 75.907.
(11) A strain relief device must be provided on each end of the trailing cables that extends between the generator and the piece of equipment being powered.
(12) Prior to moving each piece of equipment or performing work, a functional test of each ground fault and ground wire monitor system must be performed by a qualified electrician who meets the requirements of § 75.153. The ground-fault circuit must be tested without subjecting the circuit to an actual grounded phase condition. A record of each test must be maintained and made available to authorized representatives of the Secretary and to the miners in such mine.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 70 FR 77736, Dec. 30, 2005]
§ 75.902
Low- and medium-voltage ground check monitor circuits.

# [Statutory Provisions]
On or before September 30, 1970, low- and medium-voltage resistance grounded systems shall include a fail-safe ground check circuit to monitor continuously the grounding circuit to assure continuity which ground check circuit shall cause the circuit breaker to open when either the ground or pilot check wire is broken, or other no less effective device approved by the Secretary or his authorized representative to assure such continuity, except that an extension of time, not in excess of 12 months, may be permitted by the Secretary on a mine-by-mine basis if he determines that such equipment is not available. Cable couplers shall be constructed so that the ground check continuity conductor shall be broken first and the ground conductors shall be broken last when the coupler is being uncoupled.
§ 75.902-1
Maximum voltage ground check circuits.
The maximum voltage used for such ground check circuits shall not exceed 40 volts.
§ 75.902-2
Approved ground check systems not employing pilot check wires.
Ground check systems not employing pilot check wires will be approved only if it is determined that the system includes a fail safe design causing the circuit breaker to open when ground continuity is broken.
§ 75.902-4
Attachment of ground conductors and ground check wires to equipment frames; use of separate connections.
In grounding equipment frames of all stationary, portable or mobile equipment receiving power from resistance grounded systems separate connections shall be used when practicable.
§ 75.903
Disconnecting devices.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Disconnecting devices shall be installed in conjunction with the circuit breaker to provide visual evidence that the power is disconnected.
§ 75.904
Identification of circuit breakers.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Circuit breakers shall be marked for identification.
§ 75.905
Connection of single-phase loads.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Single-phase loads shall be connected phase-to-phase.
§ 75.906
Trailing cables for mobile equipment, ground wires, and ground check wires.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Trailing cables for mobile equipment shall contain one or more ground conductors having a cross-sectional area of not less than one-half the power conductor, and, on September 30, 1970, an insulated conductor for the ground continuity check circuit or other no less effective device approved by the Secretary or his authorized representative to assure such continuity, except that an extension of time, not in excess of 12 months may be permitted by the
Secretary on a mine-by-mine basis if he determines that such equipment is not available. Splices made in the cables shall provide continuity of all components.
§ 75.907
Design of trailing cables for medium-voltage circuits.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Trailing cables for medium-voltage circuits shall include grounding conductors, a ground check conductor, and grounded metallic shields around each power conductor or a ground metallic shield over the assembly, except that on equipment employing cable reels, cables without shields may be used if the insulation is rated 2,000 volts or more.
Pt. 75, Subpt. J, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart J of Part 75
ER30DE05.146
ER30DE05.147
ER30DE05.148
[70 FR 77737, Dec. 30, 2005]

# Subpart K—Trolley Wires and Trolley Feeder Wires
§ 75.1000
Cutout switches.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Trolley wires and trolley feeder wires, shall be provided with cutout switches at intervals of not more than 2,000 feet and near the beginning of all branch lines.
§ 75.1001
Overcurrent protection.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Trolley wires and trolley feeder wires shall be provided with overcurrent protection.
§ 75.1001-1
Devices for overcurrent protection; testing and calibration requirements; records.
(a) Automatic circuit interrupting devices that will deenergize the affected circuit upon occurrence of a short circuit at any point in the system will meet the requirements of § 75.1001.
(b) Automatic circuit interrupting devices described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be tested and calibrated at intervals not to exceed six months. Testing of such devices shall include passing the necessary amount of electric current through the device to cause activation. Calibration of such devices shall include adjustment of all associated relays to ±15 percent of the indicated value. An authorized representative of the Secretary may require additional testing or calibration of these devices.
(c) A record of the tests and calibrations required by paragraph (b) of this section shall be kept, and shall be made available, upon request, to an authorized representative of the Secretary.
[38 FR 29998, Oct. 31, 1973, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.1002
Installation of electric equipment and conductors; permissibility.
(a) Electric equipment must be permissible and maintained in a permissible condition when such equipment is located within 150 feet of pillar workings or longwall faces.
(b) Electric conductors and cables installed in or in by the last open crosscut or within 150 feet of pillar workings or longwall faces must be—
(1) Shielded high-voltage cables supplying power to permissible longwall equipment;
(2) Interconnecting conductors and cables of permissible longwall equipment;
(3) Conductors and cables of intrinsically safe circuits; and
(4) Cables and conductors supplying power to low- and medium-voltage permissible equipment.
(5) Shielded high-voltage cables supplying power to permissible continuous mining machines.
[67 FR 11004, Mar. 11, 2002, as amended at 75 FR 17553, Apr. 6, 2010]
§ 75.1003
Insulation of trolley wires, trolley feeder wires and bare signal wires; guarding of trolley wires and trolley feeder wires.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Trolley wires, trolley feeder wires, and bare signal wires shall be insulated adequately where they pass through doors and stoppings, and where they cross other power wires and cables. Trolley wires and trolley feeder wires shall be guarded adequately:
(a) At all points where men are required to work or pass regularly under the wires;
(b) On both sides of all doors and stoppings; and
(c) At man-trip stations.
The Secretary or his authorized representatives shall specify other conditions where trolley wires and trolley feeder wires shall be adequately protected to prevent contact by any person, or shall require the use of improved methods to prevent such contact. Temporary guards shall be provided where trackmen and other persons work in proximity to trolley wires and trolley feeder wires.
§ 75.1003-1
Other requirements for guarding of trolley wires and trolley feeder wires.
Adequate precaution shall be taken to insure that equipment being moved along haulageways will not come in contact with trolley wires or trolley feeder wires.
§ 75.1003-2
Requirements for movement of off-track mining equipment in areas of active workings where energized trolley wires or trolley feeder wires are present; pre-movement requirements; certified and qualified persons.
(a) Prior to moving or transporting any unit of off-track mining equipment in areas of the active workings where energized trolley wires or trolley feeder wires are present:
(1) The unit of equipment shall be examined by a certified person to ensure that coal dust, float coal dust, loose coal oil, grease, and other combustible materials have been cleaned up and have not been permitted to accumulate on such unit of equipment; and,
(2) A qualified person, as specified in § 75.153 of this part, shall examine the trolley wires, trolley feeder wires, and the associated automatic circuit interrupting devices provided for short circuit protection to ensure that proper short circuit protection exists.
(b) A record shall be kept of the examinations required by paragraph (a) of this section, and shall be made available, upon request, to an authorized representative of the Secretary.
(c) Off-track mining equipment shall be moved or transported in areas of the active workings where energized trolley wires or trolley feeder wires are present only under the direct supervision of a certified person who shall be physically present at all times during moving or transporting operations.
(d) The frames of off-track mining equipment being moved or transported, in accordance with this section, shall be covered on the top and on the trolley wire side with fire-resistant material which has met the applicable requirements of Part 18 of Subchapter D of this chapter (Bureau of Mines Schedule 2G).
(e) Electrical contact shall be maintained between the mine track and the frames of off-track mining equipment
being moved in-track and trolley entries, except that rubber-tired equipment need not be grounded to a transporting vehicle if no metal part of such rubber-tired equipment can come into contact with the transporting vehicle.
(f) A minimum vertical clearance of 12 inches shall be maintained between the farthest projection of the unit of equipment which is being moved and the energized trolley wires or trolley feeder wires at all times during the movement or transportation of such equipment; provided, however, that if the height of the coal seam does not permit 12 inches of vertical clearance to be so maintained, the following additional precautions shall be taken:
(1)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section electric power shall be supplied to the trolley wires or trolley feeder wires only from outby the unit of equipment being moved or transported.
(ii) Where direct current electric power is used and such electric power can be supplied only from inby the equipment being moved or transported, power may be supplied from inby such equipment provided a miner with the means to cut off the power, and in direct communication with persons actually engaged in the moving or transporting operation, is stationed outby the equipment being moved.
(2) The settings of automatic circuit interrupting devices used to provide short circuit protection for the trolley circuit shall be reduced to not more than one-half of the maximum current that could flow if the equipment being moved or transported were to come into contact with the trolley wire or trolley feeder wire;
(3) At all times the unit of equipment is being moved or transported, a miner shall be stationed at the first automatic circuit breaker outby the equipment being moved and such miner shall be: (i) In direct communication with persons actually engaged in the moving or transporting operation, and (ii) capable of communicating with the responsible person on the surface required to be on duty in accordance with § 75.1600-1 of this part;
(4) Where trolley phones are utilized to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section, telephones or other equivalent two-way communication devices that can readily be connected with the mine communication system shall be carried by the miner stationed at the first automatic circuit breaker outby the equipment being moved and by a miner actually engaged in the moving or transporting operation; and,
(5) No person shall be permitted to be inby the unit of equipment being moved or transported, in the ventilating current of air that is passing over such equipment, except those persons directly engaged in moving such equipment.
(g) The provisions of paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section shall not apply to units of mining equipment that are transported in mine cars, provided that no part of the equipment extends above or over the sides of the mine car.
[38 FR 29998, Oct. 31, 1973, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]

# Subpart L—Fire Protection
§ 75.1100
Requirements.

# [Statutory Provision]
Each coal mine shall be provided with suitable firefighting equipment adapted for the size and conditions of the mine. The Secretary shall establish minimum requirements of the type, quality, and quantity of such equipment.
§ 75.1100-1
Type and quality of firefighting equipment.
Firefighting equipment required under this subpart shall meet the following minimum requirements:
(a) Waterlines: Waterlines shall be capable of delivering 50 gallons of water a minute at a nozzle pressure of 50 pounds per square inch.
(b) Portable water cars: A portable water car shall be of at least 1,000 gallons capacity (500 gallons capacity for anthracite mines) and shall have at least 300 feet of fire hose with nozzles. A portable water car shall be capable of providing a flow through the hose of 50 gallons of water per minute at a nozzle pressure of 50 pounds per square inch.
(c) A portable chemical car shall carry enough chemicals to provide a
fire extinguishing capacity equivalent to that of a portable water car.
(d) Portable foam-generating machines or devices: A portable foam-generating machine or device shall have facilities and equipment for supplying the machine with 30 gallons of water per minute at 30 pounds per square inch for a period of 35 minutes.
(e) Portable fire extinguisher: A portable fire extinguisher shall be either (1) a multipurpose dry chemical type containing a nominal weight of 5 pounds of dry powder and enough expellant to apply the powder or (2) a foam-producing type containing at least 2
1/2
gallons of foam-producing liquids and enough expellant to supply the foam. Only fire extinguishers approved by the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., or Factory Mutual Research Corp., carrying appropriate labels as to type and purpose, shall be used. After March 30, 1971, all new portable fire extinguishers acquired for use in a coal mine shall have a 2A 10 BC or higher rating.
(f)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the fire hose shall be lined with a material having flame resistant qualities meeting requirements for hose in Bureau of Mines' Schedule 2G. The cover shall be polyester, or other material with flame-spread qualities and mildew resistance equal or superior to polyester. The bursting pressure shall be at least 4 times the water pressure at the valve to the hose inlet with the valve closed; the maximum water pressure in the hose nozzle shall not exceed 100 p.s.i.g.
(2) Fire hose installed for use in underground coal mines prior to December 30, 1970, shall be mildew-proof and have a bursting pressure at least 4 times the water pressure at the valve to the hose inlet with the valve closed, and the maximum water pressure in the hose nozzle with water flowing shall not exceed 100 p.s.i.g.
§ 75.1100-2
Quantity and location of firefighting equipment.
(a)
Working sections.
(1) Each working section of coal mines producing 300 tons or more per shift shall be provided with two portable fire extinguishers and 240 pounds of rock dust in bags or other suitable containers; waterlines shall extend to each section loading point and be equipped with enough fire hose to reach each working face unless the section loading point is provided with one of the following:
(i) Two portable water cars; or
(ii) Two portable chemical cars; or
(iii) One portable water car or one portable chemical car, and either (
a
) a portable foam-generating machine or (
b
) a portable high-pressure rock-dusting machine fitted with at least 250 feet of hose and supplied with at least 60 sacks of rock dust.
(2) Each working section of coal mines producing less than 300 tons of coal per shift shall be provided with the following:
(i) Two portable fire extinguishers; and
(ii) 240 pounds of rock dust in bags or other suitable containers; and
(iii) At least 500 gallons of water and at least three pails of 10-quart capacity; or a waterline with sufficient hose to reach the working places; or a portable water car of at least 500-gallons capacity; or a portable, all-purpose, dry-powder chemical car of at least 125-pounds capacity.
(3) As an alternative to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, each working section with no electrical equipment at the face of an anthracite coal mine producing less than 300 tons of coal per shift shall be provided with the following:
(i) Portable fire extinguishers containing a total capacity of at least 30 pounds of dry chemical or 15 gallons of foam and located at the entrance to the gangway at the bottom of the slope; and
(ii) Portable fire extinguishers containing a total capacity of at least 20 pounds of dry chemical or 10 gallons of foam and located within 500 feet from the working face.
(b)
Belt conveyors.
In all coal mines, waterlines shall be installed parallel to the entire length of belt conveyors and shall be equipped with firehose outlets with valves at 300-foot intervals along each belt conveyor and at tailpieces. At least 500 feet of firehose with fittings suitable for connection with each belt conveyor waterline system shall be stored at strategic locations along the belt conveyor. Waterlines may be
installed in entries adjacent to the conveyor entry belt as long as the outlets project into the belt conveyor entry.
(c)
Haulage tracks.
(1) In mines producing 300 tons of coal or more per shift waterlines shall be installed parallel to all haulage tracks using mechanized equipment in the track or adjacent entry and shall extend to the loading point of each working section. Waterlines shall be equipped with outlet valves at intervals of not more than 500 feet, and 500 feet of firehose with fittings suitable for connection with such waterlines shall be provided at strategic locations. Two portable water cars, readily available, may be used in lieu of waterlines prescribed under this paragraph.
(2) In mines producing less than 300 tons of coal per shift, there shall be provided at 500-foot intervals in all main and secondary haulage roads:
(i) A tank of water of at least 55-gallon capacity with at least 3 pails of not less than 10-quart capacity; or
(ii) Not less than 240 pounds of bagged rock dust.
(d)
Transportation.
Each track or off-track locomotive, self-propelled man-trip car, or personnel carrier shall be equipped with one portable fire extinguisher.
(e)
Electrical installations.
At each electrical installation, the operator shall provide two portable fire extinguishers that have a nominal capacity of 5 pounds of dry chemical, or one extinguisher that has a nominal capacity of at least 10 pounds of dry chemical, and which have a 2-A:10-B:C or higher rating.
(f)
Oil storage stations.
Two portable fire extinguishers and 240 pounds of rock dust, shall be provided at each permanent underground oil storage station. One portable fire extinguisher shall be provided at each working section where 25 gallons or more of oil are stored in addition to extinguishers required under paragraph (a) of this section.
(g)
Welding, cutting, soldering.
One portable fire extinguisher or 240 pounds of rock dust shall be provided at locations where welding, cutting, or soldering with arc or flame is being done.
(h)
Powerlines.
At each wooden door through which powerlines pass there shall be one portable fire extinguisher or 240 pounds of rock dust within 25 feet of the door on the intake air side.
(i)
Emergency materials.
(1) At each mine producing 300 tons of coal or more per shift there shall be readily available the following materials at locations not exceeding 2 miles from each working section:
1,000 board feet of brattice boards
2 rolls of brattice cloth
2 hand saws
25 pounds of 8
d
nails
25 pounds of 10
d
nails
25 pounds of 16
d
nails
3 claw hammers
25 bags of wood fiber plaster or 10 bags of cement (or equivalent material for stoppings)
5 tons of rock dust
(2) At each mine producing less than 300 tons of coal per shift the above materials shall be available at the mine, provided, however, that the emergency materials for one or more mines may be stored at a central warehouse or building supply company and such supply must be the equivalent of that required for all mines involved and within 1-hour's delivery time from each mine. This exception shall not apply where the active working sections are more than 2 miles from the surface.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 73 FR 53127, Sept. 15, 2008]
§ 75.1100-3
Condition and examination of firefighting equipment.
All firefighting equipment shall be maintained in a usable and operative condition. Chemical extinguishers shall be examined every 6 months and the date of the examination shall be written on a permanent tag attached to the extinguisher.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.1101
Deluge-type water sprays, foam generators; main and secondary belt-conveyor drives.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Deluge-type water sprays or foam generators automatically actuated by
rise in temperature, or other no less effective means approved by the Secretary of controlling fire, shall be installed at main and secondary belt-conveyor drives.
§ 75.1101-1
Deluge-type water spray systems.
(a) Deluge-type spray systems shall consist of open nozzles attached to branch lines. The branch lines shall be connected to a waterline through a control valve operated by a fire sensor. Actuation of the control valve shall cause water to flow into the branch lines and discharge from the nozzles.
(b) Nozzles attached to the branch lines shall be full cone, corrosion resistant and provided with blow-off dust covers. The spray application rate shall not be less than 0.25 gallon per minute per square foot of the top surface of the top belt and the discharge shall be directed at both the upper and bottom surfaces of the top belt and to the upper surface of the bottom belt.
§ 75.1101-2
Installation of deluge-type sprays.
Deluge-type water spray systems shall provide protection for the belt drive and 50 feet of fire-resistant belt or 150 feet of nonfire-resistant belt adjacent to the belt drive.
§ 75.1101-3
Water requirements.
Deluge-type water spray systems shall be attached to a water supply. Water so supplied shall be free of excessive sediment and noncorrosive to the system Water pressure shall be maintained consistent with the pipe, fittings, valves, and nozzles at all times. Water systems shall include strainers with a flush-out connection and a manual shut-off valve. The water supply shall be adequate to provide flow for 10 minutes except that pressure tanks used as a source of water supply shall be of 1,000-gallon capacity for a fire-resistant belt and 3,000 gallons for a nonfire-resistant belt may be provided.
§ 75.1101-4
Branch lines.
As a part of the deluge-type water spray system, two or more branch lines of nozzles shall be installed. The maximum distance between nozzles shall not exceed 8 feet.
§ 75.1101-5
Installation of foam generator systems.
(a) Foam generator systems shall be located so as to discharge foam to the belt drive, belt takeup, electrical controls, gear reducing unit and the conveyor belt.
(b) Foam generator systems shall be equipped with a fire sensor which actuates the system, and each system shall be capable of producing and delivering the following amounts of foam within 5 minutes:
(1) At fire-resistant belt installations, an amount which will fully envelop the belt drive, belt takeup, electrical controls, gear reducing unit, and the conveyor belt over a distance of 50 feet; and,
(2) At nonfire-resistant belt installations, an amount which will fully envelop the belt drive, belt takeup electrical controls, gear reducing unit, and the conveyor belt over a distance of 150 feet.
(c) The foam generator shall be equipped with a warning device designed to stop the belt drive when a fire occurs and all such warning devices shall be capable of giving both an audible and visual signal when actuated by fire.
(d) Water, power, and chemicals required shall be adequate to maintain water or foam flow for no less than 25 minutes.
(e) Water systems shall include strainers with a flush-out connection and a manual shut-off valve.
§ 75.1101-6
Water sprinkler systems; general.
Water sprinkler systems may be installed to protect main and secondary belt-conveyor drives, however, where such systems are employed, they shall be installed and maintained in accordance with §§ 75.1101-7 through 75.1101-11.
§ 75.1101-7
Installation of water sprinkler systems; requirements.
(a) The fire-control components of each water sprinkler system shall be installed, as far as practicable in accordance with the recommendations set forth in National Fire Protection Association 1968-69 edition, Code No. 13, “Installation of Sprinkler Systems” and such systems' components shall be
of a type approved by the Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., Factory Mutual Research Corp.
(b) Each sprinkler system shall provide protection for the motor drive belt takeup, electrical controls, gear reducing unit, and the 50 feet of fire-resistant belt, or 150 feet of nonfire-resistant belt adjacent to the belt drive.
(c) The components of each water sprinkler system shall be located so as to minimize the possibility of damage by roof fall or by the moving belt and its load.
§ 75.1101-8
Water sprinkler systems; arrangement of sprinklers.
(a) At least one sprinkler shall be installed above each belt drive, belt take-up, electrical control, and gear-reducing unit, and individual sprinklers shall be installed at intervals of no more than 8 feet along all conveyor branch lines.
(b) Two or more branch lines, at least one of which shall be above the top belt and one between the top and bottom belt, shall be installed in each sprinkler system to provide a uniform discharge of water to the belt surface.
(c) The water discharge rate from the sprinkler system shall not be less than 0.25 gallon per minute per square foot of the top surface of the top belt and the discharge shall be directed at both the upper and bottom surfaces of the top belt and to the upper surface of the bottom belt. The supply of water shall be adequate to provide a constant flow of water for 10 minutes with all sprinklers functioning.
(d) Each individual sprinkler shall be activated at a temperature of not less than 150 °F. and not more than 300 °F.
(e) Water systems shall include strainers with a flush-out connection and a manual shut-off valve.
§ 75.1101-9
Back-up water system.
One fire hose outlet together with a length of hose capable of extending to the belt drive shall be provided within 300 feet of each belt drive.
§ 75.1101-10
Water sprinkler systems; fire warning devices at belt drives.
Each water sprinkler system shall be equipped with a device designed to stop the belt drive in the event of a rise in temperature and each such warning device shall be capable of giving both an audible and visual warning when a fire occurs.
§ 75.1101-11
Inspection of water sprinkler systems.
Each water sprinkler system shall be examined weekly and a functional test of the complete system shall be conducted at least once each year.
§ 75.1101-12
Equivalent dry-pipe system.
Where water sprinkler systems are installed to protect main and secondary belt conveyor drives and freezing temperatures prevail, an equivalent dry-pipe system may be installed.
§ 75.1101-13
Dry powder chemical systems; general.
Self-contained dry powder chemical systems may be installed to protect main and secondary belt conveyor drives, however, where such systems are employed, they shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the provisions of §§ 75.1101-14 through 75.1101-22.
§ 75.1101-14
Installation of dry powder chemical systems.
(a) Self-contained dry powder chemical systems shall be installed to protect each belt-drive, belt takeup, electrical-controls, gear reducing units and 50 feet of fire-resistant belt or 150 feet of non-fire-resistant belt adjacent to the belt drive.
(b) The fire-control components of each dry powder chemical system shall be a type approved by the Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., or Factory Mutual Engineering Corp.
(c) The components of each dry powder chemical system shall be located so as to minimize the possibility of damage by roof fall or by the moving belt and its load.
§ 75.1101-15
Construction of dry powder chemical systems.
(a) Each self-contained dry powder system shall be equipped with hose or pipe lines which are no longer than necessary.
(b) Metal piping and/or hose between control valves and nozzles shall have a
minimum bursting pressure of 500 p.s.i.g.
(c) Hose shall be protected by wire braid or its equivalent.
(d) Nozzles and reservoirs shall be sufficient in number to provide maximum protection to each belt, belt takeup, electrical controls, and gear reducing unit.
(e) Each belt shall be protected on the top surface of both the top and bottom belts and the bottom surface of the top belt.
§ 75.1101-16
Dry powder chemical systems; sensing and fire-suppression devices.
(a) Each self-contained dry powder chemical system shall be equipped with sensing devices which shall be designed to activate the fire-control system, sound an alarm and stop the conveyor drive motor in the event of a rise in temperature, and provision shall be made to minimize contamination of the lens of any optical sensing device installed in such system.
(b) Where sensors are operated from the same power source as the belt drive, each sensor shall be equipped with a standby power source which shall be capable of remaining operative for at least 4 hours after a power cutoff.
(c) Sensor systems shall include a warning indicator (or test circuit) which shows it is operative.
(d) Each fire-suppression system shall be equipped with a manually operated control valve which shall be independent of the sensor.
§ 75.1101-17
Sealing of dry powder chemical systems.
Each dry powder chemical system shall be adequately sealed to protect all components of the system from moisture dust, and dirt.
§ 75.1101-18
Dry powder requirements.
Each dry powder chemical system shall contain the following minimum amounts of multipurpose dry powder:
Belt
Dry powder, pounds
Fire resistant
125
Non-fire resistant
250
§ 75.1101-19
Nozzles; flow rate and direction.
The nozzles of each dry powder chemical system shall be capable of discharging all powder within 1 minute after actuation of the system and such nozzles shall be directed so as to minimize the effect of ventilation upon fire control.
§ 75.1101-20
Safeguards for dry powder chemical systems.
Adequate guards shall be provided along all belt conveyors in the vicinity of each dry powder chemical system to protect persons whose vision is restricted by a discharge of powder from the system. In addition, hand-rails shall be installed in such areas to provide assistance to those passing along the conveyor after a powder discharge.
§ 75.1101-21
Back-up water system.
One fire hose outlet together with a length of hose capable of extending to the belt drive shall be provided within 300 feet of each belt drive.
§ 75.1101-22
Inspection of dry powder chemical systems.
(a) Each dry powder chemical system shall be examined weekly and a functional test of the complete system shall be conducted at least once each year.
(b) Where the dry powder chemical system has been actuated, all components of the system shall be cleaned immediately by flushing all powder from pipes and hoses and all hose damaged by fire shall be replaced.
§ 75.1102
Slippage and sequence switches.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Underground belt conveyors shall be equipped with slippage and sequence switches.
§ 75.1103
Automatic fire warning devices.

# [Statutory Provisions]
On or before May 29, 1970, devices shall be installed on all such belts which will give a warning automatically when a fire occurs on or near
such belt. The Secretary shall prescribe a schedule for installing fire suppression devices on belt haulageways.
§ 75.1103-1
Automatic fire sensors.
A fire sensor system shall be installed on each underground belt conveyor. Sensors so installed shall be of a type which will (a) give warning automatically when a fire occurs on or near such belt; (b) provide both audible and visual signals that permit rapid location of the fire.
§ 75.1103-2
Automatic fire sensors; approved components; installation requirements.
(a) The components of each automatic fire sensor required to be installed in accordance with the provisions of § 75.1103-1 shall be of a type and installed in a manner approved by the Secretary, or the components shall be of a type listed, approved and installed in accordance with the recommendations of a nationally recognized testing laboratory approved by the Secretary.
(b) Where applicable, and not inconsistent with these regulations, automatic fire sensors shall be installed in accordance with the recommendations set forth in National Fire Code No. 72A “Local Protective Signaling Systems” (NFPA No. 72A-1967). National Fire Code No. 72A (1967) is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. National Fire Code No. 72A is available for examination at each MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health district office, and may be obtained from the National Fire Protection Association, 11 Tracy Drive, Avon, MA 02322; Telephone: 800-344-3555 (toll free);
http://www.nfpa.org.
[37 FR 16546, Aug. 16, 1972, as amended at 71 FR 16668, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 75.1103-3
Automatic fire sensor and warning device systems; minimum requirements; general.
Automatic fire sensor and warning device systems installed in belt haulageways of underground coal mines shall be assembled from components which meet the minimum requirements set forth in §§ 75.1103-4 through 75.1103-7 unless otherwise approved by the Secretary.
[37 FR 16545, Aug. 16, 1972]
§ 75.1103-4
Automatic fire sensor and warning device systems; installation; minimum requirements.
(a) Effective December 31, 2009, automatic fire sensor and warning device systems that use carbon monoxide sensors shall provide identification of fire along all belt conveyors.
(1) Carbon monoxide sensors shall be installed at the following locations:
(i) Not more than 100 feet downwind of each belt drive unit, each tailpiece transfer point, and each belt take-up. If the belt drive, tailpiece, and/or take-up for a single transfer point are installed together in the same air course, and the distance between the units is less than 100 feet, they may be monitored with one sensor downwind of the last component. If the distance between the units exceeds 100 feet, additional sensors are required downwind of each belt drive unit, each tailpiece transfer point, and each belt take-up;
(ii) Not more than 100 feet downwind of each section loading point;
(iii) Along the belt entry so that the spacing between sensors does not exceed 1,000 feet. Where air velocities are less than 50 feet per minute, spacing must not exceed 350 feet; and
(iv) The mine operator shall indicate the locations of all carbon monoxide sensors on the mine maps required by §§ 75.1200 and 75.1505 of this part.
(2) Where used, sensors responding to radiation, smoke, gases, or other indications of fire, shall be spaced at regular intervals to provide protection equivalent to carbon monoxide sensors, and installed within the time specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(3) When the distance from the tailpiece at loading points to the first outby sensor reaches the spacing requirements in § 75.1103-4(a)(1)(iii), an additional sensor shall be installed and put in operation within 24 production shift hours. When sensors of the kind described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section are used, they shall be installed and put in operation within 24 production shift hours after the equivalent distance which has been established for the sensor from the tailpiece at loading points to the first outby sensor is first reached.
(b) Automatic fire sensor and warning device systems shall be installed so
as to minimize the possibility of damage from roof falls and the moving belt and its load. Sensors must be installed near the center in the upper third of the entry, in a manner that does not expose personnel working on the system to unsafe conditions. Sensors must not be located in abnormally high areas or in other locations where air flow patterns do not permit products of combustion to be carried to the sensors.
(c) Infrared, ultraviolet, and other sensors whose effectiveness is impaired by contamination shall be protected from dust, dirt, and moisture.
(d) The voltage of automatic fire sensor and warning device systems shall not exceed 120 volts.
(e) Except when power must be cut off in the mine under the provisions of § 75.313, automatic fire sensor and warning device systems shall be capable of giving warning of fire for a minimum of 4 hours after the source of power to the belt is removed unless the belt haulageway is examined for hot rollers and fire as provided in paragraph (e) (1) or (2) of this section.
(1) When an unplanned removal of power from the belt occurs an examination for hot rollers and fire in the operating belts of a conveyor system shall be completed within 2 hours after the belt has stopped.
(2) When a preplanned removal of power from the belt occurs an examination for hot rollers and fire on the operating belts of a conveyor system may commence not more than 30 minutes before the belts are stopped and shall be completed within 2 hours after the examination is commenced, or the examination shall be commenced when the belts are stopped and completed within 2 hours after the belts are stopped.
[37 FR 16545, Aug. 16, 1972, as amended at 57 FR 20928, May 15, 1992; 73 FR 80614, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.1103-5
Automatic fire warning devices; actions and response.
(a) When the carbon monoxide level reaches 10 parts per million above the established ambient level at any sensor location, automatic fire sensor and warning device systems shall provide an effective warning signal at the following locations:
(1) At working sections and other work locations where miners may be endangered from a fire in the belt entry.
(2) At a manned surface location where personnel have an assigned post of duty. The manned surface location must have:
(i) A telephone or equivalent communication with all miners who may be endangered and
(ii) A map or schematic that shows the locations of sensors, and the intended air flow direction at these locations. This map or schematic must be updated within 24 hours of any change in this information.
(3) The automatic fire sensor and warning device system shall be monitored for a period of 4 hours after the belt is stopped, unless an examination for hot rollers and fire is made as prescribed in § 75.1103-4(e).
(b) The fire sensor and warning device system shall include a means for rapid evaluation of electrical short and open circuits, ground faults, pneumatic leaks, or other defect detrimental to its proper operational condition.
(c) Automatic fire sensor and warning devices shall include a manual reset feature.
(d) When a malfunction or warning signal is received at the manned surface location, the sensors that are activated must be identified and appropriate personnel immediately notified.
(e) Upon notification of a malfunction or warning signal, appropriate personnel must immediately initiate an investigation to determine the cause of the malfunction or warning signal and take the required actions set forth in paragraph (f) of this section.
(f) If any sensor indicates a warning, the following actions must be taken unless the mine operator determines that the signal does not present a hazard to miners:
(1) Appropriate personnel must notify miners in affected working sections, in affected areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed, and at other locations specified in the approved mine emergency evacuation and firefighting program of instruction; and
(2) All miners in the affected areas, unless assigned emergency response duties, must be immediately withdrawn to a safe location identified in the mine emergency evacuation and firefighting program of instruction.
(g) If the warning signal will be activated during calibration of sensors, personnel manning the surface location must be notified prior to and upon completion of calibration. Affected working sections, areas where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed, or other areas designated in the approved emergency evacuation and firefighting program of instruction must be notified at the beginning and completion of calibration.
(h) If any fire detection component becomes inoperative, immediate action must be taken to repair the component. While repairs are being made, operation of the belt may continue if the following requirements are met:
(1) If one sensor becomes inoperative, a trained person must continuously monitor for carbon monoxide at the inoperative sensor;
(2) If two or more adjacent sensors become inoperative, trained persons must patrol and continuously monitor the affected areas for carbon monoxide so that they will be traveled each hour in their entirety. Alternatively, a trained person must be stationed at each inoperative sensor to monitor for carbon monoxide;
(3) If the complete fire detection system becomes inoperative, trained persons must patrol and continuously monitor the affected areas for carbon monoxide so that they will be traveled each hour in their entirety;
(4) Trained persons who conduct monitoring under this section must have two-way voice communication capability, at intervals not to exceed 2,000 feet, and must report carbon monoxide concentrations to the surface at intervals not to exceed one hour;
(5) Trained persons who conduct monitoring under this section must immediately report to the surface any concentration of carbon monoxide that reaches 10 parts per million above the established ambient level, unless the mine operator knows that the source of the carbon monoxide does not present a hazard to miners; and
(6) Handheld detectors used to monitor the belt entry under this section must have a detection level equivalent to that of the system's carbon monoxide sensors.
[37 FR 16545, Aug. 16, 1972, as amended at 73 FR 80615, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.1103-6
Automatic fire sensors; actuation of fire suppression systems.
Point-type heat sensors or automatic fire sensor and warning device systems may be used to actuate deluge-type water systems, foam generator systems, multipurpose dry-powder systems, or other equivalent automatic fire suppression systems.
[73 FR 80615, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.1103-7
Electrical components; permissibility requirements.
The electrical components of each automatic fire sensor and warning device system shall:
(a) Remain functional when the power circuits are deenergized as required by § 75.706; and
(b) Be provided with protection against ignition of methane or coal dust when the electrical power is deenergized as required by § 75.313, but these components shall be permissible or intrinsically safe if installed in a return airway.
[37 FR 16546, Aug. 16, 1972, as amended at 57 FR 20929, May 15, 1992]
§ 75.1103-8
Automatic fire sensor and warning device systems; examination and test requirements.
(a) Automatic fire sensor and warning device systems shall be examined at least once each shift when belts are operated as part of a production shift. A functional test of the warning signals shall be made at least once every seven days. Examination and maintenance of such systems shall be by a qualified person.
(b) A record of the functional test conducted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall be maintained by the operator and kept for a period of one year.
(c) Sensors shall be calibrated in accordance with the manufacturer's calibration instructions at intervals not to exceed 31 days. A record of the sensor
calibrations shall be maintained by the operator and kept for a period of one year.
[73 FR 80615, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.1103-9
Minimum requirements; fire suppression materials and location; maintenance of entries and crosscuts; access doors; communications; fire crews; high-expansion foam devices.
(a) The following materials shall be stored within 300 feet of each belt drive or at a location where the material can be moved to the belt drive within 5 minutes, except that when the ventilating current in the belt haulageway travels in the direction of the normal movement of coal on the belt, the materials shall be stored within 300 feet of the belt tailpiece or at a location where the materials can be moved to the belt tailpiece within 5 minutes.
(1) 500 feet of fire hose, except that if the belt flight is less than 500 feet in length the fire hose may be equal to the length of the belt flight. A high expansion foam device may be substituted for 300 feet of the 500 feet of the fire hose. Where used, such foam generators shall produce foam sufficient to fill 100 feet of the belt haulageway in not more than 5 minutes. Sufficient power cable and water hose shall be provided so that the foam generator can be installed at any crosscut along the belt by which the generator is located. A 1-hour supply of foam producing chemicals and tools and hardware required for its operation shall be stored at the foam generator.
(2) Tools to open a stopping between the belt entry and the adjacent intake entry; and
(3) 240 pounds of bagged rock dust.
(b) The entry containing the main waterline and the crosscuts containing water outlets between such entry and the belt haulageway (if the main waterline is in an adjacent entry) shall be maintained accessible and in safe condition for travel and firefighting activities. Each stopping in such crosscuts or adjacent crosscuts shall have an access door.
(c) Suitable communication lines extending to the surface shall be provided in the belt haulageway or adjacent entry.
(d) The fire suppression system required at the belt drive shall include the belt discharge head.
(e) A crew consisting of at least five members for each working shift shall be trained in firefighting operations. Fire drills shall be held at intervals not exceeding 6 months.
[37 FR 16546, Aug. 16, 1972]
§ 75.1103-10
Fire suppression systems; additional requirements.
For each conveyor belt flight exceeding 2,000 feet in length, where the average air velocity along the belt haulage entry exceeds 100 feet per minute, an additional cache of the materials specified in § 75.1103-9(a)(1), (2), and (3) shall be provided. The additional cache may be stored at the locations specified in § 75.1103-9(a), or at some other strategic location readily accessible to the conveyor belt flight.
[73 FR 80616, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.1103-11
Tests of fire hydrants and fire hose; record of tests.
Each fire hydrant shall be tested by opening to insure that it is in operating condition, and each fire hose shall be tested, at intervals not exceeding 1 year. A record of these tests shall be maintained at an appropriate location.
[37 FR 16546, Aug. 16, 1972]
§ 75.1104
Underground storage, lubricating oil and grease.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Underground storage places for lubricating oil and grease shall be of fireproof construction. Except for specially prepared materials approved by the Secretary, lubricating oil and grease kept in all underground areas in a coal mine shall be in fireproof, closed metal containers or other no less effective containers approved by the Secretary.
§ 75.1106
Welding, cutting, or soldering with arc or flame underground.

# [Statutory Provisions]
All welding, cutting, or soldering with arc or flame in all underground areas of a coal mine shall, whenever practicable, be conducted in fireproof
enclosures. Welding, cutting, or soldering with arc or flame in other than a fireproof enclosure shall be done under the supervision of a qualified person who shall make a diligent search for fire during and after such operations and shall, immediately before and during such operations, continuously test for methane with means approved by the Secretary for detecting methane. Welding, cutting, or soldering shall not be conducted in air that contains 1.0 volume per centum or more of methane. Rock dust or suitable fire extinguishers shall be immediately available during such welding, cutting or soldering.
§ 75.1106-1
Test for methane.
Until December 31, 1970, a permissible flame safety lamp may be used to make tests for methane required by the regulations in this part. On and after December 31, 1970 a methane detector approved by the Secretary shall be used for such tests and a permissible flame safety lamp may be used as a supplemental testing device. A person qualified to test for methane under § 75.151 will be a qualified person for the purpose of this section.

# Transportation, Handling and Storage of Liquefied and Nonliquefied Compressed Gas Cylinders
§ 75.1106-2
Transportation of liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders; requirements.
(a) Liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders transported into or through an underground coal mine shall be:
(1) Placed securely in devices designed to hold the cylinder in place during transit on self-propelled equipment or belt conveyors;
(2) Disconnected from all hoses and gages;
(3) Equipped with a metal cap or “headband” (fence-type metal protector around the valve stem) to protect the cylinder valve during transit; and,
(4) Clearly labeled “empty” or “MT” when the gas in the cylinder has been expended.
(b) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, when liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders are transported by a trolley wire haulage system into or through an underground coal mine, such cylinders shall be placed in well insulated and substantially constructed containers which are specifically designed for holding such cylinders.
(c) Liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders shall not be transported on mantrips.
[36 FR 22061, Nov. 19, 1971]
§ 75.1106-3
Storage of liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders; requirements.
(a) Liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders stored in an underground coal mine shall be:
(1) Clearly marked and identified as to their contents in accordance with Department of Transportation regulations.
(2) Placed securely in storage areas designated by the operator for such purpose, and where the height of the coalbed permits, in an upright position, preferably in specially designated racks, or otherwise secured against being accidently tipped over.
(3) Protected against damage from falling material, contact with power lines and energized electrical equipment, heat from welding, cutting or soldering, and exposure to flammable liquids.
(b) Liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders shall not be stored or left unattended in any area inby the last open crosscut of an underground coal mine.
(c) When not in use, the valves of all liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders shall be in the closed position, and all hoses shall be removed from the cylinder.
[36 FR 22061, Nov. 19, 1971]
§ 75.1106-4
Use of liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders; general requirements.
(a) Persons assigned by the operator to use and work with liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas shall be trained and designated by the operator as qualified to perform the work to which they are assigned, and such qualified persons shall be specifically instructed with respect to the dangers
inherent in the use of such gases in an underground coal mine.
(b) Persons who perform welding, cutting, or burning operations shall wear clothing free from excessive oil or grease.
(c) Liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas shall be used only in well-ventilated areas.
(d) Not more than one liquefied or nonliquefied compressed gas unit, consisting of one oxygen cylinder and one additional gas cylinder, shall be used to repair any unit of equipment which is inby the loading point of any section.
(e) Where liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas is used regularly in underground shops or other underground structures, such shops or structures shall be on a separate split of air.
(f) Where liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas is used in any area in which oil, grease, or coal dust is present, oil and grease deposits shall, where practicable, be removed and the entire area within 10 feet of the worksite covered with a heavy coating of rock dust.
(g) Liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders shall be located no less than 10 feet from the worksite, and where the height of the coal seam permits, they shall be placed in an upright position and chained or otherwise secured against falling.
(h) Liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas shall not be used under direct pressure from the cylinder and, where such gases are used under reduced pressure, the pressure level shall not exceed that recommended by the manufacturer.
(i) “Manifolding cylinders” shall only be performed in well-ventilated shops where the necessary equipment is properly installed and operated in accordance with specifications for safety prescribed by the manufacturer.
[36 FR 22061, Nov. 19, 1971]
§ 75.1106-5
Maintenance and tests of liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders; accessories and equipment; requirements.
(a) Hose lines, gages, and other cylinder accessories shall be maintained in a safe operating condition.
(b) Defective cylinders, cylinder accessories, torches, and other welding, cutting, and burning equipment shall be labeled “defective” and taken out of service.
(c) Each qualified person assigned to perform welding, cutting, or burning with liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas shall be equipped with a wrench specifically designed for use with liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders and a suitable torchtip cleaner to maintain torches in a safe operating condition.
(d) Tests for leaks on the hose valves or gages of liquefied and nonliquefied compressed gas cylinders shall only be made with a soft brush and soapy water or soap suds, or other device approved by the Secretary.
[36 FR 22062, Nov. 19, 1971]
§ 75.1106-6
Exemption of small low pressure gas cylinders containing nonflammable or nonexplosive gas mixtures.
Small low pressure gas cylinders containing nonflammable or nonexplosive gas mixtures, which provide for the emission of such gas under a pressure reduced from a pressure which does not exceed 250 p.s.i.g., and which is manufactured and sold in conformance with U.S. Department of Transportation Special Permit No. 6029 as a calibration test kit for methane monitoring systems, shall be exempt from the requirements of §§ 75.1106-2(c) and 75.1106-4(d), (f) and (g).
[36 FR 22062, Nov. 19, 1971]

# Fire Suppression Devices and Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluids on Underground Equipment
§ 75.1107
Fire suppression devices.

# [Statutory Provisions]
On and after March 30, 1971, fire-suppression devices meeting specifications prescribed by the Secretary shall be installed on unattended underground equipment and suitable fire-resistant hydraulic fluids approved by the Secretary shall be used in the hydraulic systems of such equipment. Such fluids shall be used in the hydraulic systems of other underground equipment unless
fire suppression devices meeting specifications prescribed by the Secretary are installed on such equipment.
§ 75.1107-1
Fire-resistant hydraulic fluids and fire suppression devices on underground equipment.
(a)(1) Unattended electrically powered equipment used underground which uses hydraulic fluid shall use approved fire-resistant hydraulic fluid.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a) (3) of this section, within 24 production shift hours after being installed, unattended electrically powered equipment used underground shall be equipped with a fire suppression device which meets the applicable requirements of §§ 75.1107-3 through 75.1107-16.
(3) Unattended enclosed motors, controls, transformers, rectifiers, and other similar noncombustible electrically powered equipment containing no flammable fluid may be protected:
(i) By an approved fire suppression device, or
(ii) Be located at least 2 feet from coal or other combustible materials, or
(iii) Be separated from the coal or combustible materials by a 4-inch-thick masonry firewall or equivalent; and be mounted on a minimum 4-inch-thick noncombustible surface, platform, or equivalent. The electrical cables at such equipment shall conform with the requirements of Part 18 of this chapter (Bureau of Mines Schedule 2G) or be in metal conduit.
(b) Attended electrically powered equipment used underground which uses hydraulic fluid shall use approved fire-resistant hydraulic fluid unless such equipment is protected by a fire suppression device which meets the applicable requirements of §§ 75.1107-3—75.1107-16.
(c) For purpose of §§ 75.1107—75.1107-16 the following underground equipment shall be considered attended equipment:
(1) Any machine or device regularly operated by a miner assigned to operate such machine or device;
(2) Any machine or device which is mounted in the direct line of sight of a jobsite which is located within 500 feet of such machine or device and which jobsite is regularly occupied by a miner assigned to perform job duties at such jobsite during each production shift.
(d) Machines and devices described under paragraph (c) of this section must be inspected for fire and the input powerline deenergized when workmen leave the area for more than 30 minutes.
[37 FR 15301, July 29, 1972]
§ 75.1107-2
Approved fire-resistant hydraulic fluids; minimum requirements.
Fire-resistant hydraulic fluids and concentrates required to be employed in the hydraulic system of underground equipment in accordance with the provisions of § 75.1107-1 shall be considered suitable only if they have been produced under an approval, or any modification thereof, issued pursuant to Part 35 Subchapter I of this chapter (Bureau of Mines Schedule 30), or any revision thereof.
[37 FR 15301, July 29, 1972]
§ 75.1107-3
Fire suppression devices; approved components; installation requirements.
(a) The components of each fire suppression device required to be installed in accordance with the provisions of § 75.1107-1 shall be approved by the Secretary, or where appropriate be listed as approved by a nationally recognized agency approved by the Secretary.
(b) Where used, pressure vessels shall conform with the requirements of sections 3603, 3606, 3607, 3707, and 3708 of National Fire Code No. 22 “Water Tanks for Private Fire Protection” (NFPA No. 22-1971).
(c) The cover of hose of fire suppression devices, if used on the protected equipment and installed after the effective date of this section, shall meet the flame-resistant requirements of Part 18 of this chapter (Bureau of Mines Schedule 2G).
(d) Fire suppression devices required to be installed in accordance with the provisions of § 75.1107-1 shall where appropriate be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
[37 FR 15301, July 29, 1972]
§ 75.1107-4
Automatic fire sensors and manual actuators; installation; minimum requirements.
(a)(1) Where fire suppression devices are installed on unattended underground equipment, one or more point-type sensors or equivalent shall be installed for each 50 square feet of top surface area, or fraction thereof, of such equipment, and each sensor shall be designed to activate the first suppression system and disconnect the electrical power source to the equipment protected, and, except where sprinklers are used, there shall be in addition, a manual actuator installed to operate the system. Where sprinklers are used, provision shall be made for manual application of water to the protected equipment in lieu of a manual actuator.
(2) Two or more manual actuators, where practicable, shall be installed, as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section, to activate fire suppression devices on attended equipment purchased on or after the effective date of this § 75.1107-4. At least one manual actuator shall be used on equipment purchased prior to the effective date of this § 75.1107-4.
(i) Manual actuators installed on attended equipment regularly operated by a miner, as provided in § 75.1107-1(c)(1) shall be located at different locations on the equipment, and at least one manual actuator shall be located within easy reach of the operator's normal operating position.
(ii) Manual actuators to activate fire suppression devices on attended equipment not regularly operated by a miner, as provided in § 75.1107-1(c)(2), shall be installed at different location, and at least one manual actuator shall be installed so as to be easily reached by the miner at the jobsite or by persons approaching the equipment.
(b) Sensors shall, where practicable, be installed in accordance with the recommendations set forth in National Fire Code No. 72A “Local Protective Signaling Systems” (NFPA No. 72A-1967).
(c) On unattended equipment the fire suppression device shall operate independently of the power to the main motor (or equivalent) so it will remain operative if the circuit breakers (or other protective device) actuates. On attended equipment powered through a trailing cable the fire suppression device shall operate independently of the electrical power provided by the cable.
(d) Point-type sensors (such as thermocouple, bimetallic strip, or rate of temperature rise) located in ventilated passageways shall be installed downwind from the equipment to be protected.
(e) Sensor systems shall include a device or method for determining their operative condition.
[37 FR 15301, July 29, 1972]
§ 75.1107-5
Electrical components of fire suppression devices; permissibility requirements.
The electrical components of each fire suppression device used on permissible equipment inby the last open crosscut or on equipment in the return airways of any coal mine shall be permissible or intrinsically safe and such components shall be maintained in permissible or intrinsically safe condition.
[37 FR 15302, July 29, 1972]
§ 75.1107-6
Capacity of fire suppression devices; location and direction of nozzles.
(a) Each fire suppression device shall be:
(1) Adequate in size and capacity to extinguish potential fires in or on the equipment protected; and
(2) Suitable for the atmospheric conditions surrounding the equipment protected (e.g., air velocity, type, and proximity of adjacent combustible material); and
(3) Rugged enough to withstand rough usage and vibration when installed on mining equipment.
(b) The extinguishant-discharge nozzles of each fire suppression device shall, where practicable, be located so as to take advantage of mine ventilation air currents. The fire suppression device may be of the internal injection, inundating, or combination type. Where fire control is achieved by internal injection, or combination of internal injection and inundation, hazardous locations shall be enclosed to minimize runoff and overshoot of the extinguishing agent and the extinguishing agent shall be directed onto:
(1) Cable reel compartments and electrical cables on the equipment which are subject to flexing or to external damage; and
(2) All hydraulic components on the equipment which are exposed directly to or located in the immediate vicinity of electrical cables which are subject to flexing or to damage.
[37 FR 15302, July 29, 1972]
§ 75.1107-7
Water spray devices; capacity; water supply; minimum requirements.
(a) Where water spray devices are used on unattended underground equipment the rate of flow shall be at least 0.25 gallon per minute per square foot over the top surface area of the equipment and the supply of water shall be adequate to provide the required flow of water for 10 minutes.
(b) Where water spray devices are used for inundating attended underground equipment the rate of flow shall be at least 0.18 gallon per minute per square foot over the top surface area of the equipment (excluding conveyors, cutters, and gathering heads), and the supply of water shall be adequate to provide the required flow of water for 10 minutes.
(c) Where water is used for internal injection on attended equipment the total quantity of water shall be at least 4.5 gallons times the number of hazardous locations; however, the total minimum amount of water shall not be less than the following:
Type of equipment
Water in gallons
(1) Cutting machines
36
(2) Continuous miners
36
(3) Haulage vehicles
22.5
(4) All other attended equipment
18.0
The rate of flow shall be not less than 7 gallons per minute.
(d) Where water is used in a combination internal injection and inundation system on attended equipment the rate of flow shall be at least 0.12 gallon per minute per square foot over the top surface area of the equipment (excluding conveyors, cutters, and gathering heads), and the supply of water shall be adequate to provide the required flow of water for 10 minutes.
(e) On equipment provided with a cable reel and an internal injection or combination-type system, the amount of water discharged into the cable reel compartments shall be approximately 25 percent of the amount required to be discharged by the system, however, such quantity need not exceed 10 gallons.
(f) Liquid chemicals may be used, as approved by the Secretary in self-contained fire suppression devices. Such liquid chemicals shall be nontoxic and when applied to a fire shall not produce excessive toxic compounds. The quantity of liquid chemicals required shall be proportionately less than water as based on equivalency ratings established by the Secretary or equivalency ratings made by a nationally recognized agency approved by the Secretary.
[37 FR 15302, July 29, 1972]
§ 75.1107-8
Fire suppression devices; extinguishant supply systems.
(a) Fire suppression systems using water or liquid chemical to protect attended equipment shall:
(1) Be maintained at a pressure consistent with the pipe, fittings, valves, and nozzles used in the system.
(2) Be located so as to be protected against damage during operation of the equipment protected.
(3) Employ liquid which is free from excessive sediment and noncorrosive to the system.
(4) Include strainers equipped with flush-out connections or equivalent protective devices and a rising stem or other visual indicator-type shutoff valve.
(b) Water supplies for fire suppression devices installed on underground equipment may be maintained in mounted water tanks or by connection to water mains. Such water supplies shall be continuously connected to the fire suppression device whenever the equipment is connected to a power source, except for a reasonable time for changing hose connections to hydrants while the machine is stopped in a ventilated passageway.
[37 FR 15302, July 29, 1972]
§ 75.1107-9
Dry chemical devices; capacity; minimum requirements.
(a) Dry chemical fire extinguishing systems used on underground equipment shall be of the multipurpose powder-type and shall include the following:
(1) The system including all hose and nozzles shall be protected against the entrance of moisture, dust, or dirt;
(2) The system shall be guarded against damage during operation of the equipment protected;
(3) Hose and pipe shall be as short as possible; the distance between the chemical container and furthest nozzle shall not exceed 50 feet;
(4) Hose, piping, and fittings between the actuator and the chemical container shall have a bursting pressure of 500 pounds per square inch (gage) or higher; the hose, piping, and fittings between the chemical container and the nozzles shall have a bursting pressure of 300 pounds per square inch (gage) or higher and
(5) The system shall discharge in 1 minute or less, for quantities less than 50 pounds (nominal)
1
and in less than 2 minutes for quantities more than 50 pounds;
1
Many dry chemical systems were originally designed for sodium bicarbonate before all-purpose chemical (ammonium phosphate) was shown to be more effective. Sodium bicarbonate is denser than ammonium phosphate; hence, for example, a 50-pound system designed for the sodium bicarbonate will hold slightly more by weight than all-purpose dry chemical (ammonium phosphate) by weight. The word “nominal” is used in § 75.1107-9 to express the approximate weight in pounds of all-purpose dry chemical.
(b) On unattended underground equipment, the number of pounds of dry chemical employed by the system shall be not less than 1 pound per square foot of top surface area of the equipment; however, the minimum amount in any system shall be 20 pounds (nominal). The discharge shall be directed into and on potentially hazardous locations of the equipment.
(c) On attended underground equipment, the number of pounds (nominal) employed by the system shall equal 5 times the total number of hazardous locations; however, the minimum amount in any system shall not be less than the following, except that systems on haulage vehicles installed prior to the effective date of this section may contain 20 pounds (nominal).
Type of equipment
Dry chemical pounds (nominal)
(1) Cutting machines
40
(2) Continuous miners
40
(3) Haulage vehicles
30
(4) All other attended equipment
20
(d) The amount of dry chemical discharged into the cable reel compartments of attended underground equipment shall be approximately 25 percent of the total amount required to be discharged by the system; however, the quantity discharged into cable reel compartments need not exceed 10 pounds.
[37 FR 15302, July 29, 1972]
§ 75.1107-10
High expansion foam devices; minimum capacity.
(a) On unattended underground equipment the amount of water delivered as high expansion foam for a period of approximately 20 minutes shall be not less than 0.06 gallon per minute per square foot of surface area of the equipment protected; however, the minimum total rate for any system shall be not less than 3 gallons per minute.
(b) On attended underground equipment, foam may be delivered by internal injection, inundation, or combination-type systems. Each system shall deliver water as foam for a minimum of 10 minutes. For internal injection, the rate of water application as high expansion foam shall be not less than 0.5 gallon per minute per hazardous location; however, the minimum total rate shall be not less than 2 gallons per minute. For inundation, the rate of water application as high expansion foam shall be not less than 0.05 gallon per minute per square foot of top surface area of the equipment protected; however, the minimum total rate shall be not less than 5 gallons of water per minute.
(c) In combined internal injection and inundation systems the rate of water applied as foam shall not be less than 0.035 gallon per minute per square
foot of top surface area of the equipment protected; however, the minimum total rate shall not be less than 3.5 gallons of water per minute.
(d) Where internal injection is employed, the amount of water discharged as high expansion foam into the cable reel compartments of underground equipment regularly operated by a miner shall be approximately 25 percent of the total amount required to be discharged by the system; however, the quantity of water discharged as foam into the cable reel compartment need not exceed 1.5 gallons.
[37 FR 15303, July 29, 1972]
§ 75.1107-11
Extinguishing agents; requirements on mining equipment employed in low coal.
On mining equipment no more than 32 inches high, the quantity of extinguishing agent required under the provisions of §§ 75.1107-7, 75.1107-9, and 75.1107-10 may be reduced by one-fourth if space limitations on the equipment require such reduction.
[37 FR 15303, July 29, 1972]
§ 75.1107-12
Inerting of mine atmosphere prohibited.
No fire suppression device designed to control fire by total flooding shall be installed to protect unattended underground equipment except in enclosed dead-end entries or enclosed rooms.
[37 FR 15303, July 29, 1972]
§ 75.1107-13
Approval of other fire suppression devices.
Notwithstanding the provisions of §§ 75.1107-1 through 75.1107-12 the District Manager for the District in which the mine is located may approve any other fire suppression system or device which provides substantially equivalent protection as would be achieved through compliance with those sections:
Provided,
That no such system or device shall be approved which does not meet the following minimum criteria:
(a) Components shall be approved by the Secretary, or where appropriate be listed as approved by a nationally recognized agency approved by the Secretary.
(b) The fire suppression equipment shall be designed to withstand the rigors of the mine environment. Where used, pressure vessels shall conform with the requirements of section 3603, 3606, 3607, 3707, and 3708 of National Fire Code No. 22 “Water Tanks for Private Fire Protection” (NFPA No. 22-1971).
(c) The cover of hose of fire suppression devices, if used on the protected equipment, shall meet the flame-resistant requirements of Part 18 of this chapter (Bureau of Mines Schedule 2G).
(d) Extinguishing agents shall not create a serious toxic or other hazard to the miners.
(e) The electrical components of the fire suppression device shall meet the requirements for electrical components of the mining machine.
(f) Where used, manual actuators for initiating the operation of the fire suppression device shall be readily accessible to the machine operator. On unattended equipment, an automatic as well as a manual actuator shall be provided.
(g) On unattended equipment the fire suppression device shall operate independently of the power to the main motor (or equivalent) so it will remain operative if the circuit breakers (or other protective device) actuates. On attended equipment powered through a trailing cable the fire suppression device shall operate independently of the electrical power provided by the cable.
(h) On unattended equipment, the sensor system shall have a means for checking its operative condition.
(i) The fire suppression agent shall be directed at locations where the greatest potential fire hazard exists. Cable reel compartments shall receive approximately twice the quantity of extinguishing agent as each other hazardous location.
(j) The rate of application of the fire suppression agent shall minimize the time for quenching and the total quantity applied shall be sufficient to quench a fire in its incipient stage.
(k) The effectiveness of the quenching agent, together with the total quantity of agent and its rate of application shall provide equivalent protection to the water, dry powder, or foam
systems described in §§ 75.1107-7, 75.1107-9, and 75.1107-10.
(l) The fire suppression device shall be operable at all times electrical power is connected to the mining machine, except during tramming when the machine is in a ventilated passageway, the water hose if used, may be switched from one hydrant to another in a reasonable time and except in systems meeting the minimum special criteria set forth in paragraph (m) of this section.
(m) Systems for attended equipment which are not continuously connected to a water supply shall not be approved unless they meet the following minimum criteria:
(1) The machine shall be equipped with a firehose at least 50 feet in length which is continuously connected to the machine-mounted portion of the system.
(2) Hydrants in proximity to the area where the machine is to be used shall be equipped with sufficient hose to reach the machine at any time it is connected to a power source.
(3) The machine shall be used only where the operator (or other person) will always be in ventilated air uncontaminated by smoke and hot gases from the machine fire while extending the machine-mounted hose to connect with the hydrant-mounted hose.
(4) The machine and hydrant hoses shall be readily accessible so that the connection between the machine-mounted hose and the hydrant hose can be made and water flow achieved in not more than 3 minutes under actual mining conditions for any location of the machine while electric power is connected.
(5) The rate of water flow at the machine shall provide a minimum of 0.12 gallon of water per minute per square foot of top surface area (excluding conveyors, cutters, and gathering heads). The water shall discharge to all hazardous locations on the machine.
(6) Hose, if used on the machine, in addition to meeting the flame resistant requirements for the cover of a hose provided in §§ 75.1107-3(b) and 75.1107-13(c) shall have a minimum burst pressure 4 times that of the static water pressure at the mining machine. Fabric braid hose shall have at least two braids, and wire braid hose shall have at least a single braid.
(7) In addition to the hose located at the hydrant (which is intended to be connected to the hose on the machine) the firefighting equipment required by § 75.1100-2(a) shall be maintained.
(8) A sufficient number of trained miners shall be kept on the section when the machine is in use to connect the machine hose to the hydrant hose and achieve water flow in not more than 3 minutes.
[37 FR 15303, July 29, 1972]
§ 75.1107-14
Guards and handrails; requirements where fire suppression devices are employed.
All unattended underground equipment provided with fire suppression devices which are mounted in dead end entries, enclosed rooms or other potentially hazardous locations shall be equipped with adequate guards at moving or rotating components. Handrails or other effective protective devices shall be installed at such locations where necessary to facilitate rapid egress from the area surrounding such equipment.
[37 FR 15303, July 29, 1972]
§ 75.1107-15
Fire suppression devices; hazards; training of miners.
Each operator shall instruct all miners normally assigned to the active workings of the mine with respect to any hazards inherent in the operation of all fire suppression devices installed in accordance with § 75.1107-1 and, where appropriate, the safeguards available at each such installation.
[37 FR 15303, July 29, 1972]
§ 75.1107-16
Inspection of fire suppression devices.
(a) All fire suppression devices shall be visually inspected at least once each week by a person qualified to make such inspections.
(b) Each fire suppression device shall be tested and maintained in accordance with the requirements specified in the appropriate National Fire Code listed as follows for the type and kind of device used:
National Fire Code No. 11A “High Expansion Foam Systems” (NFPA No. 11A—1970).
National Fire Code No. 13A “Care and Maintenance of Sprinkler Systems” (NFPA No. 13A—1971).
National Fire Code No. 15 “Water Spray Fixed Systems for Fire Protection” (NFPA No. 15—1969).
National Fire Code No. 17 “Dry Chemical Extinguishing Systems” (NFPA No. 17—1969).
National Fire Code No. 72A “Local Protective Signaling Systems” (NFPA No. 72A—1967).
National Fire Code No. 198 “Care of Fire Hose” (NFPA No. 198—1969).
(c) A record of the inspections required by this section shall be maintained by the operator. The record of the weekly inspections may be maintained at an appropriate location by each fire suppression device.
[37 FR 15304, July 29, 1972, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.1107-17
Incorporation by reference; availability of publications.
In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a), the technical publications to which reference is made in §§ 75.1107-1 through 75.1107-16, and which have been prepared by organizations other than the Bureau of Mines or the Mine Safety and Health Administration, are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. The incorporated publications are available for examination at each MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health district office. National Fire Codes are available from the National Fire Protection Association, 11 Tracy Drive, Avon, MA 02322; Telephone: 800-344-3555 (toll free);
http://www.nfpa.org.
[37 FR 15304, July 29, 1972, as amended at 71 FR 16669, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 75.1108
Approved conveyor belts.
(a) Until December 31, 2009 conveyor belts placed in service in underground coal mines shall be:
(1) Approved under Part 14; or
(2) Accepted under Part 18.
(b) Effective December 31, 2009 conveyor belts placed in service in underground coal mines shall be approved under Part 14. If MSHA determines that Part 14 approved belt is not available, the Agency will consider an extension of the effective date.
(c) Effective December 31, 2018 all conveyor belts used in underground coal mines shall be approved under Part 14.
[73 FR 80616, Dec. 31, 2008]

# Subpart M—Maps
§ 75.1200
Mine map.

# [Statutory Provisions]
The operator of a coal mine shall have in a fireproof repository located in an area on the surface of the mine chosen by the mine operator to minimize the danger of destruction by fire or other hazard, an accurate and up-to-date map of such mine drawn on scale. Such map shall show:
(a) The active workings;
(b) All pillared, worked out, and abandoned areas, except as provided in this section;
(c) Entries and aircourses with the direction of airflow indicated by arrows;
(d) Contour lines of all elevations;
(e) Elevations of all main and cross or side entries;
(f) Dip of the coalbed;
(g) Escapeways;
(h) Adjacent mine workings within 1,000 feet;
(i) Mines above or below;
(j) Water pools above; and
(k) Either producing or abandoned oil and gas wells located within 500 feet of such mine and any underground area of such mine; and,
(l) Such other information as the Secretary may require. Such map shall identify those areas of the mine which have been pillared, worked out, or abandoned, which are inaccessible or cannot be entered safely and on which no information is available.
§ 75.1200-1
Additional information on mine map.
Additional information required to be shown on mine maps under § 75.1200 shall include the following:
(a) Name and address of the mine;
(b) The scale and orientation of the map;
(c) The property or boundary lines of the mine;
(d) All drill holes that penetrate the coalbed being mined;
(e) All shaft, slope, drift, and tunnel openings and auger and strip mined areas of the coalbed being mined;
(f) The location of all surface mine ventilation fans; the location may be designated on the mine map by symbols;
(g) The location of railroad tracks and public highways leading to the mine, and mine buildings of a permanent nature with identifying names shown;
(h) The location and description of at least two permanent base line points coordinated with the underground and surface mine traverses, and the location and description of at least two permanent elevation bench marks used in connection with establishing or referencing mine elevation surveys;
(i) The location of any body of water dammed in the mine or held back in any portion of the mine; provided, however, such bodies of water may be shown on overlays or tracings attached to the mine maps used to show contour lines as provided under paragraph (m) of this section;
(j) The elevations of tops and bottoms of shafts and slopes, and the floor at the entrance to drift and tunnel openings;
(k) The elevation of the floor at intervals of not more than 200 feet in:
(1) At least one entry of each working section, and main and cross entries;
(2) The last line of open crosscuts of each working section, and main and cross entries before such sections and main and cross entries are abandoned;
(3) Rooms advancing toward or adjacent to property or boundary lines or adjacent mines;
(l) The elevation of any body of water dammed in the mine or held back in any portion of the mine; and,
(m) Contour lines passing through whole number elevations of the coalbed being mined. The spacing of such lines shall not exceed 10-foot elevation levels, except that a broader spacing of contour lines may be approved by the District Manager for steeply-pitching coalbeds. Contour lines may be placed on overlays or tracings attached to mine maps.
(n) The locations of refuge alternatives.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 73 FR 80697, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.1200-2
Accuracy and scale of mine maps.
(a) The scale of mine maps submitted to the Secretary shall not be less than 100 or more than 500 feet to the inch.
(b) Mine traverses shall be advanced by closed loop methods of traversing or other equally accurate methods of traversing.
§ 75.1201
Certification.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Such map shall be made or certified by a registered engineer or a registered surveyor of the State in which the mine is located.
§ 75.1202
Temporary notations, revisions, and supplements.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Such map shall be kept up-to-date by temporary notations and such map shall be revised and supplemented at intervals prescribed by the Secretary on the basis of a survey made or certified by such engineer or surveyor.
§ 75.1202-1
Temporary notations, revisions, and supplements.
(a) Mine maps shall be revised and supplemented at intervals of not more than 6 months.
(b) Temporary notations shall include:
(1) The location of each working face of each working place;
(2) Pillars mined or other such second mining;
(3) Permanent ventilation controls constructed or removed, such as seals, overcasts, undercasts, regulators, and permanent stoppings, and the direction of air currents indicated;
(4) Escapeways and refuge alternatives designated by means of symbols.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 73 FR 80697, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.1203
Availability of mine map.

# [Statutory Provisions]
The coal mine map and any revision and supplement thereof shall be available for inspection by the Secretary or his authorized representative, by coal mine inspectors of the State in which the mine is located, by miners in the mine and their representatives and by operators of adjacent coal mines and by persons owning, leasing, or residing on surface areas of such mines or areas adjacent to such mines. The operator shall furnish to the Secretary or his authorized representative and to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, upon request, one or more copies of such maps and any revision and supplement thereof. Such map or revision and supplement thereof shall be kept confidential and its contents shall not be divulged to any other person, except to the extent necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act and in connection with the functions and responsibilities of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
§ 75.1204
Mine closure; filing of map with Secretary.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Whenever an operator permanently closes or abandons a coal mine, or temporarily closes a coal mine for a period of more than 90 days, he shall promptly notify the Secretary of such closure. Within 60 days of the permanent closure or abandonment of the mine, or, when the mine is temporarily closed, upon the expiration of a period of 90 days from the date of closure, the operator shall file with the Secretary a copy of the mine map revised and supplemented to the date of the closure. Such copy of the mine map shall be certified by a registered surveyor or registered engineer of the State in which the mine is located and shall be available for public inspection.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.1204-1
Places to give notice and file maps.
Operators shall give notice of mine closures and file copies of maps with the Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office for the district in which the mine is located.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995; 71 FR 16669, Apr. 3, 2006]

# Subpart N—Explosives and Blasting

# Source:
53 FR 46786, Nov. 18, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 75.1300
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this subpart.
Approval.
A document issued by MSHA which states that an explosive or explosive unit has met the requirements of this part and which authorizes an approval marking identifying the explosive or explosive unit as approved as permissible.
Battery starting.
The use of unconfined explosives to start the flow of coal down a breast or chute in an anthracite mine.
Blasting off the solid.
Blasting the working face without providing a second free face by cutting, shearing or other method before blasting.
Instantaneous detonator.
An electric detonator that fires within 6 milliseconds after application of the firing current.
Laminated partition.
A partition composed of the following material and minimum nominal dimensions:
1/2
-inch thick plywood,
1/2
-inch thick gypsum wall board,
1/8
-inch thick low carbon steel and
1/4
-inch thick plywood, bonded together in that order.
Opener hole.
The first hole or holes fired in a round blasted off the solid to create an additional free face.
Permissible blasting unit.
A device that has been approved by MSHA and that is used for firing electric detonators.
Permissible explosive.
Any substance, compound or mixture which is approved by MSHA and whose primary purpose is to function by explosion.
Round.
A group of boreholes fired or intended to be fired in a continuous sequence with one application of the firing current.
Sheathed explosive unit.
A device consisting of an approved or permissible explosive covered by a sheath encased
in a sealed covering and designed to be fired outside the confines of a borehole.
Short-delay electric detonator.
An electric detonator with a designated delay period of 25 to 1,000 milliseconds.
§ 75.1301
Qualified person.
(a) A qualified person under this subpart is a person who—
(1) Is certified or qualified to use explosives by the State in which the mine is located provided that the State requires a demonstration of ability to safely use permissible explosives as prescribed by this subpart effective January 17, 1989; or
(2) In States that do not certify or qualify persons to use explosives required by this section, has at least 1 year of experience working in an underground coal mine that includes direct involvement with procedures for handling, loading, and preparing explosives for blasting and demonstrates to an authorized representative of the Secretary the ability to use permissible explosives safely.
(b) Persons qualified or certified by a State to use permissible explosives in underground coal mines as of May 17, 1989, are considered qualified under this section even though their State program did not contain a demonstration of ability requirement.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 56 FR 51616, Oct. 11, 1991; 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.1310
Explosives and blasting equipment.
(a) Only permissible explosives, approved sheathed explosive units, and permissible blasting units shall be taken or used underground.
(b) Black blasting powder, aluminum-cased detonators, aluminum-alloy-cased detonators, detonators with aluminum leg wires, and safety fuses shall not be taken or used underground.
(c) Explosives shall be fired only with a permissible blasting unit used in a manner consistent with its approval. Blasting units approved by MSHA that have approval labels specifying use with short-delay detonators with delay periods between 25-500 milliseconds are accepted to fire short-delay detonators up to 1,000 milliseconds, instantaneous detonators and long period delay detonators for anthracite mines.
(d) Permissible explosives and sheathed explosive units shall not be used underground when they are below the minimum product firing temperature specified by the approval. Explosives previously approved which do not specify a minimum firing temperature are permissible for use so long as the present approval is maintained.
(e) Electric detonators shall be compatible with the blasting unit and have sufficient strength to initiate the explosives being used.
§ 75.1311
Transporting explosives and detonators.
(a) When explosives and detonators are to be transported underground—
(1) They shall be enclosed in separate, substantially constructed containers made of nonconductive material, with no metal or other conductive materials exposed inside, except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section; and
(2) Each container of explosives and of detonators shall be indelibly marked with a readily visible warning identifying the contents.
(b) When explosives and detonators are transported by any cars or vehicles—
(1) The cars or vehicles shall be marked with warnings to identify the contents as explosive. The warnings shall be readily visible to miners approaching from any direction and in indelible letters;
(2) Explosives and detonators shall be transported either in separate cars or vehicles, or if in the same cars or vehicles as follows:
(i) Class A and Class C detonators in quantities greater than 1,000 shall be kept in the original containers as shipped from the manufacturer and separated from explosives by a hardwood partition at least 4 inches thick, a laminated partition or equivalent; and
(ii) Class A and Class C detonators in quantities of no more than 1,000 shall be separated from explosives by a hardwood partition at least 4 inches thick, a laminated partition or equivalent.
(3) No persons, other than those necessary to operate the equipment or to
accompany the explosives and detonators, shall be transported with explosives and detonators, and
(4) When explosives and detonators are transported using trolley locomotives—
(i) Trips carrying explosives and detonators shall be separated from all other mantrips by at least a 5-minute interval; and
(ii) Cars containing explosives or detonators shall be separated from the locomotives by at least one car that is empty or that contains noncombustible materials.
(c) When explosives and detonators are transported on conveyor belts—
(1) Containers of explosives shall be separated from containers of detonators by at least 50 feet;
(2) At least 6 inches of clearance shall be maintained between the top of any container of explosives or container of detonators and the mine roof or other obstruction;
(3) Except when persons are riding the belt to accompany explosives or detonators, a person shall be at each transfer point between belts and at the unloading location; and
(4) Conveyor belts shall be stopped before explosives or detonators are loaded or unloaded.
(d) When explosives and detonators are transported by hand they shall be carried in separate, nonconductive, closed containers.
§ 75.1312
Explosives and detonators in underground magazines.
(a) The quantity of explosives kept underground shall not be more than is needed for 48 hours of use.
(b) Except as provided in § 75.1313, explosives and detonators taken underground shall be kept in—
(1) Separate, closed magazines at least 5 feet apart; or
(2) The same closed magazine when—
(i) Separated by a hardwood partition at least 4 inches thick; or
(ii) Separated by a laminated partition; or
(iii) Separated by a device that is equivalent.
(c) Only explosives and detonators shall be kept in underground magazines.
(d) Magazines shall be substantially constructed and all interior surfaces shall be made of nonconductive material, with no metal or other conductive material exposed inside.
(e) All magazines shall be—
(1) Located at least 25 feet from roadways and any source of electric current;
(2) Located out of the direct line of the forces from blasting; and
(3) Kept as dry as practicable.
(f) Magazine locations shall be posted with indelibly marked and readily visible warnings indicating the presence of explosives.
(g) Only materials and equipment to be used in blasting shall be stored at magazine locations.
§ 75.1313
Explosives and detonators outside of magazines.
(a) The quantity of explosives outside a magazine for use in a working section or other area where blasting is to be performed shall—
(1) Not exceed 100 pounds; or
(2) Not exceed the amount necessary to blast one round when more than 100 pounds of explosives is required.
(b) Explosives and detonators outside a magazine that are not being transported or prepared for loading boreholes shall be kept in closed separate containers made of nonconductive material with no metal or other conductive material exposed inside and the containers shall be—
(1) At least 15 feet from any source of electric current;
(2) Out of the direct line of the forces from blasting;
(3) In a location to prevent damage by mobile equipment; and
(4) Kept as dry as practicable.
(c) Explosives and detonators not used during the shift shall be returned to a magazine by the end of the shift.
§ 75.1314
Sheathed explosive units.
(a) A separate instantaneous detonator shall be used to fire each sheathed explosive unit.
(b) Sheathed explosive units shall be primed and placed in position for firing only by a qualified person or a person working in the presence of and under the direction of a qualified person. To prime a sheathed explosive unit, the
entire detonator shall be inserted into the detonator well of the unit and be held securely in place.
(c) Sheathed explosive units shall not be primed until immediately before the units are placed where they are to be fired. A sheathed explosive unit shall not be primed if it is damaged or deteriorated.
(d) Except in anthracite mines, rock dust shall be applied to the roof, ribs and floor within a 40-foot radius of the location where the sheathed explosive units are to be fired.
(e) No more than three sheathed explosive units shall be fired at one time.
(f) No sheathed explosive unit shall be fired in contact with another sheathed explosive unit.
§ 75.1315
Boreholes for explosives.
(a) All explosives fired underground shall be confined in boreholes except—
(1) Sheathed explosives units and other explosive units approved by MSHA for firing outside the confines of a borehole; and
(2) Shots fired in anthracite mines for battery starting or for blasting coal overhangs. No person shall go inside a battery to start the flow of material.
(b) Each borehole in coal for explosives shall be at least 24 inches from any other borehole and from any free face, unless prohibited by the thickness of the coal seam.
(c) Each borehole in rock for explosives shall be at least 18 inches from any other borehole in rock, at least 24 inches from any other borehole in coal, and at least 18 inches from any free face.
(d) No borehole that has contained explosives shall be used for starting any other hole.
(e) When blasting slab rounds off the solid, opener holes shall not be drilled beyond the rib line.
(f) When coal is cut for blasting, the coal shall be supported if necessary to maintain the stability of the column of explosives in each borehole.
§ 75.1316
Preparation before blasting.
(a)(1) All nonbattery-powered electric equipment, including cables, located within 50 feet from boreholes to be loaded with explosives or the sites where sheathed explosive units are to be placed and fired shall be deenergized or removed to at least 50 feet from these locations before priming of explosives. Battery-powered equipment shall be removed to at least 50 feet from these locations before priming of explosives.
(2) As an alternative to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, electric equipment, including cables, need not be deenergized or removed if located at least 25 feet from these locations provided stray current tests conducted prior to priming the explosives detect stray currents of 0.05 ampere or less through a 1-ohm resistor.
(i) Tests shall be made at floor locations on the perimeter, on energized equipment frames and on repaired areas of energized cables within the area between 25 to 50 feet from the locations where the explosives are to be primed.
(ii) Tests shall be conducted using a blasting multimeter or other instrument specifically designed for such use.
(3) The blasting cable or detonator circuitry shall not come in contact with energized electric equipment, including cables.
(b) Before loading boreholes with explosives, each borehole shall be cleared and its depth and direction determined.
(c) No borehole drilled beyond the depth of cut coal shall be loaded with explosives unless that portion of the borehole deeper than the cut is tamped with noncombustible material.
(d) When two working faces are approaching each other, cutting, drilling and blasting shall be done at only one working face at a time if the two faces are within 25 feet of each other.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 56 FR 51616, Oct. 11, 1991]
§ 75.1317
Primer cartridges.
(a) Primer cartridges shall be primed and loaded only by a qualified person or a person working in the presence of and under the direction of a qualified person.
(b) Primer cartridges shall not be primed until immediately before loading boreholes.
(c) Only a nonsparking punch shall be used when priming explosive cartridges.
(d) Detonators shall be completely within and parallel to the length of the cartridge and shall be secured by half-hitching the leg wires around the cartridge or secured by an equally effective method.
§ 75.1318
Loading boreholes.
(a) Explosives shall be loaded by a qualified person or a person working in the presence of and under the direction of a qualified person.
(b) When boreholes are being loaded, no other work except that necessary to protect persons shall be done in the working place or other area where blasting is to be performed.
(c) When loading boreholes drilled at an angle of 45 degrees or greater from the horizontal in solid rock or loading long holes drilled upward in anthracite mines—
(1) The first cartridge in each borehole shall be the primer cartridge with the end of the cartridge containing the detonator facing the back of the borehole; and
(2) The explosive cartridges shall be loaded in a manner that provides contact between each cartridge in the borehole.
(d) When loading other boreholes—
(1) The primer cartridge shall be the first cartridge loaded in the borehole;
(2) The end of the cartridge in which the detonator is inserted shall face the back of the borehole; and
(3) The primer cartridge and other explosives shall be pushed to the back of the borehole in a continuous column with no cartridge being deliberately crushed or deformed.
(e) An explosive shall not be loaded into a borehole if it is damaged, deteriorated or if the cartridge is incompletely filled.
(f) Explosives of different brands, types or cartridge diameters shall not be loaded in the same borehole.
(g) Only nonconductive, nonsparking tamping poles shall be used for loading and tamping boreholes. The use of nonsparking connecting devices for extendable tamping poles is permitted.
[53 FR 46786, Nov. 18, 1988; 54 FR 888, Jan. 10, 1989]
§ 75.1319
Weight of explosives permitted in boreholes in bituminous and lignite mines.
(a) The total weight of explosives loaded in any borehole in bituminous and lignite mines shall not exceed 3 pounds except when blasting solid rock in its natural deposit.
(b) The total weight of explosives loaded in a borehole less than 6 feet deep in bituminous and lignite mines shall be reduced by
1/2
pound for each foot of borehole less than 6 feet.
§ 75.1320
Multiple-shot blasting.
(a) No more than 20 boreholes shall be fired in a round unless permitted in writing by the District Manager under § 75.1321.
(b) Instantaneous detonators shall not be used in the same circuit with delay detonators in any underground coal mine.
(c) In bituminous and lignite mines, only detonators with delay periods of 1,000 milliseconds or less shall be used.
(d) When blasting in anthracite mines, each borehole in a round shall be initiated in sequence from the opener hole or holes.
(e) Arrangement of detonator delay periods for bituminous and lignite mines shall be as follows:
(1) When blasting cut coal—
(i) The first shot or shots fired in a round shall be initiated in the row nearest the kerf or the row or rows nearest the shear; and
(ii) After the first shot or shots, the interval between the designated delay periods of successive shots shall be at least 50 milliseconds but not more than 100 milliseconds.
(2) When blasting coal off the solid—
(i) Each shot in the round shall be initiated in sequence from the opener hole or holes; and
(ii) After the first shot or shots, the interval between the designated delay periods of successive shots shall be at least 50 milliseconds but not more than 100 milliseconds.
§ 75.1321
Permits for firing more than 20 boreholes and for use of nonpermissible blasting units.
(a) Applications for permits for firing more than 20 boreholes in a round and for the use of nonpermissible blasting
units shall be submitted in writing to the District Manager for the district in which the mine is located and shall contain the following information:
(1) The name and address of the mine;
(2) The active workings in the mine affected by the permit and the approximate number of boreholes to be fired;
(3) The period of time during which the permit will apply;
(4) The nature of the development or construction for which they will be used, e.g., overcasts, undercasts, track grading, roof brushing or boom holes;
(5) A plan, proposed by the operator designed to protect miners in the mine from the hazards of methane and other explosive gases during each multiple shot, e.g., changes in the mine ventilation system, provisions for auxiliary ventilation and any other safeguards necessary to minimize such hazards;
(6) A statement of the specific hazards anticipated by the operator in blasting for overcasts, undercasts, track grading, brushing of roof, boom holes or other unusual blasting situations such as coalbeds of abnormal thickness; and
(7) The method to be employed to avoid the dangers anticipated during development or construction which will ensure the protection of life and the prevention of injuries to the miners exposed to such underground blasting.
(b) The District Manager may permit the firing of more than 20 boreholes of permissible explosives in a round where he has determined that it is necessary to reduce the overall hazard to which miners are exposed during underground blasting. He may also permit the use of nonpermissible blasting units if he finds that a permissible blasting unit does not have adequate blasting capacity and that the use of such permissible units will create any of the following development or construction hazards:
(1) Exposure to disturbed roof in an adjacent cavity while scaling and supporting the remaining roof prior to wiring a new series of boreholes;
(2) Exposure to underburden boreholes where prior rounds have removed the burden adjacent to a remaining borehole;
(3) Exposure to an unsupported roof while redrilling large fragmented roof rock following the loss of predrilled boreholes during earlier blasting operations; or
(4) Any other hazard created by the use of permissible blasting units during underground development or construction.
(c) Permits shall be issued on a mine-by-mine basis for periods of time to be specified by the District Manager.
(d) Permits issued under this section shall specify and include as a condition of their use, any safeguards, in addition to those proposed by the operator, which the District Manager issuing such permit has determined will be required to ensure the welfare of the miners employed in the mine at the time of the blasting permitted.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.1322
Stemming boreholes.
(a) Only noncombustible material shall be used for stemming boreholes.
(b) Stemming materials other than water stemming bags shall be tamped to fill the entire cross sectional area of the borehole.
(c) Stemming material shall contact the explosive cartridge nearest the collar of the borehole.
(d) Each borehole 4 or more feet deep shall be stemmed for at least 24 inches.
(e) Each borehole less than 4 feet deep shall be stemmed for at least half the depth of the borehole.
(f) When blasting off the solid in bituminous and lignite mines, only pliable clay dummies shall be used for stemming.
(g) The diameter of a water stemming bag shall be within
1/4
of an inch of the diameter of the drill bit used to drill the borehole.
(h) Water stemming bags shall be constructed of tear-resistant and flame-resistant material and be capable of withstanding a 3-foot drop when filled without rupturing or developing leaks.
§ 75.1323
Blasting circuits.
(a) Blasting circuits shall be protected from sources of stray electric current.
(b) Detonators made by different manufacturers shall not be combined in the same blasting circuit.
(c) Detonator leg wires shall be shunted until connected into the blasting circuit.
(d) Blasting cables shall be—
(1) Well insulated, copper wire of a diameter not smaller than 18-gauge; and
(2) Long enough to permit the round to be fired from a safe location that is around at least one corner from the blasting area.
(e) Blasting cables shall be shunted until immediately before firing, except when testing for circuit continuity.
(f) Wire used between the blasting cable and detonator circuitry shall—
(1) Be undamaged;
(2) Be well insulated;
(3) Have a resistance no greater than 20-gauge copper wire; and
(4) Be not more than 30 feet long.
(g) Each wire connection in a blasting circuit shall be—
(1) Properly spliced; and
(2) Separated from other connections in the circuit to prevent accidental contact and arcing.
(h) Uninsulated connections in each blasting circuit shall be kept out of water and shall not contact the coal, roof, ribs, or floor.
(i) When 20 or fewer boreholes are fired in a round, the blasting circuit shall be wired in a single series.
(j) Immediately prior to firing, all blasting circuits shall be tested for continuity and resistance using a blasting galvanometer or other instrument specifically designed for testing blasting circuits.
[53 FR 46786, Nov. 18, 1988; 54 FR 27641, June 30, 1989]
§ 75.1324
Methane concentration and tests.
(a) No shot shall be fired in an area that contains 1.0 volume percent or more of methane.
(b) Immediately before shots are fired, the methane concentration in a working place or any other area where blasting is to be performed, shall be determined by a person qualified to test for methane.
§ 75.1325
Firing procedures.
(a) Shots shall be fired by a qualified person or a person working in the presence of and under the direction of a qualified person.
(b) Only one face in a working place shall be blasted at a time, except that when blasting cut coal up to three faces may be blasted in a round if each face has a separate kerf and no more than a total of 20 shots connected in a single series are fired in the round. A permit to fire more than 20 boreholes in a round under the provisions of 30 CFR 75.1320 and 75.1321 may not be obtained for use when blasting multiple faces.
(c) Before blasting—
(1) All persons shall leave the blasting area and each immediately adjacent working place where a hazard would be created by the blast, to an area that is around at least one corner from the blasting area;
(2) The qualified person shall ascertain that all persons are a safe distance from the blasting area; and
(3) A warning shall be given and adequate time allowed for persons to respond.
(d) All shots shall be fired promptly, after all persons have been removed to a safe location.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 56 FR 51616, Oct. 11, 1991]
§ 75.1326
Examination after blasting.
(a) After blasting, the blasting area shall not be entered until it is clear of smoke and dust.
(b) Immediately after the blasting area has cleared, a qualified person or a person working in the presence of and under the direction of a qualified person, shall examine the area for misfires, methane and other hazardous conditions.
(c) If a round has partially detonated, the qualified person shall immediately leave the area and no person shall reenter the affected area for at least 5 minutes.
§ 75.1327
Misfires.
(a) When misfires occur, only work by a qualified person to dispose of misfires and other work necessary to protect persons shall be done in the affected area.
(b) When a misfire cannot be disposed of—
(1) A qualified person shall post each accessible entrance to the area affected by the hazard of the misfire with a warning at a conspicuous location to prohibit entry; and
(2) The misfire shall be immediately reported to mine management.
[53 FR 46786, Nov. 18, 1988; 54 FR 27641, June 30, 1989]
§ 75.1328
Damaged or deteriorated explosives and detonators.
(a) Damaged explosives or detonators shall be—
(1) Placed in separate containers constructed of nonconductive and nonsparking materials; and
(2) Removed from the mine or placed in a magazine and removed when the magazine is resupplied.
(b) Damaged detonators shall be shunted, if practicable, either before being removed from the mine or placed in a magazine.
(c) Deteriorated explosives and detonators shall be handled and disposed of in accordance with the instructions of the manufacturer.

# Subpart O—Hoisting and Mantrips
§ 75.1400
Hoisting equipment; general.
(a) Every hoist used to transport persons shall be equipped with overspeed, overwind, and automatic stop controls.
(b) Every hoist handling a platform, cage, or other device used to transport persons shall be equipped with brakes capable of stopping the fully loaded platform, cage, or other device.
(c) Cages, platforms, or other devices used to transport persons in shafts and slopes shall be equipped with safety catches or other no less effective devices approved by the Secretary that act quickly and effectively in an emergency. Such catches or devices shall be tested at least once every two months.
(d) Hoisting equipment, including automatic elevators, used to transport persons shall be examined daily.
(e) Where persons are transported into or out of a mine by a hoist, a qualified hoisting engineer shall be on duty while any person is underground. No such engineer, however, shall be required for automatically operated cages, platforms, or elevators.
[48 FR 53239, Nov. 25, 1983]
§ 75.1400-1
Hoists; brakes, capability.
Brakes on hoists used to transport persons shall be capable of stopping and holding the fully loaded platform, cage, or other device at any point in the shaft, slope, or incline.
§ 75.1400-2
Hoists; tests of safety catches; records.
A record shall be made in a book of the tests, required by § 75.1400, of the safety catches or other devices approved by the Secretary. Each entry shall be signed by the person making the tests and countersigned by a responsible official.
§ 75.1400-3
Daily examination of hoisting equipment.
Hoists and elevators shall be examined daily and such examinations shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(a)
Elevators.
A visual examination of the rope for wear, broken wires, and corrosion, especially at excessive strain points such as near the attachments and where the rope rests on sheaves;
(b)
Hoists and elevators.
(1) An examination of the rope fastenings for defects;
(2) An examination of safety catches;
(3) An examination of the cages, platforms, elevators, or other devices for loose, missing or defective parts;
(4) An examination of the head sheaves to check for broken flanges, defective bearings, rope alignment, and proper lubrication; and
(5) An observation of the lining and all other equipment and appurtenances installed in the shaft.
[48 FR 53239, Nov. 25, 1983]
§ 75.1400-4
Certifications and records of daily examinations.
At the completion of each daily examination required by § 75.1400, the person making the examination shall certify, by signature and date, that the examination has been made. If any unsafe condition is found during the examinations required by § 75.1400-3, the
person conducting the examination shall make a record of the condition and the date. Certifications and records shall be retained for one year.
[48 FR 53239, Nov. 25, 1983, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.1401
Hoists; rated capacities; indicators.
Hoists shall have rated capacities consistent with the loads handled. An accurate and reliable indicator of the position of the cage, platform, skip, bucket, or cars shall be provided.
[48 FR 53239, Nov. 25, 1983]
§ 75.1401-1
Hoists; indicators.
The indicator required by § 75.1401 of this subpart shall be placed so that it is in clear view of the hoisting engineer and shall be checked daily to determine its accuracy.
[48 FR 53239, Nov. 25, 1983]
§ 75.1402
Communication between shaft stations and hoist room.

# [Statutory Provisions]
There shall be at least two effective methods approved by the Secretary of signaling between each of the shaft stations and the hoist room, one of which shall be a telephone or speaking tube.
§ 75.1402-1
Communication between shaft stations and hoist room.
One of the methods used to communicate between shaft stations and the hoist room shall give signals which can be heard by the hoisting engineer at all times while men are underground.
§ 75.1402-2
Tests of signaling systems.
Signaling systems used for communication between shaft stations and the hoist room shall be tested daily.
§ 75.1403
Other safeguards.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Other safeguards adequate, in the judgment of an authorized representative of the Secretary, to minimize hazards with respect to transportation of men and materials shall be provided.
§ 75.1403-1
General criteria.
(a) Sections 75.1403-2 through 75.1403-11 set out the criteria by which an authorized representative of the Secretary will be guided in requiring other safeguards on a mine-by-mine basis under § 75.1403. Other safeguards may be required.
(b) The authorized representative of the Secretary shall in writing advise the operator of a specific safeguard which is required pursuant to § 75.1403 and shall fix a time in which the operator shall provide and thereafter maintain such safeguard. If the safeguard is not provided within the time fixed and if it is not maintained thereafter, a notice shall be issued to the operator pursuant to section 104 of the Act.
(c) Nothing in the sections in the § 75.1403 series in this Subpart O precludes the issuance of a withdrawal order because of imminent danger.
§ 75.1403-2
Criteria—Hoists transporting materials; brakes.
Hoists and elevators used to transport materials should be equipped with brakes capable of stopping and holding the fully loaded platform, cage, skip, car, or other device at any point in the shaft, slope, or incline.
§ 75.1403-3
Criteria—Drum clutch; cage construction.
(a) The clutch of a free-drum on a personnel hoist should be provided with a locking mechanism or interlocked with the brake to prevent accidental withdrawal of the clutch.
(b) Cages used for hoisting persons should be constructed with the sides enclosed to a height of at least six feet and should have gates, safety chains, or bars across the ends of the cage when persons are being hoisted or lowered.
(c) Self-dumping cages, platforms, or other devices used for transportation of persons should have a locking device to prevent tilting when persons are transported.
(d) An attendant should be on duty at the surface when persons are being hoisted or lowered at the beginning and end of each shift.
(e) Precautions should be taken to protect persons working in shaft sumps.
(f) Workers should wear safety belts while doing work in or over shafts.
[48 FR 53239, Nov. 25, 1983]
§ 75.1403-4
Criteria—Automatic elevators.
(a) The doors of automatic elevators should be equipped with interlocking switches so arranged that the elevator car will be immovable while any door is opened or unlocked, and arranged so that such door or doors cannot be inadvertently opened when the elevator car is not at a landing.
(b) A “Stop” switch should be provided in the automatic elevator compartment that will permit the elevator to be stopped at any location in the shaft.
(c) A slack cable device should be used where appropriate on automatic elevators which will automatically shut-off the power and apply the brakes in the event the elevator is obstructed while descending.
(d) Each automatic elevator should be provided with a telephone or other effective communication system by which aid or assistance can be obtained promptly.
§ 75.1403-5
Criteria—Belt conveyors.
(a) Positive-acting stop controls should be installed along all belt conveyors used to transport men, and such controls should be readily accessible and maintained so that the belt can be stopped or started at any location.
(b) Belt conveyors used for regularly scheduled mantrips should be stopped while men are loading or unloading.
(c) All belt conveyors used for the transportation of persons should have a minimum vertical clearance of 18 inches from the nearest overhead projection when measured from the edge of the belt and there should be at least 36 inches of side clearance where men board or leave such belt conveyors.
(d) When men are being transported on regularly scheduled mantrips on belt conveyors the belt speed should not exceed 300 feet per minute when the vertical clearance is less than 24 inches, and should not exceed 350 feet per minute when the vertical clearance is 24 inches or more.
(e) Adequate illumination including colored lights or reflective signs should be installed at all loading and unloading stations. Such colored lights and reflective signs should be so located as to be observable to all persons riding the belt conveyor.
(f) After supplies have been transported on belt conveyors such belts should be examined for unsafe conditions prior to the transportation of men on regularly scheduled mantrips, and belt conveyors should be clear before men are transported.
(g) A clear travelway at least 24 inches wide should be provided on both sides of all belt conveyors installed after March 30, 1970. Where roof supports are installed within 24 inches of a belt conveyor, a clear travelway at least 24 inches wide should be provided on the side of such support farthest from the conveyor.
(h) On belt conveyors that do not transport men, stop and start controls should be installed at intervals not to exceed 1,000 feet. Such controls should be properly installed and positioned so as to be readily accessible.
(i) Telephone or other suitable communications should be provided at points where men or supplies are regularly loaded on or unloaded from the belt conveyors.
(j) Persons should not cross moving belt conveyors, except where suitable crossing facilities are provided.
§ 75.1403-6
Criteria—Self-propelled personnel carriers.
(a) Each self-propelled personnel carrier should:
(1) Be provided with an audible warning device;
(2) Be provided with a sealed-beam headlight, or its equivalent, on each end;
(3) Be provided with reflectors on both ends and sides.
(b) In addition, each track-mounted self-propelled personnel carrier should:
(1) Be provided with a suitable lifting jack and bar, which shall be secured or carried in a tool compartment;
(2) Be equipped with 2 separate and independent braking systems properly installed and well maintained;
(3) Be equipped with properly installed and well-maintained sanding devices, except that personnel carriers (jitneys), which transport not more
than 5 men, need not be equipped with such sanding device;
(4) If an open type, be equipped with guards of sufficient strength and height to prevent personnel from being thrown from such carriers.
§ 75.1403-7
Criteria—Mantrips.
(a) Mantrips should be operated independently of any loaded trip, empty trip, or supply trip and should not be operated within 300 feet of any trip, including another mantrip.
(b) A sufficient number of mantrip cars should be provided to prevent overcrowding of men.
(c) Mantrips should not be pushed.
(d) Where mantrips are operated by locomotives on slopes such mantrips should be coupled to the front and rear by locomotives capable of holding such mantrips. Where ropes are used on slopes for mantrip haulage, such conveyances should be connected by chains, steel ropes, or other effective devices between mantrip cars and the rope.
(e) Safety goggles or eyeshields should be provided for all persons being transported in open-type mantrips.
(f) All trips, including trailers and sleds, should be operated at speeds consistent with conditions and the equipment used, and should be so controlled that they can be stopped within the limits of visibility.
(g) All mantrips should be under the direction of a supervisor and the operator of each mantrip should be familiar with the haulage safety rules and regulations.
(h) Men should proceed in an orderly manner to and from mantrips and no person should be permitted to get on or off a moving mantrip.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) Mantrips should not be permitted to proceed until the operator of the mantrip is assured that he has a clear road.
(k) Supplies or tools, except small hand tools or instruments, should not be transported with men.
(l) At places where men enter or leave mantrip conveyances, ample clearance should be provided and provisions made to prevent persons from coming in contact with energized electric circuits.
(m) The mine car next to a trolley locomotive should not be used to transport men. Such cars may be used to transport small tools and supplies. This is not to be construed as permitting the transportation of large or bulky supplies such as shuttle car wheel units, or similar material.
(n) Drop-bottom cars used to transport men should have the bottoms secured with an additional locking device.
(o) Extraneous materials or supplies should not be transported on top of equipment; however, materials and supplies that are necessary for or related to the operation of such equipment may be transported on top of such equipment if a hazard is not introduced.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 53 FR 46786, Nov. 18, 1988]
§ 75.1403-8
Criteria—Track haulage roads.
(a) The speed at which haulage equipment is operated should be determined by the condition of the roadbed, rails, rail joints, switches, frogs, and other elements of the track and the type and condition of the haulage equipment.
(b) Track haulage roads should have a continuous clearance on one side of at least 24 inches from the farthest projection of normal traffic. Where it is necessary to change the side on which clearance is provided, 24 inches of clearance should be provided on both sides for a distance of not less than 100 feet and warning signs should be posted at such locations.
(c) Track haulage roads developed after March 30, 1970, should have clearance on the “tight” side of at least 12 inches from the farthest projection of normal traffic. A minimum clearance of 6 inches should be maintained on the “tight” side of all track haulage roads developed prior to March 30, 1970.
(d) The clearance space on all track haulage roads should be kept free of loose rock, supplies, and other loose materials.
(e) Positive stopblocks or derails should be installed on all tracks near the top and at landings of shafts, slopes, and surface inclines.
§ 75.1403-9
Criteria—Shelter holes.
(a) Shelter holes should be provided on track haulage roads at intervals of not more than 105 feet unless otherwise approved by the Coal Mine Safety District Manager(s).
(b) Shelter holes should be readily accessible and should be at least 5 feet in depth, not more than 4 feet in width (except crosscuts used as shelter holes) and at least the height of the coal seam where the coal seam is less than 6 feet high and at least 6 feet in height where the coal seam is 6 feet or more in height.
(c) Shelter holes should be kept free of refuse and other obstructions. Crosscuts used as shelter holes should be kept free of refuse or other materials to a depth of at least 15 feet.
(d) Shelter holes should be provided at all manually operated doors and at switch throws except: (1) At room switches, or (2) at switches where more than 6 feet of side clearance is provided. The Coal Mine Safety District Manager(s) may permit exemption of this requirement if such shelter holes create a hazardous roof condition.
(e) At each underground slope landing where men pass and cars are handled, a shelter hole at least 10 feet in depth, 4 feet in width, and 6 feet in height should be provided.
§ 75.1403-10
Criteria—Haulage; general.
(a) A permissible trip light or other approved device such as reflectors, approved by the Coal Mine Safety District Manager(s), should be used on the rear of trips pulled, on the front of trips pushed and on trips lowered in slopes. However, trip lights or other approved devices need not be used on cars being shifted to and from loading machines, on cars being handled at loading heads, during gathering operations at working faces, when trailing locomotives are used, or on trips pulled by animals.
(b) Cars on main haulage roads should not be pushed, except where necessary to push cars from side tracks located near the working section to the producing entries and rooms, where necessary to clear switches and sidetracks, and on the approach to cages, slopes, and surface inclines.
(c) Warning lights or reflective signs or tapes should be installed along haulage roads at locations of abrupt or sudden changes in the overhead clearance.
(d) No person, other than the motorman and brakeman, should ride on a locomotive unless authorized by the mine foreman, and then only when safe riding facilities are provided. No person should ride on any loaded car or on the bumper of any car. However, the brakeman may ride on the rear bumper of the last car of a slow moving trip pulled by a locomotive.
(e) Positive-acting stopblocks or derails should be used where necessary to protect persons from danger of runaway haulage equipment.
(f) An audible warning should be given by the operator of all self-propelled equipment including off-track equipment, where persons may be endangered by the movement of the equipment.
(g) Locomotives and personnel carriers should not approach to within 300 feet of preceding haulage equipment, except trailing locomotives that are an integral part of the trip.
(h) A total of at least 36 inches of unobstructed side clearance (both sides combined) should be provided for all rubber-tired haulage equipment where such equipment is used.
(i) Off-track haulage roadways should be maintained as free as practicable from bottom irregularities, debris, and wet or muddy conditions that affect the control of the equipment.
(j) Operators of self-propelled equipment should face in the direction of travel.
(k) Mechanical steering and control devices should be maintained so as to provide positive control at all times.
(l) All self-propelled rubber-tired haulage equipment should be equipped with well maintained brakes, lights, and a warning device.
(m) On and after March 30, 1971, all tram control switches on rubber-tired equipment should be designed to provide automatic return to the stop or off position when released.
§ 75.1403-11
Criteria—Entrances to shafts and slopes.
All open entrances to shafts should be equipped with safety gates at the
top and at each landing. Such gates should be self-closing and should be kept closed except when the cage is at such landing.
§ 75.1404
Automatic brakes; speed reduction gear.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Each locomotive and haulage car used in an underground coal mine shall be equipped with automatic brakes, where space permits. Where space does not permit automatic brakes, locomotives and haulage cars shall be subject to speed reduction gear, or other similar devices approved by the Secretary, which are designed to stop the locomotives and haulage cars with the proper margin of safety.
§ 75.1404-1
Braking system.
A locomotive equipped with a dual braking system will be deemed to satisfy the requirements of § 75.1404 for a train comprised of such locomotive and haulage cars, provided the locomotive is operated within the limits of its design capabilities and at speeds consistent with the condition of the haulage road. A trailing locomotive or equivalent devices should be used on trains that are operated on ascending grades.
§ 75.1405
Automatic couplers.

# [Statutory Provisions]
All haulage equipment acquired by an operator of a coal mine on or after March 30, 1971, shall be equipped with automatic couplers which couple by impact and uncouple without the necessity of persons going between the ends of such equipment. All haulage equipment without automatic couplers in use in a mine on March 30, 1970, shall also be so equipped within 4 years after March 30, 1970.
§ 75.1405-1
Automatic couplers, haulage equipment.
The requirement of § 75.1405 with respect to automatic couplers applies only to track haulage cars which are regularly coupled and uncoupled.

# Wire Ropes

# Source:
Sections 75.1429 through 75.1438 appear at 48 FR 53239, Nov. 25, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 75.1429
Guide ropes.
If guide ropes are used in shafts for personnel hoisting applications other than shaft development, the nominal strength (manufacturer's published catalog strength) of the guide rope at installation shall meet the minimum value calculated as follows: Minimum value = Static Load × 5.0.
§ 75.1430
Wire ropes; scope.
(a) Sections 75.1430 through 75.1438 apply to wire ropes in service used to hoist—
(1) Persons in shafts or slopes underground; or
(2) Loads in shaft or slope development when persons work below the suspended loads.
(b) These standards do not apply to wire ropes used for elevators.
§ 75.1431
Minimum rope strength.
At installation, the nominal strength (manufacturer's published catalog strength) of wire ropes used for hoisting shall meet the minimum rope strength values obtained by the following formulas in which “L” equals the maximum suspended rope length in feet:
(a)
Winding drum ropes
(all constructions, including rotation resistant).
For rope lengths less than 3,000 feet:
Minimum Value = Static Load × (7.0−0.001L)
For rope lengths 3,000 feet or greater:
Minimum Value = Static Load × 4.0
(b)
Friction drum ropes.
For rope lengths less than 4,000 feet:
Minimum Value = Static Load × (7.0 − 0.0005L)
For rope lengths 4,000 feet or greater:
Minimum Value = Static Load × 5.0
(c)
Tail ropes
(balance ropes).
Minimum Value = Weight of Rope × 7.0
[48 FR 53239, Nov. 25, 1983; 48 FR 54975, Dec. 8, 1983]
§ 75.1432
Initial measurement.
After initial rope stretch but before visible wear occurs, the rope diameter
of newly installed wire ropes shall be measured at least once in every third interval of active length and the measurements averaged to establish a baseline for subsequent measurements. A record of the measurements and the date shall be made by the person taking the measurements. This record shall be retained until the rope is retired from service.
[48 FR 53239, Nov. 25, 1983, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.1433
Examinations.
(a) At least once every fourteen calendar days, each wire rope in service shall be visually examined along its entire active length for visible structural damage, corrosion, and improper lubrication or dressing. In addition, visual examination for wear and broken wires shall be made at stress points, including the area near attachments, where the rope rests on sheaves, where the rope leaves the drum, at drum crossovers, and at change-of-layer regions. When any visible condition that results in a reduction of rope strength is present, the affected portion of the rope shall be examined on a daily basis.
(b) Before any person is hoisted with a newly installed wire rope or any wire rope that has not been examined in the previous fourteen calendar days, the wire rope shall be examined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) At least once every six months, nondestructive tests shall be conducted of the active length of the rope, or rope diameter measurements shall be made—
(1) Wherever wear is evident;
(2) Where the hoist rope rests on sheaves at regular stopping points;
(3) Where the hoist rope leaves the drum at regular stopping points; and
(4) At drum crossover and change-of-layer regions.
(d) At the completion of each examination required by paragraph (a) of this section, the person making the examination shall certify, by signature and date, that the examination has been made. If any condition listed in paragraph (a) of this standard is present, the person conducting the examination shall make a record of the condition and the date. Certifications and records of examinations shall be retained for one year.
(e) The person making the measurements or nondestructive tests as required by paragraph (c) of this section shall record the measurements or test results and the date. This record shall be retained until the rope is retired from service.
[48 FR 53239, Nov. 25, 1983, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.1434
Retirement criteria.
Unless damage or deterioration is removed by cutoff, wire ropes shall be removed from service when any of the following conditions occurs:
(a) The number of broken wires within a rope lay length, excluding filler wires, exceeds either—
(1) Five percent of the total number of wires; or
(2) Fifteen percent of the total number of wires within any strand;
(b) On a regular lay rope, more than one broken wire in the valley between strands in one rope lay length;
(c) A loss of more than one-third of the original diameter of the outer wires;
(d) Rope deterioration from corrosion;
(e) Distortion of the rope structure;
(f) Heat damage from any source;
(g) Diameter reduction due to wear that exceeds six percent of the baseline diameter measurement; or
(h) Loss of more than ten percent of rope strength as determined by nondestructive testing.
§ 75.1435
Load end attachments.
(a) Wire rope shall be attached to the load by a method that develops at least 80 percent of the nominal strength of the rope.
(b) Except for terminations where use of other materials is a design feature, zinc (spelter) shall be used for socketing wire ropes. Design feature means either the manufacturer's original design or a design approved by a registered professional engineer.
(c) Load end attachment methods using splices are prohibited.
§ 75.1436
Drum end attachment.
(a) For drum end attachment, wire rope shall be attached—
(1) Securely by clips after making one full turn around the drum spoke;
(2) Securely by clips after making one full turn around the shaft, if the drum is fixed to the shaft; or
(3) By properly assembled anchor bolts, clamps, or wedges, provided that the attachment is a design feature of the hoist drum. Design feature means either the manufacturer's original design or a design approved by a registered professional engineer.
(b) A minimum of three full turns of wire rope shall be on the drum when the rope is extended to its maximum working length.
§ 75.1437
End attachment retermination.
Damaged or deteriorated wire rope shall be removed by cutoff and the rope reterminated where there is—
(a) More than one broken wire at an attachment;
(b) Improper installation of an attachment;
(c) Slippage at an attachment; or
(d) Evidence of deterioration from corrosion at an attachment.
§ 75.1438
End attachment replacement.
Wire rope attachments shall be replaced when cracked, deformed, or excessively worn.

# Subpart P—Mine Emergencies
§ 75.1500
[Reserved]
§ 75.1501
Emergency evacuations.
(a) For each shift that miners work underground, there shall be in attendance a responsible person designated by the mine operator to take charge during mine emergencies involving a fire, explosion, or gas or water inundation.
(1) The responsible person shall have current knowledge of the assigned location and expected movements of miners underground, the operation of the mine ventilation system, the locations of the mine escapeways and refuge alternatives, the mine communications system, any mine monitoring system if used, locations of firefighting equipment, the mine's Emergency Response Plan, the Mine Rescue Notification Plan, and the Mine Emergency Evacuation and Firefighting Program of Instruction.
(2) The responsible person shall be trained annually in a course of instruction in mine emergency response, as prescribed by MSHA's Office of Educational Policy and Development. The course will include topics such as the following:
(i) Organizing a command center;
(ii) Coordinating firefighting personnel;
(iii) Deploying firefighting equipment;
(iv) Coordinating mine rescue personnel;
(v) Establishing fresh air base;
(vi) Deploying mine rescue teams;
(vii) Providing for mine gas sampling and analysis;
(viii) Establishing security;
(ix) Initiating an emergency mine evacuation;
(x) Contacting emergency personnel; and
(xi) Communicating appropriate information related to the emergency.
(3) The operator shall certify by signature and date after each responsible person has completed the training and keep the certification at the mine for 1 year.
(b) The responsible person shall initiate and conduct an immediate mine evacuation when there is a mine emergency which presents an imminent danger to miners due to fire or explosion or gas or water inundation. Only properly trained and equipped persons essential to respond to the mine emergency may remain underground.
(c) The mine operator shall instruct all miners of the identity of the responsible person designated by the operator for their workshift. The mine operator shall instruct miners of any change in the identity of the responsible person before the start of their workshift.
(d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to restrict the ability of other persons in the mine to warn of an imminent danger which warrants evacuation.
[68 FR 53049, Sept. 9, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 7655, Feb. 8, 2008; 73 FR 80697, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.1502
Mine emergency evacuation and firefighting program of instruction.
Each operator of an underground coal mine shall adopt and follow a mine emergency evacuation and firefighting program that instructs all miners in the proper procedures they must follow if a mine emergency occurs.
(a)
Program approval.
The operator shall submit this program of instruction, and any revisions, for approval to the District Manager of the Coal Mine Safety and Health district in which the mine is located. Within 30 days of approval, the operator shall conduct training in accordance with the revised program.
(b)
New or revised provisions.
Before implementing any new or revised approved provision in the program of instruction, the operator shall instruct miners in the change.
(c)
Instruction plan.
The approved program shall include a specific plan designed to instruct miners on all shifts on the following:
(1) Procedures for—
(i) Evacuating the mine for mine emergencies that present an imminent danger to miners due to fire, explosion, or gas or water inundation;
(ii) Evacuating all miners not required for a mine emergency response; and
(iii) The rapid assembly and transportation of necessary miners, fire suppression equipment, and rescue apparatus to the scene of the mine emergency.
(2) The use, care, and maintenance of self-rescue devices, including hands-on training in the complete donning and transferring of all types of self-rescue devices used at the mine.
(3) The deployment, use, and maintenance of refuge alternatives.
(4) Scenarios requiring a discussion of options and a decision as to the best option for evacuation under each of the various mine emergencies (fires, explosions, or gas or water inundations). These options shall include:
(i) Encountering conditions in the mine or circumstances that require immediate donning of self-rescue devices.
(ii) Using continuous directional lifelines or equivalent devices, tethers, and doors;
(iii) Traversing undercasts or overcasts;
(iv) Switching escapeways, as applicable;
(v) Negotiating any other unique escapeway conditions; and
(vi) Using refuge alternatives.
(5) Location and use of the fire suppression and firefighting equipment and materials available in the mine.
(6) Location of the escapeways, exits, routes of travel to the surface, including the location of continuous directional lifelines or equivalent devices.
(7) Location, quantity, types, and use of stored SCSRs, as applicable.
(8) A review of the mine map; the escapeway system; the escape, firefighting, and emergency evacuation plan in effect at the mine; and the locations of refuge alternatives and abandoned areas.
(9) A description of how miners will receive annual expectations training that includes practical experience in donning and transferring SCSRs in smoke, simulated smoke, or an equivalent environment and breathing through a realistic SCSR training unit or device that provides the sensation of SCSR airflow resistance and heat.
(10) A summary of the procedures related to deploying refuge alternatives.
(11) A summary of the construction methods for 15 psi stoppings constructed prior to an event.
(12) A summary of the procedures related to refuge alternative use.
(d)
Instructors.
(1) The mine operator shall designate a person who has the ability, training, knowledge, or experience to conduct the mine emergency evacuation instruction and drills in his or her area of expertise.
(2) Persons conducting SCSR donning and transferring training shall be able to effectively train and evaluate whether miners can successfully don the SCSR and transfer to additional SCSR devices.
[71 FR 71452, Dec. 8, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 80697, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.1503
Use of fire suppression equipment.
In addition to the approved program of instruction required by 30 CFR
75.1502, each operator of an underground coal mine shall ensure the following.
(a)
Working section.
At least two miners in each working section on each production shift shall be proficient in the use of all fire suppression equipment available on such working section, and know the location of such fire suppression equipment.
(b)
Attended equipment.
Each operator of attended equipment specified in 30 CFR 75.1107-1(c)(1), and each miner assigned to perform job duties at the job site in the direct line of sight of attended equipment as described in 30 CFR 75.1107-1(c)(2), shall be proficient in the use of fire suppression devices installed on such attended equipment.
(c)
Maintenance shift.
The shift foreman and at least one miner for every five miners working underground on a maintenance shift shall be proficient in the use of fire suppression equipment available in the mine, and know the location of such fire suppression equipment.
[71 FR 71452, Dec. 8, 2006]
§ 75.1504
Mine emergency evacuation training and drills.
Each operator of an underground coal mine shall conduct mine emergency evacuation training and drills and require all miners to participate.
(a)
Schedule of training and drills.
Each miner shall participate in a mine emergency evacuation training and drill once each quarter. Quarters shall be based on a calendar year (Jan-Mar, Apr-Jun, Jul-Sep, Oct-Dec). In addition—
(1) A newly hired miner, who has not participated in a mine emergency evacuation training and drill at the mine within the previous 3 months, shall participate in the next applicable mine emergency evacuation training and drill.
(2) Prior to assuming duties on a section or outby work location, a foreman shall travel both escapeways in their entirety.
(b)
Content of quarterly training and drill.
Each quarterly evacuation training and drill shall include the following:
(1) Hands-on training on all types of self-rescue devices used at the mine, which includes—
(i) Instruction and demonstration in the use, care, and maintenance of self-rescue devices;
(ii) The complete donning of the SCSR by assuming a donning position, opening the device, activating the device, inserting the mouthpiece, and putting on the nose clip; and
(iii) Transferring between all applicable self-rescue devices.
(2) Training that emphasizes the importance of—
(i) Recognizing when the SCSR is not functioning properly and demonstrating how to initiate and reinitiate the starting sequence;
(ii) Not removing the mouthpiece, even to communicate, until the miner reaches fresh air; and
(iii) Proper use of the SCSR by controlling breathing and physical exertion.
(3) A realistic escapeway drill that is initiated and conducted with a different approved scenario each quarter and during which each miner—
(i) Travels the primary or alternate escapeway in its entirety, alternating escapeways each quarter;
(ii) Physically locates and practices using the continuous directional lifelines or equivalent devices and tethers, and physically locates the stored SCSRs and refuge alternatives;
(iii) Traverses undercasts or overcasts and doors;
(iv) Switches escapeways, as applicable; and
(v) Negotiates any other unique escapeway conditions.
(4) A review of the mine and escapeway maps, the firefighting plan, and the mine emergency evacuation plan in effect at the mine, which shall include:
(i) Informing miners of the locations of fire doors, check curtains, changes in the routes of travel, and plans for diverting smoke from escapeways.
(ii) Locating escapeways, exits, routes of travel to the surface, abandoned areas, and refuge alternatives.
(5) Operation of the fire suppression equipment available in the mine and the location and use of firefighting equipment and materials.
(6) Reviewing the procedures for deploying refuge alternatives and components.
(7) For miners who will be constructing the 15 psi stoppings prior to an event, reviewing the procedures for constructing them.
(8) Reviewing the procedures for use of the refuge alternatives and components.
(9) Task training in proper transportation of the refuge alternatives and components.
(c)
Annual expectations training.
Over the course of each year, each miner shall participate in expectations training that includes the following:
(1) Donning and transferring SCSRs in smoke, simulated smoke, or an equivalent environment.
(2) Breathing through a realistic SCSR training unit that provides the sensation of SCSR airflow resistance and heat.
(3) Deployment and use of refuge alternatives similar to those in use at the mine, including—
(i) Deployment and operation of component systems; and
(ii) Instruction on when to use refuge alternatives during a mine emergency, emphasizing that it is the last resort when escape is impossible.
(4) A miner shall participate in expectations training within one quarter of being employed at the mine.
(d)
Certification of training and drills.
At the completion of each training or drill required in this section, the operator shall certify by signature and date that the training or drill was held in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(1) This certification shall include the names of the miners participating in the training or drill. For each miner, this certification shall list the content of the training or drill component completed, including the escapeway traveled and scenario used, as required in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(2) Certifications shall be kept at the mine for one year.
(3) Upon request, the certifications shall be made available to an authorized representative of the Secretary and the representative of the miners.
(4) Upon request, a copy of the certification that shows his or her own training shall be provided to the participating miner.
[71 FR 71452, Dec. 8, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 80698, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.1505
Escapeway maps.
(a)
Content and accessibility.
An escapeway map shall show the designated escapeways from the working sections or the miners' work stations to the surface or the exits at the bottom of the shaft or slope, refuge alternatives, and SCSR storage locations. The escapeway map shall be posted or readily accessible for all miners—
(1) In each working section;
(2) In each area where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed;
(3) At the refuge alternative; and
(4) At a surface location of the mine where miners congregate, such as at the mine bulletin board, bathhouse, or waiting room.
(b)
Keeping maps current.
All maps shall be kept up-to-date and any change in route of travel, location of doors, location of refuge alternatives, or direction of airflow shall be shown on the maps by the end of the shift on which the change is made.
(c)
Informing affected miners.
Miners underground on a shift when any such change is made shall be notified immediately of the change and other affected miners shall be informed of the change before entering the underground areas of the mine.
[71 FR 71452, Dec. 8, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 80698, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.1506
Refuge alternatives.
(a) Each operator shall provide refuge alternatives and components as follows:
(1) Prefabricated self-contained units, including the structural, breathable air, air monitoring, and harmful gas removal components of the unit, shall be approved under 30 CFR part 7; and
(2) The structural components of units consisting of 15 psi stoppings constructed prior to an event shall be approved by the District Manager, and the breathable air, air monitoring, and harmful gas removal components of
these units shall be approved under 30 CFR part 7.
(3) Prefabricated refuge alternative structures that states have approved and those that MSHA has accepted in approved Emergency Response Plans (ERPs) that are in service prior to March 2, 2009 are permitted until December 31, 2018, or until replaced, whichever comes first. Breathable air, air-monitoring, and harmful gas removal components of either a prefabricated self-contained unit or a unit consisting of 15 psi stoppings constructed prior to an event in a secure space and an isolated atmosphere that states have approved and those that MSHA has accepted in approved ERPs that are in use prior to March 2, 2009 are permitted until December 31, 2013, or until replaced, whichever comes first. Refuge alternatives consisting of materials pre-positioned for miners to deploy in a secure space with an isolated atmosphere that MSHA has accepted in approved ERPs that are in use prior to March 2, 2009 are permitted until December 31, 2010, or until replaced, whichever comes first.
(b) Except as permitted under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, each operator shall provide refuge alternatives with sufficient capacity to accommodate all persons working underground.
(1) Refuge alternatives shall provide at least 15 square feet of floor space per person and 30 to 60 cubic feet of volume per person according to the following chart. The airlock can be included in the space and volume if waste is disposed outside the refuge alternative.
Mining height (inches)
Unrestricted volume
(cubic feet) per person*
36 or less
30
36-≤42
37.5
42-≤48
45
48-≤54
52.5
54
60
* Includes an adjustment of 12 inches for clearances.
(2) Refuge alternatives for working sections shall accommodate the maximum number of persons that can be expected on or near the section at any time.
(3) Each refuge alternative for outby areas shall accommodate persons reasonably expected to use it.
(c) Refuge alternatives shall be provided at the following locations:
(1) Within 1,000 feet from the nearest working face and from locations where mechanized mining equipment is being installed or removed except that for underground anthracite coal mines that have no electrical face equipment, refuge alternatives shall be provided if the nearest working face is greater than 2,000 feet from the surface.
(2) Spaced within one-hour travel distances in outby areas where persons work such that persons in outby areas are never more than a 30-minute travel distance from a refuge alternative or safe exit. However, the operator may request and the District Manager may approve a different location in the ERP. The operator's request shall be based on an assessment of the risk to persons in outby areas, considering the following factors: proximity to seals; proximity to potential fire or ignition sources; conditions in the outby areas; location of stored SCSRs; and proximity to the most direct, safe, and practical route to an intake escapeway.
(d) Roof and rib support for refuge alternative locations shall be specified in the mine's roof control plan.
(e) The operator shall protect the refuge alternative and contents from damage during transportation, installation, and storage.
(f) A refuge alternative shall be removed from service if examination reveals damage that interferes with the functioning of the refuge alternative or any component.
(1) If a refuge alternative is removed from service, the operator shall withdraw all persons from the area serviced by the refuge alternative, except those persons referred to in § 104(c) of the Mine Act.
(2) Refuge alternative components removed from service shall be replaced or be repaired for return to service in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
(g) At all times, the site and area around the refuge alternative shall be kept clear of machinery, materials, and obstructions that could interfere with the deployment or use of the refuge alternative.
(h) Each refuge alternative shall be conspicuously identified with a sign or marker as follows:
(1) A sign or marker made of a reflective material with the word “REFUGE” shall be posted conspicuously at each refuge alternative.
(2) Directional signs made of a reflective material shall be posted leading to each refuge alternative location.
(i) During use of the refuge alternative, the atmosphere within the refuge alternative shall be monitored. Changes or adjustments shall be made to reduce the concentration of methane to less than 1 percent; to reduce the concentration of carbon dioxide to 1 percent or less and excursions not exceeding 2.5 percent; and to reduce the concentration of carbon monoxide to 25 ppm or less. Oxygen shall be maintained at 18.5 to 23 percent.
(j) Refuge alternatives shall contain a fire extinguisher that—
(1) Meets the requirements for portable fire extinguishers used in underground coal mines under this part;
(2) Is appropriate for extinguishing fires involving the chemicals used for harmful gas removal; and
(3) Uses a low-toxicity extinguishing agent that does not produce a hazardous by-product when activated.
[73 FR 80698, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.1507
Emergency Response Plan; refuge alternatives.
(a) The Emergency Response Plan (ERP) shall include the following for each refuge alternative and component:
(1) The types of refuge alternatives used in the mine,
i.e.
, a prefabricated self-contained unit or a unit consisting of 15 psi stoppings constructed prior to an event in a secure space and an isolated atmosphere.
(2) Procedures or methods for maintaining approved refuge alternatives and components.
(3) The rated capacity of each refuge alternative, the number of persons expected to use each refuge alternative, and the duration of breathable air provided per person by the approved breathable air component of each refuge alternative.
(4) The methods for providing breathable air with sufficient detail of the component's capability to provide breathable air over the duration stated in the approval.
(5) The methods for providing ready backup oxygen controls and regulators.
(6) The methods for providing an airlock and for providing breathable air in the airlock, except where adequate positive pressure is maintained.
(7) The methods for providing sanitation facilities.
(8) The methods for harmful gas removal, if necessary.
(9) The methods for monitoring gas concentrations, including charging and calibration of equipment.
(10) The method for providing lighting sufficient for persons to perform tasks.
(11) Suitable locations for the refuge alternatives and an affirmative statement that the locations are—
(i) Not within direct line of sight of the working face; and
(ii) Where feasible, not placed in areas directly across from, nor closer than 500 feet radially from, belt drives, take-ups, transfer points, air compressors, explosive magazines, seals, entrances to abandoned areas, and fuel, oil, or other flammable or combustible material storage. However, the operator may request and the District Manager may approve an alternative location in the ERP if mining involves two-entry systems or yield pillars in a longwall that would prohibit locating the refuge alternative out of direct line of sight of the working face.
(12) The maximum mine air temperature at each of the locations where refuge alternatives are to be placed.
(b) For a refuge alternative consisting of 15 psi stoppings constructed prior to an event in a secure space and an isolated atmosphere, the ERP shall specify that—
(1) The breathable air components shall be approved by MSHA; and
(2) The refuge alternative can withstand exposure to a flash fire of 300 degrees Fahrenheit (°F) for 3 seconds and a pressure wave of 15 pounds per square inch (psi) overpressure for 0.2 seconds.
(c) If the refuge alternative sustains persons for only 48 hours, the ERP shall detail advanced arrangements that have been made to assure that persons who cannot be rescued within
48 hours will receive additional supplies to sustain them until rescue. Advance arrangements shall include the following:
(1) Pre-surveyed areas for refuge alternatives with closure errors of less than 20,000:1.
(2) An analysis to demonstrate that the surface terrain, the strata, the capabilities of the drill rig, and all other factors that could affect drilling are such that a hole sufficient to provide required supplies and materials reliably can be promptly drilled within 48 hours of an accident at a mine.
(3) Permissions to cross properties, build roads, and construct drill sites.
(4) Arrangement with a drilling contractor or other supplier of drilling services to provide a suitable drilling rig, personnel and support so that a hole can be completed to the refuge alternative within 48 hours.
(5) Capability to promptly transport a drill rig to a pre-surveyed location such that a drilled hole would be completed and located near a refuge alternative structure within 48 hours of an accident at a mine.
(6) The specifications of pipes, air lines, and approved fans or approved compressors that will be used.
(7) A method for assuring that within 48 hours, breathable air shall be provided.
(8) A method for assuring the immediate availability of a backup source for supplying breathable air and a backup power source for surface installations.
(d) The ERP shall specify that the refuge alternative is stocked with the following:
(1) A minimum of 2,000 calories of food and 2.25 quarts of potable water per person per day in approved containers sufficient to sustain the maximum number of persons reasonably expected to use the refuge alternative for at least 96 hours, or for 48 hours if advance arrangements are made under paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) A manual that contains sufficient detail for each refuge alternative or component addressing in-mine transportation, operation, and maintenance of the unit;
(3) Sufficient quantities of materials and tools to repair components; and
(4) First aid supplies.
[73 FR 80699, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.1508
Training and records for examination, maintenance and repair of refuge alternatives and components.
(a) Persons examining, maintaining, or repairing refuge alternatives and components shall be instructed in how to perform this work.
(1) The operator shall assure that all persons assigned to examine, maintain, and repair refuge alternatives and components are trained.
(2) The mine operator shall certify, by signature and date, the training of persons who examine, maintain, and repair refuge alternatives and components.
(b) At the completion of each repair, the person conducting the maintenance or repair shall make a record of all corrective action taken.
(c) Training certifications and repair records shall be kept at the mine for one year.
[73 FR 80699, Dec. 31, 2008]

# Subpart Q—Communications
§ 75.1600
Communications.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Telephone service or equivalent two-way communication facilities, approved by the Secretary or his authorized representative, shall be provided between the surface and each landing of main shafts and slopes and between the surface and each working section of any coal mine that is more than 100 feet from a portal.
§ 75.1600-1
Communication facilities; main portals; installation requirements.
A telephone or equivalent two-way communication facility shall be located on the surface within 500 feet of all main portals, and shall be installed either in a building or in a box-like structure designed to protect the facilities from damage by inclement weather. At least one of these communication facilities shall be at a location
where a responsible person who is always on duty when men are underground can hear the facility and respond immediately in the event of an emergency.
[38 FR 29999, Oct. 31, 1973]
§ 75.1600-2
Communication facilities; working sections; installation and maintenance requirements; audible or visual alarms.
(a) Telephones or equivalent two-way communication facilities provided at each working section shall be located not more than 500 feet outby the last open crosscut and not more than 800 feet from the farthest point of penetration of the working places on such section.
(b) The incoming communication signal shall activate an audible alarm, distinguishable from the surrounding noise level, or a visual alarm that can be seen by a miner regularly employed on the working section.
(c) If a communication system other than telephones is used and its operation depends entirely upon power from the mine electric system, means shall be provided to permit continued communication in the event the mine electric power fails or is cut off; provided, however, that where trolley phones and telephones are both used, an alternate source of power for the trolley phone system is not required.
(d) Trolley phones connected to the trolley wire shall be grounded in accordance with Subpart H of this part.
(e) Telephones or equivalent two-way communication facilities shall be maintained in good operating condition at all times. In the event of any failure in the system that results in loss of communication, repairs shall be started immediately, and the system restored to operating condition as soon as possible.
[38 FR 29999, Oct. 31, 1973]
§ 75.1600-3
Communications facilities; refuge alternatives.
(a) Refuge alternatives shall be provided with a communications system that consists of—
(1) A two-way communication facility that is a part of the mine communication system, which can be used from inside the refuge alternative; and
(2) An additional communication system and other requirements as defined in the communications portion of the operator's approved Emergency Response Plan.
[73 FR 80700, Dec. 31, 2008]

# Subpart R—Miscellaneous
§ 75.1700
Oil and gas wells.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Each operator of a coal mine shall take reasonable measures to locate oil and gas wells penetrating coalbeds or any underground area of a coal mine. When located, such operator shall establish and maintain barriers around such oil and gas wells in accordance with State laws and regulations, except that such barriers shall not be less than 300 feet in diameter, unless the Secretary or his authorized representative permits a lesser barrier consistent with the applicable State laws and regulations where such lesser barrier will be adequate to protect against hazards from such wells to the miners in such mine, or unless the Secretary or his authorized representative requires a greater barrier where the depth of the mine, other geologic conditions, or other factors warrant such a greater barrier.
§ 75.1702
Smoking; prohibition.

# [Statutory Provisions]
No person shall smoke, carry smoking materials, matches, or lighters underground, or smoke in or around oil houses, explosives magazines, or other surface areas where such practice may cause a fire or explosion. The operator shall institute a program, approved by the Secretary, to insure that any person entering the underground area of the mine does not carry smoking materials, matches, or lighters.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.1702-1
Smoking programs.
Programs required under § 75.1702 shall be submitted to the Coal Mine Safety District Manager for approval on or before May 30, 1970.
§ 75.1703
Portable electric lamps.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Persons underground shall use only permissible electric lamps approved by the Secretary for portable illumination. No open flame shall be permitted in the underground area of any coal mine, except as permitted under § 75.1106.
§ 75.1703-1
Permissible lamps.
Lamps approved by the Bureau of Mines or the Mine Safety and Health Administration under Part 19 or Part 20 of this chapter (Bureau of Mines Schedule 6D and Schedule 10C) are approved lamps for the purposes of § 75.1703.
§ 75.1707-1
New working section.
The term “new working section” as used in § 75.1707 means any extension of the belt or trolley haulage system in main, cross, and room entries necessary for the development of the mine on and after March 30, 1970. Room entries being developed as of March 30, 1970, with certified stop line limitations as shown on the mine map and retreating panels shall not be considered as new working sections.
§ 75.1708
Surface structures, fireproofing.

# [Statutory Provisions]
After March 30, 1970, all structures erected on the surface within 100 feet of any mine opening shall be of fireproof construction. Unless structures existing on or prior to such date which are located within 100 feet of any mine opening are of such construction, fire doors shall be erected at effective points in mine openings to prevent smoke or fire from outside sources endangering miners underground. These doors shall be tested at least monthly to insure effective operation. A record of such tests shall be kept in an area on the surface of the mine chosen by the operator to minimize the danger of destruction by fire or other hazard and shall be available for inspection by interested persons.
§ 75.1708-1
Surface structures; fireproof construction.
Structures of fireproof construction is interpreted to mean structures with fireproof exterior surfaces.
§ 75.1709
Accumulations of methane and coal dust on surface coal-handling facilities.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Adequate measures shall be taken to prevent methane and coal dust from accumulating in excessive concentrations in or on surface coal-handling facilities, but in no event shall methane be permitted to accumulate in concentrations in or on surface coal-handling facilities in excess of limits established for methane by the Secretary on and after March 30, 1971. Where coal is dumped at or near air-intake openings, provisions shall be made to avoid dust from entering the mine.
§ 75.1710
Canopies or cabs; diesel-powered and electric face equipment.
In any coal mine where the height of the coalbed permits, an authorized representative of the Secretary may require that diesel-powered and electric face equipment, including shuttle cars, be provided with substantially constructed canopies or cabs to protect the miners operating such equipment from roof falls and from rib and face rolls.
[61 FR 55527, Oct. 25, 1996]
§ 75.1710-1
Canopies or cabs; self-propelled diesel-powered and electric face equipment; installation requirements.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, all self-propelled diesel-powered and electric face equipment, including shuttle cars, which is employed in the active workings of each underground coal mine on and after January 1, 1973, shall, in accordance with the schedule of time specified in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6) of this section, be equipped with substantially constructed canopies or cabs, located and installed in such a manner that when the operator is at the operating controls of such equipment he shall be protected from falls of roof, face, or rib, or from rib
and face rolls. The requirements of this paragraph (a) shall be met as follows:
(1) On and after January 1, 1974, in coal mines having mining heights of 72 inches or more;
(2) On and after July 1, 1974, in coal mines having mining heights of 60 inches or more, but less than 72 inches;
(3) On and after January 1, 1975, in coal mines having mining heights of 48 inches or more, but less than 60 inches;
(4) On and after July 1, 1975, in coal mines having mining heights of 36 inches or more, but less than 48 inches;
(5)(i) On and after January 1, 1976, in coal mines having mining heights of 30 inches or more, but less than 36 inches,
(ii) On and after July 1, 1977, in coal mines having mining heights of 24 inches or more, but less than 30 inches, and
(6) On and after July 1, 1978, in coal mines having mining heights of less than 24 inches.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, a canopy means a structure which provides overhead protection against falls of roof.
(2) For purposes of this section, a cab means a structure which provides overhead and lateral protection against falls of roof, rib, and face, or rib and face rolls.
(c) In determining whether to install substantially constructed canopies as opposed to substantially constructed cabs, the operator shall consider and take into account the following factors:
(1) The mining method used;
(2) Physical limitations, including but not limited to the dip of the coalbed, and roof, rib, and face conditions;
(3) Previous accident experience, if any, caused by falls of roof, rib, and face, or rib and face rolls;
(4) Overhead protection, such as that afforded by a substantially constructed canopy, against falls of roof will always be required; and
(5) Lateral protection, such as that afforded by a substantially constructed cab, may also be necessary where the occurrence of falls of rib and face, or rib and face rolls is likely.
(d) For purposes of this section, a canopy or cab will be considered to be substantially constructed if a registered engineer certifies that such canopy or cab has the minimum structural capacity to support elastically:
(1) A dead weight load of 18,000 pounds, or
(2) 15 p.s.i. distributed uniformly over the plan view area of the structure, whichever is lesser.
(e) Evidence of the certification required by paragraph (d) of this section shall be furnished by attaching a plate, label, or other appropriate marking to the canopy or cab for which certification has been made, stating that such canopy or cab meets the minimum requirements for structural capacity set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. Written evidence of such certification shall also be retained by the operator, and shall be made available to an authorized representative of the Secretary upon request. Written evidence of certification may consist of the report of the registered engineer who certified the canopy or cab, or of information from the manufacturer of the canopy or cab stating that a registered engineer has certified that the canopy or cab meets the minimum requirements for structural capacity set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) An operator may apply to the Director of Technical Support, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452, for approval of the installation of devices to be used in lieu of substantially constructed canopies or cabs on self-propelled diesel-powered and electric face equipment. The Director of Technical Support may approve such devices if he determines that the use thereof will afford the equipment operator no less than the same measure of protection from falls of roof, face, or rib, or from rib and face rolls as would a substantially constructed canopy or cab meeting the requirements of this section.
[37 FR 20690, Oct. 3, 1972, as amended at 41 FR 23200, June 9, 1976; 43 FR 12320, Mar. 24, 1978; 47 FR 28096, June 29, 1982; 61 FR 55527, Oct. 25, 1996; 67 FR 38386, June 4, 2002; 80 FR 52992, Sept. 2, 2015]

# Effective Date Note:
At 42 FR 34877, July 7, 1977, the dates appearing in paragraphs (a)(5)(ii) and (a)(6) of § 75.1710-1 were suspended indefinitely, effective July 1, 1977.
§ 75.1711
Sealing of mines.

# [Statutory Provisions]
On or after March 30, 1970, the opening of any coal mine that is declared inactive by the operator, or is permanently closed, or abandoned for more than 90 days, shall be sealed by the operator in a manner prescribed by the Secretary. Openings of all other mines shall be adequately protected in a manner prescribed by the Secretary to prevent entrance by unauthorized persons.
§ 75.1711-1
Sealing of shaft openings.
Shaft openings required to be sealed under § 75.1711 shall be effectively capped or filled. Filling shall be for the entire depth of the shaft and, for the first 50 feet from the bottom of the coalbed, the fill shall consist of incombustible material. Caps consisting of a 6-inch thick concrete cap or other equivalent means may be used for sealing. Caps shall be equipped with a vent pipe at least 2 inches in diameter extending for a distance of at least 15 feet above the surface of the shaft.
§ 75.1711-2
Sealing of slope or drift openings.
Slope or drift openings required to be sealed under § 75.1711 shall be sealed with solid, substantial, incombustible material, such as concrete blocks, bricks or tile, or shall be completely filled with incombustible material for a distance of at least 25 feet into such openings.
§ 75.1711-3
Openings of active mines.
The openings of all mines not declared by the operator, to be inactive, permanently closed, or abandoned for less than 90 days shall be adequately fenced or posted with conspicuous signs prohibiting the entrance of unauthorized persons.
§ 75.1712
Bath houses and toilet facilities.

# [Statutory Provisions]
The Secretary may require any operator to provide adequate facilities for the miners to change from the clothes worn underground, to provide for the storing of such clothes from shift to shift, and to provide sanitary and bathing facilities. Sanitary toilet facilities shall be provided in the active workings of the mine when such surface facilities are not readily accessible to the active workings.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.1712-1
Availability of surface bathing facilities; change rooms; and sanitary facilities.
Except where a waiver has been granted pursuant to the provisions of § 75.1712-4, each operator of an underground coal mine shall on and after December 30, 1970, provide bathing facilities, clothing change rooms, and sanitary facilities, as hereinafter prescribed, for the use of the miners at the mine.
§ 75.1712-2
Location of surface facilities.
Bathhouses, change rooms, and sanitary toilet facilities shall be in a location convenient for the use of the miners. Where such facilities are designed to serve more than one mine, they shall be centrally located so as to be as convenient for the use of the miners in all the mines served by such facilities.
§ 75.1712-3
Minimum requirements of surface bathing facilities, change rooms, and sanitary toilet facilities.
(a) All bathing facilities, change rooms, and sanitary toilet facilities shall be provided with adequate light, heat, and ventilation so as to maintain a comfortable air temperature and to minimize the accumulation of moisture and odors, and such facilities shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
(b) Bathing facilities, change rooms, and sanitary toilet facilities shall be constructed and equipped so as to comply with applicable State and local building codes:
Provided, however,
That where no State or local building codes apply to such facilities, or where no State or local building codes exist, such facilities shall be constructed and equipped so as to meet the minimum construction requirements of the National Building Code; and the minimum plumbing requirements of the U.S.A. Standard Plumbing Code, ASA A40.8-1955.
(c) In addition to the minimum requirements specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this § 75.1712-3, facilities maintained in accordance with § 75.1712-1 shall include the following:
(1)
Bathing facilities.
(i) Showers shall be provided with both hot and cold water.
(ii) At least one shower head shall be provided where five or less miners use such showers.
(iii) Where five or more miners use such showers, sufficient showers shall be furnished to provide approximately one shower head for each five miners.
(iv) A suitable cleansing agent shall be provided for use at each shower.
(2)
Sanitary toilet facilities.
(i) At least one sanitary flush toilet shall be provided where 10 or less miners use such facilities.
(ii) Where 10 or more miners use such sanitary toilet facilities, sufficient toilets shall be furnished to provide approximately one sanitary flush toilet for each 10 miners.
(iii) Where 30 or more miners use sanitary toilet facilities, one urinal may be substituted for one sanitary flush toilet, however, where such substitutions are made they shall not reduce the number of toilets below a ratio of two toilets to one urinal.
(iv) An adequate supply of toilet paper shall be provided with each toilet.
(v) Adequate handwashing facilities or hand lavatories shall be provided in or adjacent to each toilet facility.
(3)
Change rooms.
(i) Individual clothes storage containers or lockers shall be provided for storage of miners clothing and other incidental personal belongings during and between shifts.
(ii) Change rooms shall be provided with ample space to permit the use of such facilities by all miners changing clothes prior to and after each shift.
§ 75.1712-4
Waiver of surface facilities requirements.
The Coal Mine Safety District Manager for the district in which the mine is located may, upon written application by the operator, waive any or all of the requirements of §§ 75.1712-1 through 75.1712-3 if he determines that the operator of the mine cannot or need not meet any part or all of such requirements, and, upon issuance of such waiver, he shall set forth the facilities which will not be required and the specific reason or reasons for such waiver.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.1712-5
Application for waiver of surface facilities.
Applications for waivers of the requirements of §§ 75.1712-1 through 75.1712-3 shall be filed with the Coal Mine Safety District Manager and shall contain the following information:
(a) The name and address of the mine operator;
(b) The name and location of the mine;
(c) A statement explaining why, in the opinion of the operator, the installation or maintenance of the facilities is impractical or unnecessary.
§ 75.1712-6
Underground sanitary facilities; installation and maintenance.
(a) Except as provided in § 75.1712-7, each operator of an underground coal mine shall provide and maintain one sanitary toilet in a dry location under protected roof, within 500 feet of each working place in the mine where miners are regularly employed during the mining cycle. A single sanitary toilet may serve two or more working places in the same mine, if it is located within 500 feet of each such working place.
(b) Sanitary toilets shall have an attached toilet seat with a hinged lid and a toilet paper holder together with an adequate supply of toilet tissue, except that a toilet paper holder is not required for an unenclosed toilet facility.
(c) Only flush or nonflush chemical or biological toilets, sealed bag toilets, and vault toilets meet the requirements of this section. Privies and combustion or incinerating toilets are prohibited underground.
[68 FR 37087, June 23, 2003]
§ 75.1712-7
Underground sanitary facilities; waiver of requirements.
If it has been determined by the Coal Mine Safety District Manager for the district in which the mine is located that sanitary toilets cannot be provided and maintained within 500 feet of
a working place because of the thickness of the coal seam or because of any other physical restriction in the underground workings, he may, upon written application by the operator, waive the location requirements for underground sanitary facilities with respect to such working place.
§ 75.1712-8
Application for waiver of location requirements for underground sanitary facilities.
Applications for waivers of the location requirements of § 75.1712-6 shall be filed with the Coal Mine Safety District Manager and shall contain the following information:
(a) The name and address of the mine operator;
(b) The name and location of the mine;
(c) The thickness of the coal seam in each working place in the mine for which a waiver is requested; and
(d) Other physical restrictions in the mine (for example, poor roof conditions, excessive water, timbering, etc.).
If a sanitary toilet cannot be installed within 500 feet of a working place because of physical conditions other than the thickness of the coal seam, the operator shall also include a short statement specifying areas in the mine which could be considered possible alternative sites for installation of such facilities.
§ 75.1712-9
Issuance of waivers.
Following the receipt of an application submitted in accordance with the provisions of § 75.1712-8, the Coal Mine Safety District Manager shall, if he determines that the operator cannot meet the location requirements of § 75.1712-6 with respect to any or all of the working places in the mine because of the coal seam thickness or because of other physical restriction, issue a waiver of the requirements of this section and designate an alternative site for installation of such facilities. The waiver issued shall specify each working place to which it shall apply, set forth the reasons for such waiver, and the reasons for designation of the alternative site.
§ 75.1712-10
Underground sanitary facilities; maintenance.
Sanitary toilets shall be regularly maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. Holding tanks shall be serviced and cleaned when full and in no case less than once each week by draining or pumping or by removing them to the surface for cleaning or recharging. Transfer tanks and transfer equipment used underground shall be equipped with suitable fittings to permit complete drainage of holding tanks without spillage and allow for the sanitary transportation of wastes to the surface. Waste shall be disposed of on the surface in accordance with State and local laws and regulations.
§ 75.1713
Emergency medical assistance; first-aid.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Each operator shall make arrangements in advance for obtaining emergency medical assistance and transportation for injured persons. Emergency communications shall be provided to the nearest point of assistance. Selected agents of the operator shall be trained in first-aid and first-aid training shall be made available to all miners. Each coal mine shall have an adequate supply of first-aid equipment located on the surface, at the bottom of shafts and slopes, and at other strategic locations near the working faces. In fulfilling each of the requirements of this section, the operator shall meet at least minimum requirements prescribed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 47 FR 14696, Apr. 6, 1982; 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.1713-1
Arrangements for emergency medical assistance and transportation for injured persons; agreements; reporting requirements; posting requirements.
(a) Each operator of an underground coal mine shall make arrangements with a licensed physician, medical service, medical clinic, or hospital to provide 24-hour emergency medical assistance for any person injured at the mine.
(b) Each operator of an underground coal mine shall make arrangements with an ambulance service, or otherwise provide, for 24-hour emergency transportation for any person injured at the mine.
(c) Each operator shall, on or before December 30, 1970, report to the District Manager for the district in which the mine is located the name, title and address of the physician, medical service, medical clinic, hospital or ambulance service with whom arrangements have been made, or otherwise provided, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this § 75.1713-1.
(d) Each operator shall, within 10 days after any change of the arrangements required to be reported under the provisions of this § 75.1713-1, report such changes to the District Manager. If such changes involve a substitution of persons, the operator shall provide the name, title, and address of the person substituted together with the name and address of the medical service, medical clinic, hospital, or ambulance service with which such person or persons are associated.
(e) Each operator shall, immediately after making an arrangement required under the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this § 75.1713-1, or immediately after any change of such arrangement, post at appropriate places at the mine the names, titles, addresses, and telephone numbers of all persons or services currently available under such arrangements to provide medical assistance and transportation at the mine.
§ 75.1713-2
Emergency communications; requirements.
(a) Each operator of an underground coal mine shall establish and maintain a communication system from the mine to the nearest point of medical assistance for use in an emergency.
(b) The emergency communication system required to be maintained under paragraph (a) of this § 75.1713-2 may be established by telephone or radio transmission or by any other means of prompt communication to any facility (for example, the local sheriff, the State highway patrol, or local hospital) which has available the means of communication with the person or persons providing emergency medical assistance or transportation in accordance with the provisions of § 75.1713-1.
§ 75.1713-3
First-Aid training; supervisory employees.
The mine operator shall conduct first-aid training courses for selected supervisory employees at the mine. Within 60 days after the selection of a new supervisory employee to be so trained, the mine operator shall certify by signature and date the name of the employee and date on which the employee satisfactorily completed the first-aid training course. The certification shall be kept at the mine and made available on request to an authorized representative of the Secretary.
[56 FR 1478, Jan. 14, 1991]
§ 75.1713-4
First-aid training program; availability of instruction to all miners.
On or before June 30, 1971, each operator of an underground coal mine shall make available to all miners employed in the mine a course of instruction in first-aid conducted by the operator or under the auspices of the operator, and such a course of instruction shall be made available to newly employed miners within 6 months after the date of employment.
§ 75.1713-5
First-aid training program; retraining of supervisory employees; availability to all miners.
Beginning January 1, 1971, each operator of an underground coal mine shall conduct refresher first-aid training courses each calendar year for all selected supervisory employees, and make available refresher first-aid training courses to all miners employed in the mine.
§ 75.1713-6
First-aid training program; minimum requirements.
(a) All first-aid training programs required under the provisions of §§ 75.1713-3 and 75.1713-4 shall include 10 class hours of training in a course of instruction similar to that outlined in “First Aid, A Bureau of Mines Instruction Manual.”
(b) Refresher first-aid training programs required under the provisions of § 75.1713-5 shall include five class hours of refresher training in a course of instruction similar to that outlined in “First Aid, A Bureau of Mines Instruction Manual.”
§ 75.1713-7
First-aid equipment; location; minimum requirements.
(a) Each operator of an underground coal mine shall maintain a supply of the first-aid equipment set forth in paragraph (b) of this § 75.1713-7 at each of the following locations:
(1) At the mine dispatcher's office or other appropriate work area on the surface in close proximity to the mine entry;
(2) At the bottom of each regularly traveled slope or shaft; however, where the bottom of such slope or shaft is not more than 1,000 feet from the surface, such first-aid supplies may be maintained on the surface at the entrance to the mine; and
(3) At a point in each working section not more than 500 feet outby the active working face or faces.
(b) The first-aid equipment required to be maintained under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this § 75.1713-7 shall include at least the following:
(1) One stretcher;
(2) One broken-back board. (If a splint stretcher combination is used it will satisfy the requirements of both (1) and (2)).
(3) 24 triangular bandages (15 if a splint-stretcher combination is used).
(4) Eight 4-inch bandage compresses;
(5) Eight 2-inch bandage compresses.
(6) Twelve 1-inch adhesive compresses;
(7) One foille;
(8) Two cloth blankets:
(9) One rubber blanket or equivalent substitute.
(10) Two tourniquets;
(11) One 1-ounce bottle of aromatic spirits of ammonia or 1 dozen ammonia ampules.
(12) The necessary complements of arm and leg splints or two each inflatable plastic arm and leg splints.
(c) All first-aid supplies required to be maintained under the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this § 75.1713-7 shall be stored in suitable, sanitary, dust tight, moisture proof containers and such supplies shall be accessible to the miners.
§ 75.1714
Availability of approved self-rescue devices; instruction in use and location.
(a) Each operator shall make available to each miner who goes underground, and to visitors authorized to enter the mine by the operator, an approved self-rescue device or devices which is adequate to protect such person for 1 hour or longer.
(b) Before any person authorized by the operator goes underground, the operator shall instruct and train such person in accordance with provisions set forth in 30 CFR part 48.
[43 FR 54246, Nov. 21, 1978, as amended at 53 FR 10336, Mar. 30, 1988; 60 FR 30401, June 8, 1995; 71 FR 71454, Dec. 8, 2006]
§ 75.1714-1
Approved self-rescue devices.
The requirements of § 75.1714 shall be met by making available to each person referred to in that section a self-rescue device or devices, which have been approved by MSHA and NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84, as follows:
(a) A 1-hour SCSR;
(b) A SCSR of not less than 10 minutes and a 1-hour canister; or
(c) Any other self-contained breathing apparatus which provides protection for a period of 1 hour or longer and which is approved for use by MSHA as a self-rescue device when used and maintained as prescribed by MSHA.
[60 FR 30401, June 8, 1995]
§ 75.1714-2
Self-rescue devices; use and location requirements.
(a) Self-rescue devices shall be used and located as prescribed in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c), (d), (e), or (f) of this section, self-rescue devices shall be worn or carried at all times by each person when underground.
(c) Where the wearing or carrying of the self-rescue device is hazardous to the person, it shall be placed in a readily accessible location no greater than 25 feet from such person.
(d) Where a person works on or around equipment, the self-rescue device may be placed in a readily accessible location on such equipment.
(e) A mine operator may apply to the District Manager under § 75.1502 for permission to place the SCSR more than 25 feet away.
(1) The District Manager shall consider the following factors in deciding whether to permit an operator to place a SCSR more than 25 feet from a miner:
(i) Distance from affected sections to surface,
(ii) Pitch of seam in affected sections,
(iii) Height of coal seam in affected sections,
(iv) Location of escapeways,
(v) Proposed location of SCSRs,
(vi) Type of work performed by affected miners,
(vii) Degree of risk to which affected miners are exposed,
(viii) Potential for breaking into oxygen deficient atmospheres,
(ix) Type of risk to which affected miners are exposed,
(x) Accident history of mine, and
(xi) Other matters bearing upon the safety of miners.
(2) Such application shall not be approved by the District Manager unless it provides that, while underground, all miners whose SCSR is more than 25 feet away shall have a FSR approved by MSHA and NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84 sufficient to enable each miner to get to a SCSR.
(3) An operator may not obtain permission under paragraph (e) of this section to place SCSRs more than 25 feet away from miners on trips into and out of the mine.
(f) If an SCSR is not carried out of the mine at the end of a miner's shift, the place of storage shall be approved by the District Manager. A sign made of reflective material with the word “SCSRs” or “SELF-RESCUERS” shall be conspicuously posted at each SCSR storage location. Direction signs made of a reflective material shall be posted leading to each storage location.
(g) Where devices of not less than 10 minutes and 1 hour are made available in accordance with § 75.1714-1(b), such devices shall be used and located as follows:
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the device of not less than 10 minutes shall be worn or carried at all times by each person when underground, and
(2) The one-hour canister shall be available at all times to all persons when underground in accordance with a plan submitted by the mine operator and approved by the District Manager. When the one-hour canister is placed in a storage location, a sign made of a reflective material with the word “SCSRs” or “SELF-RESCUERS” shall be conspicuously posted at each storage location. Direction signs made of a reflective material shall be posted leading to each storage location.
[43 FR 54246, Nov. 21, 1978, as amended at 60 FR 30401, June 8, 1995; 69 FR 8108, Feb. 23, 2004; 71 FR 12270, Mar. 9, 2006; 71 FR 71454, Dec. 8, 2006]
§ 75.1714-3
Self-rescue devices; inspection, testing, maintenance, repair, and recordkeeping.
(a) Each operator shall provide for proper inspection, testing, maintenance, and repair of self-rescue devices by a person trained to perform such functions.
(b) After each time a self-rescue device is worn or carried by a person, the device shall be inspected for damage and for the integrity of its seal by a person trained to perform this function. Self-rescue devices with broken seals or which are damaged so that the device will not function properly shall be removed from service.
(c) All FSRs approved by MSHA and NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84, except devices using vacuum containers as the only method of sealing, shall be tested at intervals not exceeding 90 days by weighing each device on a scale or balance accurate to within + 1 gram. A device that weighs more than 10 grams over its original weight shall be removed from service.
(d) All SCSRs approved by MSHA and NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84 shall be tested in accordance with instructions approved by MSHA and NIOSH. Any device which does not meet the specified test requirements shall be removed from service.
(e) At the completion of each test required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section the person making the tests shall certify by signature and date that the tests were done. This person shall make a record of all corrective action taken. Certifications and records shall be kept at the mine and made available on request to an authorized representative of the Secretary.
(f) Self-rescue devices removed from service shall be repaired for return to service only by a person trained to perform such work and only in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
[43 FR 54246, Nov. 21, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 14706, Apr. 6, 1982; 56 FR 1478, Jan. 14, 1991; 60 FR 30402, June 8, 1995; 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.1714-4
Additional self-contained self-rescuers (SCSRs).
(a)
Additional SCSRs in work places.
In addition to the requirements in §§ 75.1714, 75.1714-1, 75.1714-2, and 75.1714-3 of this part, the mine operator shall provide the following:
(1) At least one additional SCSR, which provides protection for a period of one hour or longer, for each person at a fixed underground work location.
(2) Additional SCSRs along the normal travel routes for pumpers, examiners, and other persons who do not have a fixed work location to be stored at a distance an average miner could walk in 30 minutes. The SCSR storage locations shall be determined by using one of the methods found under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(b)
Additional SCSRs on mantrips.
If a mantrip or mobile equipment is used to enter or exit the mine, at least one additional SCSR, which provides protection for a period of one hour or longer, shall be available for each person who uses such transportation from portal to portal.
(c)
Additional SCSRs in escapeways.
When each person underground cannot safely evacuate the mine within 30 minutes, the mine operator shall provide additional SCSRs stored in each required escapeway.
(1) Each storage location shall contain at least one SCSR, which provides protection for a period of one hour or longer, for every person who will be inby that location.
(2) Storage locations shall be spaced along each escapeway at 30-minute travel distances no greater than the distances determined by—
(i) Calculating the distance an average miner walks in 30 minutes by using the time necessary for each miner in a sample of typical miners to walk a typical length of each escapeway; or
(ii) Using the SCSR storage location spacing specified in the following table, except for escapeways with grades over 5 percent.
Average entry height
Maximum distance
between SCSR storage locations (in ft.)
40 in. (Crawl)
2,200
40-
50 in. (Duck Walk)
3,300
50-
65 in. (Walk Head Bent)
4,400
65 in. (Walk Erect)
5,700
(d)
Additional SCSRs in hardened rooms.
As an alternative to providing SCSR storage locations in each escapeway, the mine operator may store SCSRs in a hardened room located between adjacent escapeways.
(1) The hardened room shall be designed and constructed to the same explosion force criteria as seals.
(2) The hardened room shall include a means to provide independent, positive pressure ventilation from the surface during an emergency.
(3) The District Manager shall approve the design and construction of hardened rooms in the ventilation plan.
(4) These SCSR storage locations shall be spaced in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(e)
Storage location accessibility.
All SCSRs required under this section shall be stored according to the manufacturers' instructions, in conspicuous locations readily accessible by each person in the mine.
(f)
Storage location signs.
A sign made of reflective material with the words “SCSRs” or “SELF-RESCUERS” shall be conspicuously posted at each storage location. Direction signs made of a reflective material shall be posted leading to each storage location.
[71 FR 71454, Dec. 8, 2006]
§ 75.1714-5
Map locations of self-contained self-rescuers (SCSR).
The mine operator shall indicate the locations of all stored SCSRs on the mine maps required by §§ 75.1200 and 75.1505 of this part.
[71 FR 71454, Dec. 8, 2006]
§ 75.1714-6
Emergency tethers.
At least one tether, which is a durable rope or equivalent material designed to permit members of a mine crew to link together while evacuating the mine during an emergency, shall be provided and stored with the additional SCSRs on the fixed work location and on the mobile equipment required in §§ 75.1714-4(a)(1) and (b) of this part.
[71 FR 71454, Dec. 8, 2006]
§ 75.1714-7
Multi-gas detectors.
(a)
Availability.
A mine operator shall provide an MSHA-approved, handheld, multi-gas detector that can measure methane, oxygen, and carbon monoxide to each group of underground miners and to each person who works alone, such as pumpers, examiners, and outby miners.
(b)
Qualified person.
At least one person in each group of underground miners shall be a qualified person under § 75.150 of this part and each person who works alone shall be trained to use the multi-gas detector.
(c)
Maintenance and calibration.
Multi-gas detectors shall be maintained and calibrated as specified in § 75.320 of this part.
[71 FR 71454, Dec. 8, 2006]
§ 75.1714-8
Reporting SCSR inventory and malfunctions; retention of SCSRs.
(a)
SCSR inventory.
A mine operator shall submit to MSHA a complete inventory of all SCSRs at each mine. New mines shall submit the inventory within 3 months of beginning operation.
(1) The inventory shall include—
(i) Mine name, MSHA mine ID number, and mine location; and
(ii) For each SCSR unit, the manufacturer, the model type, the date of manufacture, and the serial number.
(2) In the event that a change in the inventory occurs, a mine operator shall report the change to MSHA within the quarter that the change occurs (Jan-Mar, Apr-Jun, Jul-Sep, Oct-Dec).
(b)
Reporting SCSR problems.
A mine operator shall report to MSHA any defect, performance problem, or malfunction with the use of an SCSR. The report shall include a detailed description of the problem and, for each SCSR involved, the information required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(c)
Retention of problem SCSRs.
The mine operator shall preserve and retain each SCSR reported under paragraph (b) of this section for 60 days after reporting the problem to MSHA.
[71 FR 71454, Dec. 8, 2006]
§ 75.1715
Identification check system.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Each operator of a coal mine shall establish a check-in and check-out system which will provide positive identification of every person underground, and will provide an accurate record of the persons in the mine kept on the surface in a place chosen to minimize the danger of destruction by fire or other hazard. Such record shall bear a number identical to an identification check that is securely fastened to the lamp belt worn by the person underground. The identification check shall be made of a rust resistant metal of not less than 16 gauge.
§ 75.1716
Operations under water.

# [Statutory Provisions]
Whenever an operator mines coal from a coal mine opened after March 30, 1970, or from any new working section of a mine opened prior to such date, in a manner that requires the construction, operation, and maintenance of tunnels under any river, stream, lake, or other body of water, that is, in the judgment of the Secretary, sufficiently large to constitute a hazard to miners, such operator shall obtain a permit from the Secretary which shall include such terms and conditions as he deems appropriate to protect the safety of miners working or passing through such tunnels from caveins and other hazards. Such permits shall require, in accordance with a plan to be approved by the Secretary,
that a safety zone be established beneath and adjacent to such body of water. No plan shall be approved unless there is a minimum of cover to be determined by the Secretary, based on test holes drilled by the operator in a manner to be prescribed by the Secretary. No such permit shall be required in the case of any new working section of a mine which is located under any water resource reservoir being constructed by a Federal agency on December 30, 1969, the operator of which is required by such agency to operate in a manner that protects the safety of miners working in such section from cave-ins and other hazards.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 75.1716-1
Operations under water; notification by operator.
An operator planning to mine coal from coal mines opened after March 30, 1970, or from working sections in mines opened prior to such date, and in such manner that mining operations will be conducted, or tunnels constructed, under any river, stream, lake, or other body of water, shall give notice to the Coal Mine Safety District Manager in the district in which the mine is located prior to the commencement of such mining operations.
§ 75.1716-2
Permit required.
If in the judgment of the Coal Mine Safety District Manager the proposed mining operations referred to in § 75.1716-1 constitute a hazard to miners, he shall promptly so notify the operator that a permit is required.
§ 75.1716-3
Applications for permits.
An application for a permit required under this section shall be filed with the Coal Mine Safety District Manager and shall contain the following general information:
(a) Name and address of the company.
(b) Name and address of the mine.
(c) Projected mining and ground support plans.
(d) A mine map showing the locations of the river, stream, lake, or other body of water and its relation to the location of all working places.
(e) A profile map showing the type of strata and the distance in elevation between the coal bed and the river, stream, lake or other body of water involved. The type of strata shall be determined by core test drill holes as prescribed by the Coal Mine Safety District Manager.
§ 75.1716-4
Issuance of permits.
If the Coal Mine Safety District Manager determines that the proposed mining operations under water can be safely conducted, he shall issue a permit for the conduct of such operations under such conditions as he deems necessary to protect the safety of miners engaged in those operations.
§ 75.1717
Exemptions.

# [Statutory Provisions]
No notice under § 75.1716-1 and no permit under § 75.1716-2 shall be required in the case of any new working section of a mine which is located under any water resource reservoir being constructed by a Federal agency as of December 30, 1969, and where the operator is required by such agency to operate in a manner that adequately protects the safety of miners.
§ 75.1718
Drinking water.

# [Statutory Provisions]
An adequate supply of potable water shall be provided for drinking purposes in the active workings of the mine, and such water shall be carried, stored, and otherwise protected in sanitary containers.
§ 75.1718-1
Drinking water; quality.
(a) Potable water provided in accordance with the provisions of § 75.1718 shall meet the applicable minimum health requirements for drinking water established by the State or community in which the mine is located.
(b) Where no state or local health requirements apply to drinking water or where no state or local minimum health requirements exist, drinking water provided in accordance with the provisions of § 75.1718 shall contain a minimum of 0.2 milligrams of free chlorine per liter of water.
§ 75.1719
Illumination; purpose and scope of §§ 75.1719 through 75.1719-4; time for compliance.
(a) Section 317(e) of the Act (30 U.S.C. 877(e)) directs and authorizes the Secretary to propose and promulgate standards under which all working places in a mine shall be illuminated by permissible lighting while persons are working in such places §§ 75.1719 through 75.1719-4 prescribe the requirements for illumination of working places in underground coal mines while persons are working in such places and while self-propelled mining equipment is operated in the working place.
(b) Mine operators shall comply with §§ 75.1719 through 75.1719-4 not later than July 1, 1978.
[41 FR 43534, Oct. 1, 1976, as amended at 43 FR 13564, Mar. 31, 1978]
§ 75.1719-1
Illumination in working places.
(a) Each operator of an underground coal mine shall provide each working place in the mine with lighting as prescribed in §§ 75.1719-1 and 75.1719-2 while self-propelled mining equipment is operated in the working place.
(b)
Self-propelled mining equipment; definition.
For the purposes of §§ 75.1719 through 75.1719-4, “self-propelled mining equipment” means equipment which possesses the capability of moving itself or its associated components from one location to another by electric, hydraulic, pneumatic, or mechanical power supplied by a source located on the machine or transmitted to the machine by cables, ropes, or chains.
(c) The lighting prescribed in this section shall be in addition to that provided by personal cap lamps.
(d) The luminous intensity (surface brightness) of surfaces that are in a miner's normal field of vision of areas in working places that are required to be lighted shall be not less than 0.06 footlamberts when measured in accordance with § 75.1719-3.
(e) When self-propelled mining equipment specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(6) of this section is operated in a working place, the areas within a miner's normal field of vision which shall be illuminated in the working place shall be as prescribed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(6) of this section.
(1)
Continuous miners and coal-loading equipment.
In working places in which continuous miners and coal-loading equipment are operated, the areas which shall be illuminated shall be as follows:
(i) The face, and
(ii) The ribs, roof, floor, and exposed surface of mining equipment, which are between the face and the inby end of the shuttle car or other conveying equipment while in position to receive material.
(2)
Self-loading haulage equipment used as a loading machine.
In working places in which self-loading haulage equipment is operated to load material, the areas which shall be illuminated shall be as follows:
(i) The face, and
(ii) The ribs, roof, floor, and exposed surfaces of mining equipment, which are between the face and a point 5 feet outby the machine.
(3)
Cutting and drilling equipment.
In working places in which cutting or drilling equipment is operated, the areas which shall be illuminated shall be as follows:
(i) The ribs, roof, floor, and exposed surfaces of mining equipment, which are between the face and a point 5 feet outby the machine.
(4)
Shortwall and longwall mining equipment.
In working places in which shortwall or longwall mining equipment is operated, the areas which shall be illuminated shall be as follows:
(i) The area for the length of the self-advancing roof support system and which is between the gob-side of the travelway and the side of the block of coal from which coal is being extracted, and
(ii) The control station, and the head piece and tail piece of the face conveyor, and
(iii) The roof and floor for a distance of 5 feet horizontally from the control station, head piece and tail piece.
(5)
Roof bolting equipment.
In working places in which roof bolting equipment is operated, the areas which shall be illuminated shall be as follows:
(i)
Where the distance from the floor, to the roof is 5 feet, or less:
the face, ribs, roof, floor, and exposed surfaces of
mining equipment, which are within an area the perimeter of which is a distance of 5 feet from the machine, when measured parallel to the floor.
(ii)
Where the distance from the floor to the roof is more than 5 feet:
the face, ribs, roof, floor, and exposed surfaces of mining equipment, which are within an area the perimeter of which from the front and sides of the machine is a distance equal to the distance from the floor to the roof and from the rear of the machine a distance of 5 feet, when measured parallel to the floor.
(6)
Other self-propelled equipment.
Unless the entire working place is illuminated by stationary lighting equipment, in working places in which self-propelled equipment is operated, other than equipment specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(5) of this section, illumination shall be provided as follows:
(i) Luminaires shall be installed on each machine operated in the working place which shall illuminate a face or rib coal surface which is within 10 feet of the front and the rear of the machine to a luminous intensity of not less than 0.06 footlamberts, and
(ii) The height and width of the area of the coal surface which shall be illuminated shall equal the height and width, respectively, of the machine on which the luminaires are installed, and
(iii) The luminaires in the direction of travel shall be operated at all times the equipment is being trammed in the working place.
(f) The Administrator, Coal Mine Health and Safety, MSHA, may specify other areas in a working place to be illuminated for the protection of miners while self-propelled mining equipment is being operated in the working place.
(g) Surface brightness of floor, roof, coal and machine surfaces in the normal visual field of a miner shall not vary more than 50 percent between adjacent fields of similar surface reflectance, and the maximum surface brightness of such surface shall not exceed 120 footlamberts when measured in accordance with § 75.1719-3.
[41 FR 43534, Oct. 1, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 18859, Apr. 11, 1977; 43 FR 43458, Sept. 26, 1978; 47 FR 28096, June 29, 1982]
§ 75.1719-2
Lighting fixtures; requirements.
(a) Lighting fixtures shall be permissible.
(b) Lighting fixtures may be installed on self-propelled machines or may be stationary lighting fixtures.
(c)(1) Electrically operated lighting fixtures shall be energized by direct current, or by sinusoidal full wave alternating current not less than 50 cycles per second (100 pulses per second), or by an equivalent power source that causes no greater flicker.
(2) Alternating current circuits supplying power to stationary lighting fixtures shall contain conductors energized at voltages not greater than 70 volts to ground. Alternating current circuits, energized at 100 volts or more and used to supply power to stationary lighting fixtures, shall originate at a transformer having a center or neutral tap grounded to earth through a proper resistor, which shall be designed to limit fault current to not more than 5 amperes. A grounding circuit in accordance with § 75.701-4 shall originate at the grounded terminal of the grounding resistor and extend along with the power conductors and serve as a grounding conductor for the frames of all equipment receiving power from the circuit. The ground fault current rating of grounding resistors shall meet the “extended time rating” set forth in the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Standard No. 32 (IEEE Std. 32-1972) which is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. The incorporated publication is available for examination at each MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health district office, and may be obtained from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., Publications Office, 10662 Los Vaqueros Circle, P.O. Box 3014 Los Alamitos, CA 90720-1264 Telephone: 800-272-6657 (toll free);
http://www.ieee.org.
(3) Machine-mounted lighting fixtures shall be electrically grounded to the machine by a separate grounding conductor in compliance with § 75.701-4.
(d) Direct current circuits in excess of a nominal voltage of 300 volts shall not be used to supply power to stationary light fixtures.
(e) Cables conducting power to stationary lighting fixtures from both alternating and direct current power sources, other than intrinsically safe devices, shall be considered trailing cables, and shall meet the requirements of Subpart G of this part. In addition, such cables shall be protected against overloads and short circuits by a suitable circuit breaker or other device approved by the Secretary. Circuit breakers or other device approved by the Secretary protecting trailing cables receiving power from resistance grounded circuits shall be equipped with a ground trip arrangement which shall be designed to deenergize the circuit at not more than 50% of the available fault current.
(f) Before shunts are removed from blasting caps, lighting fixtures and associated cables located in the same working place shall be deenergized. Furthermore, lighting fixtures shall be removed out of the line of blast and not less than 50 feet from the blasting operation unless otherwise protected against flying debris.
(g) Lighting fixtures shall be designed and installed to minimize discomfort glare.
[41 FR 43534, Oct. 1, 1976, as amended at 71 FR 16669, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 75.1719-3
Methods of measurement; light measuring instruments.
(a) Compliance with § 75.1719-1(d) shall be determined by MSHA by measuring luminous intensity (surface brightness).
(b) In measuring luminous intensity the following procedures shall be used:
(1) In areas of working places specified in §§ 75.1719.1(e)(1) through 75.1719-1(e)(3) luminous intensity measurements of the face, ribs, roof, floor, and exposed surfaces of mining equipment, shall be made with the machine idle and located in the approximate center of the working place with the cutting, loading, or drilling head toward the face and not more than 3 feet from the face.
(2) In areas of working places specified in § 75.1719-1(e)(4) luminous intensity measurements may be made at any time longwall or shortwall mining equipment is operated except that when measurements are made in the vicinity of shearers, plows, or continuous miners, the equipment shall be idle while measurements are being made.
(3) In areas of working places specified in § 75.1719-1(e)(5) luminous intensity measurements of the face, ribs, roof, floor, and exposed surfaces of mining equipment, shall be made with the machine idle and located in the approximate center of the working place with the drilling head toward the face and a distance from the face of 5 feet, or the distance from the floor to the roof, whichever is applicable. When the machine is located in the center of the working place and the surfaces of the ribs to be illuminated are not within the perimeter of the area determined in accordance with § 75.1719-1(e)(5), the machine shall be positioned the applicable distance from the face and each rib and luminous intensity measurements made for each rib, provided, however, that luminous intensity measurements may be made of the face, roof, floor, and exposed surfaces of mining equipment with the machine so located without locating the machine in the center of the working place.
(4) In areas of working places specified in § 75.1719-1(e)(6), luminous intensity measurements of a coal surface shall be made with the machine idle and located in the approximate center of the working place with the appropriate end toward the face and not less than 9 feet nor more than 10 feet from the face.
(5) The area of surfaces to be measured shall be divided into round or square fields having an area of not less than 3 nor more than 5 square feet as illustrated by the following figure:
EC22OC91.021
(6) Measurements shall be taken with the photometer held approximately perpendicular to the surface being measured and a sufficient distance from the surface to allow the light sensing element in the instrument to receive reflected light from a field of not less than 3 nor more than 5 square feet. The luminous intensity of each such field shall be not less than 0.06 footlambert.
(7) In areas of working places where clearances are restricted to the extent that the photometer cannot be held a sufficient distance from the surface to allow the light sensing element in the instrument to receive reflected light from a field having an area of at least 3 square feet, luminous intensity shall be considered as the average of four uniformly spaced readings taken at the corners and within a square field having an area of approximately 4 square feet. In such instances, the area of each of the individual readings shall not exceed 100 square inches. The average of the four readings shall be not less than 0.06 footlambert. The method of measurement is illustrated by the following figure:
EC22OC91.022
(8) Measurements shall not be made where shadows are cast by roof control posts, ventilation equipment, or other obstructions necessary to insure safe mining conditions.
(9) Where machine-mounted light fixtures are used on equipment, except self advancing roof support systems, measurements shall not be made of surfaces on or within 1 foot of a self-propelled machine.
(c) For the purpose of making illumination measurements, an authorized representative of the Secretary may require the installation of temporary roof supports or the removal of the equipment to a similar working place in which permanent roof supports have been installed.
(d) Light measuring instruments shall be properly calibrated and maintained. Instruments shall be calibrated against standards traceable to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (Formerly the National Bureau of Standards) and color corrected to the Commission Internationale de l'Eclairage (CIE) Spectral Luminous Curve. The CIE Spectral Luminous Curve is as follows:
EC22OC91.023
[41 FR 43534, Oct. 1, 1976, as amended at 71 FR 16669, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 75.1719-4
Mining machines, cap lamps; requirements.
(a) Paint used on exterior surfaces of mining machines shall have a minimum reflectance of 30 percent, except cab interiors and other surfaces which might adversely affect visibility.
(b) When stationary light fixtures are used, red reflectors mounted in protective frames or reflecting tape shall be installed on each end of mining machines, except that continuous mining machines, loaders, and cutters need only have such reflectors or tape on the outby end. Reflectors or reflecting tape shall have an area of not less than 10 square inches.
(c) Each person who goes underground shall be required to wear an approved personal cap lamp or an equivalent portable light.
(d) Each person who goes underground shall be required to wear a hard hat or hard cap which shall have a minimum of 6 square inches of reflecting tape or equivalent paint or material on each side and back.
[41 FR 43534, Oct. 1, 1976]
§ 75.1720
Protective clothing; requirements.
On and after the effective date of this § 75.1720 each miner regularly employed in the active workings of an underground coal mine shall be required to wear the following protective clothing and devices:
(a) Protective clothing or equipment and face-shields or goggles when welding, cutting, or working with molten metal or when other hazards to the eyes exist from flying particles.
(b) Suitable protective clothing to cover those parts of the body exposed to injury when handling corrosive or toxic substances or other materials which might cause injury to the skin.
(c) Protective gloves when handling materials or performing work which might cause injury to the hands; however, gloves shall not be worn where they would create a greater hazard by becoming entangled in the moving parts of equipment.
(d) A suitable hard hat or hard cap. If a hard hat or hard cap is painted, nonmetallic based paint shall be used.
(e) Suitable protective footwear.
[36 FR 19497, Oct. 7, 1971, as amended at 39 FR 7175, Feb. 25, 1974]
§ 75.1720-1
Distinctively colored hard hats, or hard caps; identification for newly employed, inexperienced miners.
Hard hats or hard caps distinctively different in color from those worn by experienced miners shall be worn by each newly employed, inexperienced miner for at least one year from the date of his initial employment as a miner or until he has been qualified or certified as a miner by the State in which he is employed.
[39 FR 7175, Feb. 25, 1974]
§ 75.1721
Opening of new underground coal mines, or reopening and reactivating of abandoned or deactivated coal mines, notification by the operator; requirements.
(a) Each operator of a new underground coal mine, and a mine which has been abandoned or deactivated and is to be reopened or reactivated, shall prior to opening, reopening or reactivating the mine notify the Coal Mine Health and Safety District Manager for the district in which the mine is located of the approximate date of the proposed or actual opening of such mine. Thereafter, and as soon as practicable, the operator of such mine shall
submit all preliminary plans in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section to the District Manager and the operator shall not develop any part of the coalbed in such mine unless and until all preliminary plans have been approved.
(b) The preliminary plans required to be submitted by the operator to the District Manager shall be in writing and shall contain the following:
(1) The name and location of the proposed mine and the Mine Safety and Health Administration mine identification number, if known;
(2) The name and address of the mine operator(s);
(3) The name and address of the principal official designated by the operator as the person who is in charge of health and safety at the mine;
(4) The identification and approximate height of the coalbed to be developed;
(5) The system of mining to be employed;
(6) A proposed roof control plan containing the information specified in § 75.220.
(7) A proposed mine ventilation plan containing the information specified in §§ 75.371 and 75.372;
(8) A proposed plan for sealing worked-out areas containing the information specified in §§ 75.371 and 75.372.
(9) A proposed program for searching miners for smoking materials in accordance with the provisions of § 75.1702; and,
(10) A proposed plan for emergency medical assistance and emergency communication in accordance with the provisions of §§ 75.1713-1 and 75.1713-2.
(c) The preliminary plans required to be submitted by the operator to the District Manager shall be in writing and shall contain the following:
(1) The proposed training plan containing the information specified in §§ 48.3 and 48.23 of this chapter, and
(2) A proposed plan for training and retraining certified and qualified persons containing the information specified in § 75.160-1.
[44 FR 9380, Feb. 13, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 23641, May 28, 1982; 57 FR 20929, May 15, 1992]
§ 75.1722
Mechanical equipment guards.
(a) Gears; sprockets; chains; drive, head, tail, and takeup pulleys; flywheels; couplings, shafts; sawblades; fan inlets; and similar exposed moving machine parts which may be contacted by persons, and which may cause injury to persons shall be guarded.
(b) Guards at conveyor-drive, conveyor-head, and conveyor-tail pulleys shall extend a distance sufficient to prevent a person from reaching behind the guard and becoming caught between the belt and the pulley.
(c) Except when testing the machinery, guards shall be securely in place while machinery is being operated.
[38 FR 4976, Feb. 23, 1973]
§ 75.1723
Stationary grinding machines; protective devices.
(a) Stationary grinding machines other than special bit grinders shall be equipped with:
(1) Peripheral hoods (less than 90° throat openings) capable of withstanding the force of a bursting wheel.
(2) Adjustable tool rests set as close as practical to the wheel.
(3) Safety washers.
(b) Grinding wheels shall be operated within the specifications of the manufacturer of the wheel.
(c) Face shields or goggles, in good condition, shall be worn when operating a grinding wheel.
[38 FR 4976, Feb. 23, 1973]
§ 75.1724
Hand-held power tools; safety devices.
Hand-held power tools shall be equipped with controls requiring constant hand or finger pressure to operate the tools or shall be equipped with friction or other equivalent safety devices.
[38 FR 4976, Feb. 23, 1973]
§ 75.1725
Machinery and equipment; operation and maintenance.
(a) Mobile and stationary machinery and equipment shall be maintained in safe operating condition and machinery or equipment in unsafe condition shall be removed from service immediately.
(b) Machinery and equipment shall be operated only by persons authorized to operate such machinery or equipment.
(c) Repairs or maintenance shall not be performed on machinery until the power is off and the machinery is blocked against motion, except where machinery motion is necessary to make adjustments.
(d) Machinery shall not be lubricated manually while in motion, unless equipped with extended fittings or cups.
[38 FR 4976, Feb. 23, 1973]
§ 75.1726
Performing work from a raised position; safeguards.
(a) Men shall not work on or from a piece of mobile equipment in a raised position until it has been blocked in place securely. This does not preclude the use of equipment specifically designed as elevated mobile work platforms.
(b) No work shall be performed under machinery or equipment that has been raised until such machinery or equipment has been securely blocked in position.
[38 FR 4976, Feb. 23, 1973]
§ 75.1727
Drive belts.
(a) Drive belts shall not be shifted while in motion unless the machines are provided with mechanical shifters.
(b) Belt dressing shall not be applied while belts are in motion except where it can be applied without endangering a person.
[38 FR 4976, Feb. 23, 1973]
§ 75.1728
Power-driven pulleys.
(a) Belts, chains, and ropes shall not be guided onto power-driven moving pulleys, sprockets, or drums with the hands except on slow-moving equipment especially designed for hand feeding.
(b) Pulleys of conveyors shall not be cleaned manually while the conveyor is in motion.
(c) Coal spilled beneath belt conveyor drives or tail pieces shall not be removed while the conveyor is in motion, except where such coal can be removed without endangering persons.
[38 FR 4976, Feb. 23, 1973]
§ 75.1729
Welding operations.
Welding operations shall be shielded and the area shall be well ventilated.
[38 FR 4976, Feb. 23, 1973]
§ 75.1730
Compressed air; general; compressed air systems.
(a) All pressure vessels shall be constructed, installed, and maintained in accordance with the standards and specifications of Section VIII “Unfired Pressure Vessels,” of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (1971), which is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. This document may be purchased from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 22 Law Drive, P.O. Box 2900, Fairfield, New Jersey 07007, Phone: 800-843-2763 (toll free);
http://www.asme.org
; and it is available for examination in every MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health district office.
(b) Compressors and compressed-air receivers shall be equipped with automatic pressure-relief valves, pressure gages, and drain valves.
(c) Repairs involving the pressure system of compressors, receivers, or compressed-air-powered equipment shall not be attempted until the pressure has been relieved from that part of the system to be repaired.
(d) At no time shall compressed air be directed toward a person. When compressed air is used, all necessary precautions shall be taken to protect persons from injury.
(e) Safety chains, suitable locking devices, or automatic cut-off valves shall be used at connections to machines of high-pressure hose lines of three-fourths of an inch inside diameter or larger, and between high-pressure hose lines of three-fourths of an inch inside diameter or larger, where a connection failure would create a hazard. For purposes of this paragraph, high-pressure means pressure of 100 p.s.i. or more.
[38 FR 4976, Feb. 23, 1973, as amended at 71 FR 16669, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 75.1731
Maintenance of belt conveyors and belt conveyor entries.
(a) Damaged rollers, or other damaged belt conveyor components, which
pose a fire hazard must be immediately repaired or replaced. All other damaged rollers, or other damaged belt conveyor components, must be repaired or replaced.
(b) Conveyor belts must be properly aligned to prevent the moving belt from rubbing against the structure or components.
(c) Materials shall not be allowed in the belt conveyor entry where the material may contribute to a frictional heating hazard.
(d) Splicing of any approved conveyor belt must maintain flame-resistant properties of the belt.
[73 FR 80616, Dec. 31, 2008]
§ 75.1732
Proximity detection systems.
Operators must install proximity detection systems on certain mobile machines.
(a)
Machines covered.
Operators must equip continuous mining machines, except full-face continuous mining machines, with proximity detection systems by the following dates. For proximity detection systems with miner-wearable components, the mine operator must provide a miner-wearable component to be worn by each miner on the working section by the following dates.
(1) Continuous mining machines manufactured after March 16, 2015 must meet the requirements in this section no later than November 16, 2015. These machines must meet the requirements in this section when placed in service with a proximity detection system.
(2) Continuous mining machines manufactured and equipped with a proximity detection system on or before March 16, 2015 must meet the requirements in this section no later than September 16, 2016.
(3) Continuous mining machines manufactured and not equipped with a proximity detection system on or before March 16, 2015 must meet the requirements in this section no later than March 16, 2018. These machines must meet the requirements in this section when placed in service with a proximity detection system.
(b)
Requirements for a proximity detection system.
A proximity detection system includes machine-mounted components and miner-wearable components. The system must:
(1) Cause a machine, which is tramming from place-to-place or repositioning, to stop before contacting a miner except for a miner who is in the on-board operator's compartment;
(2) Provide an audible and visual warning signal on the miner-wearable component and a visual warning signal on the machine that alert miners before the system causes a machine to stop. These warning signals must be distinguishable from other signals;
(3) Provide a visual signal on the machine that indicates the machine-mounted components are functioning properly;
(4) Prevent movement of the machine if any machine-mounted component of the system is not functioning properly. However, a system with any machine-mounted component that is not functioning properly may allow machine movement if it provides an audible or visual warning signal, distinguishable from other signals, during movement. Such movement is permitted only for purposes of relocating the machine from an unsafe location for repair;
(5) Be installed to prevent interference that adversely affects performance of any electrical system; and
(6) Be installed and maintained in proper operating condition by a person trained in the installation and maintenance of the system.
(c)
Proximity detection system checks.
Operators must:
(1) Designate a person who must perform a check of machine-mounted components of the proximity detection system to verify that components are intact, that the system is functioning properly, and take action to correct defects—
(i) At the beginning of each shift when the machine is to be used; or
(ii) Immediately prior to the time the machine is to be operated if not in use at the beginning of a shift; or
(iii) Within 1 hour of a shift change if the shift change occurs without an interruption in production.
(2) Check for proper operation of miner-wearable components at the beginning of each shift that the components are to be used and correct defects before the components are used.
(d)
Certifications and records.
The operator must make and retain certifications and records as follows:
(1) At the completion of the check of machine-mounted components required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a certified person under § 75.100 must certify by initials, date, and time that the check was conducted. Defects found as a result of the check, including corrective actions and dates of corrective actions, must be recorded before the end of the shift;
(2) Make a record of the defects found as a result of the check of miner-wearable components required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, including corrective actions and dates of corrective actions;
(3) Make a record of the persons trained in the installation and maintenance of proximity detection systems required under paragraph (b)(6) of this section;
(4) Maintain records in a secure book or electronically in a secure computer system not susceptible to alteration; and
(5) Retain records for at least one year and make them available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and representatives of miners.
[80 FR 2202, Jan. 15, 2015]
Subpart S [Reserved]

# Subpart T—Diesel-Powered Equipment

# Source:
61 FR 55527, Oct. 25, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 75.1900
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this subpart.
Diesel fuel tank.
A closed metal vessel specifically designed for the storage or transport of diesel fuel.
Diesel fuel transportation unit.
A self-propelled or portable wheeled vehicle used to transport a diesel fuel tank.
Noncombustible material.
A material that will continue to serve its intended function for 1 hour when subjected to a fire test incorporating an ASTM E119-88 time/temperature heat input, or equivalent. The publication ASTM E119-88 “Standard Test Methods for Fire Tests of Building Construction and Materials” is incorporated by reference and may be inspected at any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office; at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. In addition, copies of the document may be purchased from the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA, 19428-2959; 610-832-9500;
http://www.astm.org.
Permanent underground diesel fuel storage facility.
A facility designed and constructed to remain at one location for the storage or dispensing of diesel fuel, which does not move as mining progresses.
Safety can.
A metal container intended for storage, transport or dispensing of diesel fuel, with a nominal capacity of 5 gallons, listed or approved by a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory.
Temporary underground diesel fuel storage area.
An area of the mine provided for the short-term storage of diesel fuel in a fuel transportation unit, which moves as mining progresses.
[35 FR 17890, Nov. 20, 1970, as amended at 67 FR 38386, June 4, 2002; 71 FR 16669, Apr. 3, 2006; 80 FR 52992, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 75.1901
Diesel fuel requirements.
(a) Diesel-powered equipment shall be used underground only with a diesel fuel having a sulfur content no greater than 0.05 percent and a flash point of 100 °F (38 °C) or greater. Upon request, the mine operator shall provide to an authorized representative of the Secretary evidence that the diesel fuel purchased for use in diesel-powered equipment underground meets these requirements.
(b) Flammable liquids shall not be added to diesel fuel used in diesel-powered equipment underground.
(c) Only diesel fuel additives that have been registered by the Environmental Protection Agency may be used in diesel-powered equipment underground.
§ 75.1902
Underground diesel fuel storage—general requirements.
(a) All diesel fuel must be stored in:
(1) Diesel fuel tanks in permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities;
(2) Diesel fuel tanks on diesel fuel transportation units in permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities or in temporary underground fuel storage areas; or
(3) Safety cans.
(b) The total capacity of stationary diesel fuel tanks in permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities must not exceed 1000 gallons.
(c)(1) Only one temporary underground diesel fuel storage area is permitted for each working section or in each area of the mine where equipment is being installed or removed.
(2) The temporary underground diesel fuel storage area must be located—
(i) Within 500 feet of the loading point;
(ii) Within 500 feet of the projected loading point where equipment is being installed; or
(iii) Within 500 feet of the last loading point where equipment is being removed.
(3) No more than one diesel fuel transportation unit at a time shall be parked in the temporary underground diesel fuel storage area.
(d) Permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities and temporary underground diesel fuel storage areas must be—
(1) At least 100 feet from shafts, slopes, shops, or explosives magazines;
(2) At least 25 feet from trolley wires or power cables, or electric equipment not necessary for the operation of the storage facilities or areas; and
(3) In a location that is protected from damage by other mobile equipment.
(e) Permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities must not be located within the primary escapeway.
§ 75.1903
Underground diesel fuel storage facilities and areas; construction and safety precautions.
(a) Permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities must be—
(1) Constructed of noncombustible materials, including floors, roofs, roof supports, doors, and door frames. Exposed coal within fuel storage areas must be covered with noncombustible materials. If bulkheads are used they must be tightly sealed and must be built of or covered with noncombustible materials;
(2) Provided with either self-closing doors or a means for automatic enclosure;
(3) Provided with a means for personnel to enter and exit the facility after closure;
(4) Ventilated with intake air that is coursed into a return air course or to the surface and that is not used to ventilate working places, using ventilation controls meeting the requirements of § 75.333(e);
(5) Equipped with an automatic fire suppression system that meets the requirements of § 75.1912. Actuation of the automatic fire suppression system shall initiate the means for automatic enclosure;
(6) Provided with a means of containment capable of holding 150 percent of the maximum capacity of the fuel storage system; and
(7) Provided with a competent concrete floor or equivalent to prevent fuel spills from saturating the mine floor.
(b) Permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities and temporary underground diesel fuel storage areas must be—
(1) Equipped with at least 240 pounds of rock dust and provided with two portable multipurpose dry chemical type (ABC) fire extinguishers that are listed or approved by a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory and have a 10A:60B:C or higher rating. Both fire extinguishers must be easily accessible to personnel, and at least one fire extinguisher must be located
outside of the storage facility or area upwind of the facility, in intake air; or
(2) Provided with three portable multipurpose dry chemical type (ABC) fire extinguishers that are listed or approved by a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory and have a 10A:60B:C or higher rating. All fire extinguishers must be easily accessible to personnel, and at least one fire extinguisher must be located outside of the storage facility or area upwind of the facility, in intake air.
(3) Identified with conspicuous markings designating diesel fuel storage; and
(4) Maintained to prevent the accumulation of water.
(c) Welding or cutting other than that performed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section shall not be performed within 50 feet of a permanent underground diesel fuel storage facility or a temporary underground diesel fuel storage area.
(d) When it is necessary to weld, cut, or solder pipelines, tanks, or other containers that may have contained diesel fuel, these practices shall be followed:
(1) Cutting or welding shall not be performed on or within pipelines, tanks, or other containers that have contained diesel fuel until they have been thoroughly purged and cleaned or inerted and a vent or opening is provided to allow for sufficient release of any buildup pressure before heat is applied.
(2) Diesel fuel shall not be allowed to enter pipelines, tanks, or containers that have been welded, soldered, brazed, or cut until the metal has cooled to ambient temperature.
§ 75.1904
Underground diesel fuel tanks and safety cans.
(a) Diesel fuel tanks used underground shall—
(1) Have steel walls of a minimum
3/16
-inch thickness, or walls made of other metal of a thickness that provides equivalent strength;
(2) Be protected from corrosion;
(3) Be of seamless construction or have liquid tight welded seams;
(4) Not leak; and
(5) For stationary tanks in permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities, be placed on supports constructed of noncombustible material so that the tanks are at least 12 inches above the floor.
(b) Underground diesel fuel tanks must be provided with—
(1) Devices for emergency venting designed to open at a pressure not to exceed 2.5 psi according to the following—
(i) Tanks with a capacity greater than 500 gallons must have an emergency venting device whose area is equivalent to a pipe with a nominal inside diameter of 5 inches or greater; and
(ii) Tanks with a capacity of 500 gallons or less must have an emergency venting device whose area is equivalent to a pipe with a nominal inside diameter of 4 inches or greater.
(2) Tethered or self-closing caps for stationary tanks in permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities and self-closing caps for diesel fuel tanks on diesel fuel transportation units;
(3) Vents to permit the free discharge of liquid, at least as large as the fill or withdrawal connection, whichever is larger, but not less than 1
1/4
inch nominal inside diameter;
(4) Liquid tight connections for all tank openings that are—
(i) Identified by conspicuous markings that specify the function; and
(ii) Closed when not in use.
(5) Vent pipes that drain toward the tank without sagging and are higher than the fill pipe opening;
(6) Shutoff valves located as close as practicable to the tank shell on each connection through which liquid can normally flow; and
(7) An automatic closing, heat-actuated valve on each withdrawal connection below the liquid level.
(c) When tanks are provided with openings for manual gauging, liquid tight, tethered or self-closing caps or covers must be provided and must be kept closed when not open for gauging.
(d) Surfaces of the tank and its associated components must be protected against damage by collision.
(e) Before being placed in service, tanks and their associated components must be tested for leakage at a pressure equal to the working pressure, except tanks and components connected directly to piping systems, which must
be properly designed for the application.
(f) Safety cans must be:
(1) Limited to a nominal capacity of 5 gallons or less;
(2) Equipped with a flexible or rigid tubular nozzle attached to a valved spout;
(3) Provided with a vent valve designed to open and close simultaneously and automatically with the opening and closing of the pouring valve; and
(4) Designed so that they will safely relieve internal pressure when exposed to fire.
§ 75.1905
Dispensing of diesel fuel.
(a) Diesel-powered equipment in underground coal mines may be refueled only from safety cans, from tanks on diesel fuel transportation units, or from stationary tanks.
(b) Fuel that is dispensed from other than safety cans must be dispensed by means of—
(1) Gravity feed with a hose equipped with a nozzle with a self-closing valve and no latch-open device;
(2) A manual pump with a hose equipped with a nozzle containing a self-closing valve; or
(3) A powered pump with:
(i) An accessible emergency shutoff switch for each nozzle;
(ii) A hose equipped with a self-closing valve and no latch-open device; and
(iii) An anti-siphoning device.
(c) Diesel fuel must not be dispensed using compressed gas.
(d) Diesel fuel must not be dispensed to the fuel tank of diesel-powered equipment while the equipment engine is running.
(e) Powered pumps shall be shut off when fuel is not being dispensed.
§ 75.1905-1
Diesel fuel piping systems.
(a) Diesel fuel piping systems from the surface must be designed and operated as dry systems, unless an automatic shutdown is incorporated that prevents accidental loss or spillage of fuel and that activates an alarm system.
(b) All piping, valves and fittings must be—
(1) Capable of withstanding working pressures and stresses;
(2) Capable of withstanding four times the static pressures;
(3) Compatible with diesel fuel; and
(4) Maintained in a manner that prevents leakage.
(c) Pipelines must have manual shutoff valves installed at the surface filling point, and at the underground discharge point.
(d) If diesel fuel lines are not buried in the ground sufficiently to protect them from damage, shutoff valves must be located every 300 feet.
(e) Shutoff valves must be installed at each branch line where the branch line joins the main line.
(f) An automatic means must be provided to prevent unintentional transfer of diesel fuel from the surface into the permanent underground diesel fuel storage facility.
(g) Diesel fuel piping systems from the surface shall only be used to transport diesel fuel directly to stationary tanks or diesel fuel transportation units in a permanent underground diesel fuel storage facility.
(h) The diesel fuel piping system must not be located in a borehole with electric power cables.
(i) Diesel fuel piping systems located in entries must not be located on the same side of the entry as electric cables or power lines. Where it is necessary for piping systems to cross electric cables or power lines, guarding must be provided to prevent severed electrical cables or power lines near broken fuel lines.
(j) Diesel fuel piping systems must be protected and located to prevent physical damage.
§ 75.1906
Transport of diesel fuel.
(a) Diesel fuel shall be transported only by diesel fuel transportation units or in safety cans.
(b) No more than one safety can shall be transported on a vehicle at any time. The can must be protected from damage during transport. All other safety cans must be stored in permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities.
(c) Safety cans that leak must be promptly removed from the mine.
(d) Diesel fuel transportation unit tanks and safety cans must be conspicuously marked as containing diesel fuel.
(e) Diesel fuel transportation units must transport no more than 500 gallons of diesel fuel at a time.
(f) Tanks on diesel fuel transportation units must be permanently fixed to the unit and have a total capacity of no greater than 500 gallons of diesel fuel.
(g) Non-self-propelled diesel fuel transportation units with electrical components for dispensing fuel that are connected to a source of electrical power must be protected by a fire suppression device that meets the requirements of §§ 75.1107-3 through 75.1107-6, and §§ 75.1107-8 through 75.1107-16.
(h) Diesel fuel transportation units and vehicles transporting safety cans containing diesel fuel must have at least two multipurpose, dry chemical type (ABC) fire extinguishers, listed or approved by a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory and having a 10A:60B:C or higher rating, with one fire extinguisher provided on each side of the vehicle.
(i) Diesel fuel transportation units shall be parked only in permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities or temporary underground diesel fuel storage areas when not in use.
(j) When the distance between a diesel fuel transportation unit and an energized trolley wire at any location is less than 12 inches, the requirements of § 75.1003-2 must be followed.
(k) Diesel fuel shall not be transported on or with mantrips or on conveyor belts.
(l) Diesel fuel shall be stored and handled in accordance with the requirements of §§ 75.1902 through 75.1906 of this part as of November 25, 1997.
[61 FR 55527, Oct. 25, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 12647, Mar. 16, 1998]
§ 75.1907
Diesel-powered equipment intended for use in underground coal mines.
(a) As of November 25, 1996 all diesel-powered equipment used where permissible electrical equipment is required must be approved under part 36 of this chapter.
(b) Diesel-powered equipment approved under part 36 of this chapter must be provided with additional safety features in accordance with the following time schedule:
(1) As of April 25, 1997 the equipment must have a safety component system that limits surface temperatures to those specified in subpart F of part 7 of this title;
(2) As of November 25, 1999 the equipment must have an automatic or manual fire suppression system that meets the requirements of § 75.1911 of this part, and at least one portable multipurpose dry chemical type (ABC) fire extinguisher, listed or approved by a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory and having a 10A:60B:C or higher rating. The fire extinguisher must be located within easy reach of the equipment operator and be protected from damage by collision.
(3) As of November 25, 1999 the equipment must have a brake system that meets the requirements of § 75.1909 (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8), (c), (d), and (e);
(4) As of November 25, 1997 a particulate index and dilution air quantity shall be determined for the equipment in accordance with subpart E of part 7 of this chapter; and
(5) Permissible diesel-powered equipment manufactured on or after November 25, 1999 and that is used in an underground coal mine shall incorporate a power package approved in accordance with part 7, subpart F of this chapter.
(c) As of November 25, 1999 nonpermissible diesel-powered equipment, except the special category of equipment under § 75.1908(d), shall meet the requirements of §§ 75.1909 and 75.1910 of this part.
§ 75.1908
Nonpermissible diesel-powered equipment; categories.
(a) Heavy-duty diesel-powered equipment includes—
(1) Equipment that cuts or moves rock or coal;
(2) Equipment that performs drilling or bolting functions;
(3) Equipment that moves longwall components;
(4) Self-propelled diesel fuel transportation units and self-propelled lube units; or
(5) Machines used to transport portable diesel fuel transportation units or portable lube units.
(b) Light-duty diesel-powered equipment is any diesel-powered equipment that does not meet the criteria of paragraph (a).
(c) For the purposes of this subpart, the following equipment is considered attended:
(1) Any machine or device operated by a miner; or
(2) Any machine or device that is mounted in the direct line of sight of a job site located within 500 feet of such machine or device, which job site is occupied by a miner.
(d) Diesel-powered ambulances and fire fighting equipment are a special category of equipment that may be used underground only in accordance with the mine fire fighting and evacuation plan under § 75.1502.
[61 FR 55527, Oct. 25, 1996; 70 FR 36347, June 23, 2005]
§ 75.1909
Nonpermissible diesel-powered equipment; design and performance requirements.
(a) Nonpermissible diesel-powered equipment, except for the special category of equipment under § 75.1908(d), must be equipped with the following features:
(1) An engine approved under subpart E of part 7 of this title equipped with an air filter sized in accordance with the engine manufacturer's recommendations, and an air filter service indicator set in accordance with the engine manufacturer's recommendations;
(2) At least one portable multipurpose dry chemical type (ABC) fire extinguisher listed or approved by a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory with a 10A:60B:C or higher rating. The fire extinguisher must be located within easy reach of the equipment operator and protected from damage;
(3) A fuel system specifically designed for diesel fuel meeting the following requirements:
(i) A fuel tank and fuel lines that do not leak;
(ii) A fuel tank that is substantially constructed and protected against damage by collision;
(iii) A vent opening that maintains atmospheric pressure in the fuel tank, and that is designed to prevent fuel from splashing out of the vent opening;
(iv) A self-closing filler cap on the fuel tank;
(v) The fuel tank, filler and vent must be located so that leaks or spillage during refueling will not contact hot surfaces;
(vi) Fuel line piping must be either steel-wire reinforced; synthetic elastomer-covered hose suitable for use with diesel fuel that has been tested and has been determined to be fire-resistant by the manufacturer; or metal;
(vii) Fuel line piping must be clamped;
(viii) Primary fuel lines must be located so that fuel line leaks do not contact hot surfaces;
(ix) The fuel lines must be separated from electrical wiring and protected from damage in ordinary use;
(x) A manual shutoff valve must be installed in the fuel system as close as practicable to the tank; and
(xi) A water separator and fuel filter(s) must be provided.
(4) A sensor to monitor the temperature and provide a visual warning of an overheated cylinder head on air-cooled engines;
(5) Guarding to protect fuel, hydraulic, and electric lines when such lines pass near rotating parts or in the event of shaft failure;
(6) Hydraulic tanks, fillers, vents, and lines located to prevent spillage or leaks from contacting hot surfaces;
(7) Reflectors or warning lights mounted on the equipment which can be readily seen in all directions;
(8) A means to direct exhaust gas away from the equipment operator, persons on board the machine, and combustible machine components;
(9) A means to prevent unintentional free and uncontrolled descent of personnel-elevating work platforms; and
(10) A means to prevent the spray from ruptured hydraulic or lubricating oil lines from being ignited by contact with engine exhaust system component surfaces.
(b) Self-propelled nonpermissible diesel-powered equipment must have the following features in addition to those in paragraph (a):
(1) A means to ensure that no stored hydraulic energy that will cause machine articulation is available after the engine is shut down;
(2) A neutral start feature which ensures that engine cranking torque will not be transmitted through the powertrain and cause machine movement on vehicles utilizing fluid power transmissions;
(3) For machines with steering wheels, brake pedals, and accelerator pedals, controls which are of automobile orientation;
(4) An audible warning device conveniently located near the equipment operator;
(5) Lights provided and maintained on both ends of the equipment. Equipment normally operated in both directions must be equipped with headlights for both directions;
(6) Service brakes that act on each wheel of the vehicle and that are designed such that failure of any single component, except the brake actuation pedal or other similar actuation device, must not result in a complete loss of service braking capability;
(7) Service brakes that safely bring the fully loaded vehicle to a complete stop on the maximum grade on which it is operated; and
(8) No device that traps a column of fluid to hold the brake in the applied position shall be installed in any brake system, unless the trapped column of fluid is released when the equipment operator is no longer in contact with the brake activation device.
(c) Self-propelled nonpermissible heavy-duty diesel-powered equipment under § 75.1908(a), except rail-mounted equipment, shall be provided with a supplemental braking system that:
(1) Engages automatically within 5 seconds of the shutdown of the engine;
(2) Safely brings the equipment when fully loaded to a complete stop on the maximum grade on which it is operated;
(3) Holds the equipment stationary, despite any contraction of brake parts, exhaustion of any nonmechanical source of energy, or leakage;
(4) Releases only by a manual control that does not operate any other equipment function;
(5) Has a means in the equipment operator's compartment to apply the brakes manually without shutting down the engine, and a means to release and reengage the brakes without the engine operating; and
(6) Has a means to ensure that the supplemental braking system is released before the equipment can be trammed, and is designed to ensure the brake is fully released at all times while the equipment is trammed.
(d) Self-propelled nonpermissible light-duty diesel-powered equipment under § 75.1908(b), except rail-mounted equipment, must be provided with a parking brake that holds the fully loaded equipment stationary on the maximum grade on which it is operated despite any contraction of the brake parts, exhaustion of any nonmechanical source of energy, or leakage.
(e) The supplemental and park brake systems required by paragraphs (c) and (d) must be applied when the equipment operator is not at the controls of the equipment, except during movement of disabled equipment.
(f) Self-propelled personnel-elevating work platforms must be provided with a means to ensure that the parking braking system is released before the equipment can be trammed, and must be designed to ensure the brake is fully released at all times while the equipment is trammed.
(g) Any nonpermissible equipment that discharges its exhaust directly into a return air course must be provided with a power package approved under subpart F of part 7 of this title.
(h) Self-propelled nonpermissible heavy-duty diesel-powered equipment meeting the requirements of § 75.1908(a) must be provided with an automatic fire suppression system meeting the requirements of § 75.1911.
(i) Self-propelled nonpermissible light-duty diesel-powered equipment meeting the requirements of § 75.1908(b) must be provided with an automatic or manual fire suppression system meeting the requirements of § 75.1911.
(j) Nonpermissible equipment that is not self-propelled must have the following features in addition to those listed in paragraph (a):
(1) A means to prevent inadvertent movement of the equipment when parked;
(2) Safety chains or other suitable secondary connections on equipment that is being towed; and
(3) An automatic fire suppression system meeting the requirements of § 75.1911.
[61 FR 55527, Oct. 25, 1996; 62 FR 34641, June 27, 1997]
§ 75.1910
Nonpermissible diesel-powered equipment; electrical system design and performance requirements.
Electrical circuits and components associated with or connected to electrical systems on nonpermissible diesel-powered equipment utilizing storage batteries and integral charging systems, except for the special category of equipment under § 75.1908(d), must conform to the following requirements:
(a) Overload and short circuit protection must be provided for electric circuits and components in accordance with §§ 75.518 and 75.518-1 of this part;
(b) Each electric conductor from the battery to the starting motor must be protected against short circuit by fuses or other circuit-interrupting devices placed as near as practicable to the battery terminals;
(c) Each branch circuit conductor connected to the main circuit between the battery and charging generator must be protected against short circuit by fuses or other automatic circuit-interrupting devices;
(d) The electrical system shall be equipped with a circuit-interrupting device by means of which all power conductors can be deenergized. The device must be located as close as practicable to the battery terminals and be designed to operate within its electrical rating without damage. The device shall not automatically reset after being actuated. All magnetic circuit-interrupting devices must be mounted in a manner to preclude their closing by force of gravity;
(e) Each motor and charging generator must be protected by an automatic overcurrent device. One protective device will be acceptable when two motors of the same rating operate simultaneously and perform virtually the same duty;
(f) Each ungrounded conductor must have insulation compatible with the impressed voltage. Insulation materials must be resistant to deterioration from engine heat and oil. Electric conductors must meet the applicable requirements of §§ 75.513 and 75.513-1, except electric conductors for starting motors, which must only meet the requirements of § 75.513;
(g) All wiring must have adequate mechanical protection to prevent damage to the cable that might result in short circuits;
(h) Sharp edges and corners must be removed at all points where there is a possibility of damaging wires, cables, or conduits by cutting or abrasion. The insulation of the cables within a battery box must be protected against abrasion;
(i) When insulated wires other than cables pass through metal frames, the holes must be substantially bushed with insulated bushings. Cables must enter metal frames of motors, splice boxes, and electric components only through proper fittings. All electrical connections and splices must be mechanically and electrically efficient, and suitable connectors shall be used. All electrical connectors or splices in insulated wire must be reinsulated at least to the same degree of protection as the remainder of the wire;
(j) The battery must be secured to prevent movement, and must be protected from external damage by position. Batteries that are not protected from external damage by position must be enclosed in a battery box. Flame-resistant insulation treated to resist chemical reaction to electrolyte must be provided on battery connections to prevent battery terminals from contacting conducting surfaces;
(k) A battery box, including the cover, must be constructed of steel with a minimum thickness of
1/8
inch, or of a material other than steel that provides equivalent strength;
(l) Battery-box covers must be lined with a flame-resistant insulating material permanently attached to the underside of the cover, unless equivalent protection is provided. Battery-box covers must be provided with a means
for securing them in closed position. At least
1/2
inch of air space must be provided between the underside of the cover and the top of the battery, including terminals;
(m) Battery boxes must be provided with ventilation openings to prevent the accumulation of flammable or toxic gases or vapors within the battery box. The size and locations of openings for ventilation must prevent direct access to battery terminals;
(n) The battery must be insulated from the battery-box walls and supported on insulating materials. Insulating materials that may be subject to chemical reaction with electrolyte must be treated to resist such action; and
(o) Drainage holes must be provided in the bottom of each battery box.
§ 75.1911
Fire suppression systems for diesel-powered equipment and fuel transportation units.
(a) The fire suppression system required by §§ 75.1907 and 75.1909 shall be a multipurpose dry chemical type (ABC) fire suppression system listed or approved by a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory and appropriate for installation on diesel-powered equipment and fuel transportation units.
(1) The system shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications and the limitations of the listing or approval.
(2) The system shall be installed in a protected location or guarded to minimize physical damage from routine vehicle operations.
(3) Suppressant agent distribution tubing or piping shall be secured and protected against damage, including pinching, crimping, stretching, abrasion, and corrosion.
(4) Discharge nozzles shall be positioned and aimed for maximum fire suppression effectiveness. Nozzles shall also be protected against the entrance of foreign materials such as mud, coal dust, or rock dust.
(b) The fire suppression system shall provide fire suppression and, if automatic, fire detection for the engine including the starter, transmission, hydraulic pumps and tanks, fuel tanks, exposed brake units, air compressors and battery areas on diesel-powered equipment and electric panels or controls used on fuel transportation units and other areas as necessary.
(c) If automatic, the fire suppression system shall include audible and visual alarms to warn of fires or system faults.
(d) The fire suppression system shall provide for automatic engine shutdown. If the fire suppression system is automatic, engine shutdown and discharge of suppressant agent may be delayed for a maximum of 15 seconds after the fire is detected by the system.
(e) The fire suppression system shall be operable by at least two manual actuators. One actuator shall be located on each side of the equipment. If the equipment is provided with an operator's compartment, one of the manual actuators shall be located in the compartment within reach of the operator.
(f) The fire suppression system shall remain operative in the event of engine shutdown, equipment electrical system failure, or failure of any other equipment system.
(g) The electrical components of each fire suppression system installed on equipment used where permissible electric equipment is required shall be permissible or intrinsically safe and such components shall be maintained in permissible or intrinsically safe condition.
(h) Electrically operated detection and actuation circuits shall be monitored and provided with status indicators showing power and circuit continuity. If the system is not electrically operated, a means shall be provided to indicate the functional readiness status of the detection system.
(i) Each fire suppression system shall be tested and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's recommended inspection and maintenance program and as required by the nationally recognized independent testing laboratory listing or approval, and be visually inspected at least once each week by a person trained to make such inspections.
(j)
Recordkeeping.
Persons performing inspections and tests of fire suppression systems under paragraph (i) shall record when a fire suppression system does not meet the installation or maintenance requirements of this section.
(1) The record shall include the equipment on which the fire suppression system did not meet the installation or maintenance requirements of this section, the defect found, and the corrective action taken.
(2) Records are to be kept manually in a secure manner not susceptible to alteration or recorded electronically in a secured computer system that is not susceptible to alteration.
(3) Records shall be maintained at a surface location at the mine for one year and made available for inspection by an authorized representative of the Secretary and miners' representatives.
(k) All miners normally assigned to the active workings of the mine shall be instructed about the hazards inherent to the operation of the fire suppression systems and, where appropriate, the safeguards available for each system.
(l) For purposes of § 75.380(f), a fire suppression system installed on diesel-powered equipment and meeting the requirements of this section is equivalent to a fire suppression system meeting the requirements of §§ 75.1107-3 through 75.1107-16.
§ 75.1912
Fire suppression systems for permanent underground diesel fuel storage facilities.
(a) The fire suppression system required by § 75.1903 shall be an automatic multipurpose dry chemical type (ABC) fire suppression system listed or approved as an engineered dry chemical extinguishing system by a nationally recognized independent testing laboratory and appropriate for installation at a permanent underground diesel fuel storage facility.
(1) Alternate types of fire suppression systems shall be approved in accordance with § 75.1107-13 of this part.
(2) The system shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications and the limitations of the listing or approval.
(3) The system shall be installed in a protected location or guarded to prevent physical damage from routine operations.
(4) Suppressant agent distribution tubing or piping shall be secured and protected against damage, including pinching, crimping, stretching, abrasion, and corrosion.
(5) Discharge nozzles shall be positioned and aimed for maximum fire suppression effectiveness in the protected areas. Nozzles must also be protected against the entrance of foreign materials such as mud, coal dust, and rock dust.
(b) The fire suppression system shall provide automatic fire detection and automatic fire suppression for all areas within the facility.
(c) Audible and visual alarms to warn of fire or system faults shall be provided at the protected area and at a surface location which is continually monitored by a person when personnel are underground. In the event of a fire, personnel shall be warned in accordance with the provisions set forth in § 75.1502.
(d) The fire suppression system shall deenergize all power to the diesel fuel storage facility when actuated except that required for automatic enclosure and alarms.
(e) Fire suppression systems shall include two manual actuators located as follows:
(1) At least one within the fuel storage facility; and
(2) At least one a safe distance away from the storage facility and located in intake air, upwind of the storage facility.
(f) The fire suppression system shall remain operational in the event of electrical system failure.
(g) Electrically operated detection and actuation circuits shall be monitored and provided with status indicators showing power and circuit continuity. If the system is not electrically operated, a means shall be provided to indicate the functional readiness status of the detection system.
(h) Each fire suppression system shall be tested and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's recommended inspection and maintenance program and as required by the nationally recognized independent testing laboratory listing or approval, and be visually inspected at least once each week by a person trained to make such inspections.
(i)
Recordkeeping.
Persons performing inspections and tests of fire suppression systems under paragraph (h) shall record when a fire suppression system does not meet the installation or maintenance requirements of this section.
(1) The record shall include the facility whose fire suppression system did not meet the installation or maintenance requirements of this section, the defect found, and the corrective action taken.
(2) Records are to be kept manually in a secure manner not susceptible to alteration or recorded electronically in a secured computer system that is not susceptible to alteration.
(3) Records shall be maintained at a surface location at the mine for one year and made available for inspection by an authorized representative of the Secretary and miners' representatives.
(j) All miners normally assigned to the active workings of the mine shall be instructed about the hazards inherent to the operation of the fire suppression systems and, where appropriate, the safeguards available for each system.
[61 FR 55527, Oct. 25, 1996; 70 FR 36347, June 23, 2005]
§ 75.1913
Starting aids.
(a) Volatile fuel starting aids shall be used in accordance with recommendations provided by the starting aid manufacturer, the engine manufacturer, and the machine manufacturer.
(b) Containers of volatile fuel starting aids shall be conspicuously marked to indicate the contents. When not in use, containers of volatile fuel starting aids shall be stored in metal enclosures that are used only for storage of starting aids. Such metal enclosures must be conspicuously marked, secured, and protected from damage.
(c) Volatile fuel starting aids shall not be:
(1) Taken into or used in areas where permissible equipment is required;
(2) Used in the presence of open flames or burning flame safety lamps, or when welding or cutting is taking place; or
(3) Used in any area where 1.0 percent or greater concentration of methane is present.
(d) Compressed oxygen or compressed flammable gases shall not be connected to diesel air-start systems.
§ 75.1914
Maintenance of diesel-powered equipment.
(a) Diesel-powered equipment shall be maintained in approved and safe condition or removed from service.
(b) Maintenance and repairs of approved features and those features required by §§ 75.1909 and 75.1910 on diesel-powered equipment shall be made only by a person qualified under § 75.1915.
(c) The water scrubber system on diesel-powered equipment shall be drained and flushed, by a person who is trained to perform this task, at least once on each shift in which the equipment is operated.
(d) The intake air filter on diesel-powered equipment shall be replaced or serviced, by a person who is trained to perform this task, when the intake air pressure drop device so indicates or when the engine manufacturer's maximum allowable air pressure drop level is exceeded.
(e) Mobile diesel-powered equipment that is to be used during a shift shall be visually examined by the equipment operator before being placed in operation. Equipment defects affecting safety shall be reported promptly to the mine operator.
(f) All diesel-powered equipment shall be examined and tested weekly by a person qualified under § 75.1915.
(1) Examinations and tests shall be conducted in accordance with approved checklists and manufacturers' maintenance manuals.
(2) Persons performing weekly examinations and tests of diesel-powered equipment under this paragraph shall make a record when the equipment is not in approved or safe condition. The record shall include the equipment that is not in approved or safe condition, the defect found, and the corrective action taken.
(g) Undiluted exhaust emissions of diesel engines in diesel-powered equipment approved under part 36 and heavy-duty nonpermissible diesel-powered equipment as defined in § 75.1908(a) in use in underground coal mines shall be tested and evaluated weekly by a person who is trained to perform this
task. The mine operator shall develop and implement written standard operating procedures for such testing and evaluation that specify the following:
(1) The method of achieving a repeatable loaded engine operating condition for each type of equipment;
(2) Sampling and analytical methods (including calibration of instrumentation) that are capable of accurately detecting carbon monoxide in the expected concentrations;
(3) The method of evaluation and interpretation of the results;
(4) The concentration or changes in concentration of carbon monoxide that will indicate a change in engine performance. Carbon monoxide concentration shall not exceed 2500 parts per million; and
(5) The maintenance of records necessary to track engine performance.
(h)
Recordkeeping.
Records required by paragraphs (f)(2) and (g)(5) shall be—
(1) Recorded in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration, or recorded electronically in a computer system that is secure and not susceptible to alteration; and
(2) Retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and made available for inspection by an authorized representative of the Secretary and by miners' representatives.
(i) Diesel-powered equipment must be maintained in accordance with this part as of November 25, 1997.
§ 75.1915
Training and qualification of persons working on diesel-powered equipment.
(a) To be qualified to perform maintenance, repairs, examinations and tests on diesel-powered equipment, as required by § 75.1914, a person must successfully complete a training and qualification program that meets the requirements of this section. A person qualified to perform these tasks shall be retrained as necessary to maintain the ability to perform all assigned diesel-powered equipment maintenance, repairs, examinations and tests.
(b) A training and qualification program under this section must:
(1) Be presented by a competent instructor;
(2) Be sufficient to prepare or update a person's ability to perform all assigned tasks with respect to diesel-powered equipment maintenance, repairs, examinations and tests;
(3) Address, at a minimum, the following:
(i) The requirements of subpart T of this part;
(ii) Use of appropriate power package or machine checklists to conduct tests to ensure that diesel-powered equipment is in approved and safe condition, with acceptable emission levels;
(iii) Proper maintenance of approved features and the correct use of the appropriate maintenance manuals, including machine adjustments, service, and assembly;
(iv) Diesel-powered equipment fire suppression system tests and maintenance;
(v) Fire and ignition sources and their control or elimination, including cleaning of the equipment;
(vi) Safe fueling procedures and maintenance of the fuel system of the equipment; and
(vii) Intake air system maintenance and tests.
(4) Include an examination that requires demonstration of the ability to perform all assigned tasks with respect to diesel-powered equipment maintenance, repairs, examinations and tests; and
(5) Be in writing. The written program shall include a description of the course content, materials, and teaching methods for initial training and retraining.
(c)
Recordkeeping.
The operator shall maintain a copy of the training and qualification program required by this section and a record of the names of all persons qualified under the program.
(1) The record of the names of qualified persons shall be made in a manner that is not susceptible to alteration, or recorded electronically in a computer system that is secure and not susceptible to alteration.
(2) The training and qualification program and record of qualified persons are to be kept at surface location of the mine and made available for inspection by an authorized representative of the Secretary and by miners' representatives.
§ 75.1916
Operation of diesel-powered equipment.
(a) Diesel-powered equipment shall be operated at a speed that is consistent with the type of equipment being operated, roadway conditions, grades, clearances, visibility, and other traffic.
(b) Operators of mobile diesel-powered equipment shall maintain full control of the equipment while it is in motion.
(c) Standardized traffic rules, including speed limits, signals and warning signs, shall be established at each mine and followed.
(d) Except as required in normal mining operations, mobile diesel-powered equipment shall not be idled.
(e) Diesel-powered equipment shall not be operated unattended.
Pt. 77

# PART 77—MANDATORY SAFETY STANDARDS, SURFACE COAL MINES AND SURFACE WORK AREAS OF UNDERGROUND COAL MINES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
77.1
Scope.
77.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Qualified and Certified Persons
77.100
Certified person.
77.101
Tests for methane and for oxygen deficiency; qualified person.
77.102
Tests for methane; oxygen deficiency; qualified person, additional requirement.
77.103
Electrical work; qualified person.
77.104
Repair of energized surface high voltage lines; qualified person.
77.105
Qualified hoistman; slope or shaft sinking operation; qualifications.
77.106
Records of certified and qualified persons.
77.107
Training programs.
77.107-1
Plans for training programs.

# Subpart C—Surface Installations
77.200
Surface installations; general.
77.201
Methane content in surface installations.
77.201-1
Tests for methane; qualified person; use of approved device.
77.201-2
Methane accumulations; change in ventilation.
77.202
Dust accumulations in surface installations.
77.203
Use of material or equipment overhead; safeguards.
77.204
Openings in surface installations; safeguards.
77.205
Travelways at surface installations.
77.206
Ladders; construction; installation and maintenance.
77.207
Illumination.
77.208
Storage of materials.
77.209
Surge and storage piles.
77.210
Hoisting of materials.
77.211
Draw-off tunnels; stockpiling and reclaiming operations; general.
77.211-1
Continuous methane monitoring device; installation and operation; automatic deenergization of electric equipment.
77.212
Draw-off tunnel ventilation fans; installation.
77.213
Draw-off tunnel escapeways.
77.214
Refuse piles; general.
77.215
Refuse piles, construction requirements.
77.215-1
Refuse piles; identification.
77.215-2
Refuse piles; reporting requirements.
77.215-3
Refuse piles; certification.
77.215-4
Refuse piles; abandonment.
77.216
Water, sediment, or slurry impoundments and impounding structures; general.
77.216-1
Water, sediment or slurry impoundments and impounding structures; identification.
77.216-2
Water, sediment, or slurry impoundments and impounding structures; minimum plan requirements; changes or modifications; certification.
77.216-3
Water, sediment, or slurry impoundments and impounding structures; inspection requirements; correction of hazards; program requirements.
77.216-4
Water, sediment or slurry impoundments and impounding structures; reporting requirements; certification.
77.216-5
Water, sediment or slurry impoundments and impounding structures; abandonment.
77.217
Definitions.

# Subpart D—Thermal Dryers
77.300
Thermal dryers; general.
77.301
Dryer heating units; operation.
77.302
Bypass stacks.
77.303
Hot gas inlet chamber dropout doors.
77.304
Explosion release vents.
77.305
Access to drying chambers, hot gas inlet chambers and ductwork; installation and maintenance.
77.306
Fire protection.
77.307
Thermal dryers; location and installation; general.
77.308
Structures housing other facilities; use of partitions.
77.309
Visual check of system equipment.
77.309-1
Control stations; location.
77.310
Control panels.
77.311
Alarm devices.
77.312
Fail safe monitoring systems.
77.313
Wet-coal feedbins; low-level indicators.
77.314
Automatic temperature control instruments.
77.315
Thermal dryers; examination and inspection.

# Subpart E—Safeguards for Mechanical Equipment
77.400
Mechanical equipment guards.
77.401
Stationary grinding machines; protective devices.
77.402
Hand-held power tools; safety devices.
77.403
Mobile equipment; falling object protective structures (FOPS).
77.403-1
Mobile equipment; rollover protective structures (ROPS).
77.403-2
Incorporation by reference.
77.404
Machinery and equipment; operation and maintenance.
77.405
Performing work from a raised position; safeguards.
77.406
Drive belts.
77.407
Power driven pulleys.
77.408
Welding operations.
77.409
Shovels, draglines, and tractors.
77.410
Mobile equipment; automatic warning devices.
77.411
Compressed air and boilers; general.
77.412
Compressed air systems.
77.413
Boilers.

# Subpart F—Electrical Equipment—General
77.500
Electric power circuits and electric equipment; deenergization.
77.501
Electric distribution circuits and equipment; repair.
77.501-1
Qualified person.
77.502
Electric equipment; examination, testing, and maintenance.
77.502-1
Qualified person.
77.502-2
Electric equipment; frequency of examination and testing.
77.503
Electric conductors; capacity and insulation.
77.503-1
Electric conductors.
77.504
Electrical connections or splices; suitability.
77.505
Cable fittings; suitability.
77.506
Electric equipment and circuits; overload and short-circuit protection.
77.506-1
Electric equipment and circuits; overload and short circuit protection; minimum requirements.
77.507
Electric equipment; switches.
77.508
Lightning arresters, ungrounded and exposed power conductors and telephone wires.
77.508-1
Lightning arresters; wires entering buildings.
77.509
Transformers; installation and guarding.
77.510
Resistors; location and guarding.
77.511
Danger signs at electrical installations.
77.512
Inspection and cover plates.
77.513
Insulating mats at power switches.
77.514
Switchboard; passageways and clearance.
77.515
Bare signal or control wires; voltage.
77.516
Electric wiring and equipment; installation and maintenance.

# Subpart G—Trailing Cables
77.600
Trailing cables; short-circuit protection; disconnecting devices.
77.601
Trailing cables or portable cables; temporary splices.
77.602
Permanent splicing of trailing cables.
77.603
Clamping of trailing cables to equipment.
77.604
Protection of trailing cables.
77.605
Breaking trailing cable and power cable connections.
77.606
Energized trailing cables; handling.
77.606-1
Rubber gloves; minimum requirements.

# Subpart H—Grounding
77.700
Grounding metallic sheaths, armors, and conduits enclosing power conductors.
77.700-1
Approved methods of grounding.
77.701
Grounding metallic frames, casings, and other enclosures of electric equipment.
77.701-1
Approved methods of grounding of equipment receiving power from ungrounded alternating current power systems.
77.701-2
Approved methods of grounding metallic frames, casings and other enclosures of electric equipment receiving power from a direct-current power system.
77.701-3
Grounding wires; capacity.
77.701-4
Use of grounding connectors.
77.702
Protection other than grounding.
77.703
Grounding frames of stationary high-voltage equipment receiving power from ungrounded delta systems.
77.703-1
Approved methods of grounding.
77.704
Work on high-voltage lines; deenergizing and grounding.
77.704-1
Work on high-voltage lines.
77.704-2
Repairs to energized high-voltage lines.
77.704-3
Work on energized high-voltage surface lines; reporting.
77.704-4
Simultaneous repairs.
77.704-5
Installation of protective equipment.
77.704-6
Protective clothing; use and inspection.
77.704-7
Protective equipment; inspection.
77.704-8
Protective equipment; testing and storage.
77.704-9
Operating disconnecting or cutout switches.
77.704-10
Tying into energized high-voltage surface circuits.
77.704-11
Use of grounded messenger wires; ungrounded systems.
77.705
Guy wires; grounding.

# Subpart I—Surface High-Voltage Distribution
77.800
High-voltage circuits; circuit breakers.
77.800-1
Testing, examination, and maintenance of circuit breakers; procedures.
77.800-2
Testing, examination, and maintenance of circuit breakers; record.
77.801
Grounding resistors.
77.801-1
Grounding resistors; continuous current rating.
77.802
Protection of high-voltage circuits; neutral grounding resistors; disconnecting devices.
77.803
Fail safe ground check circuits on high-voltage resistance grounded systems.
77.803-1
Fail safe ground check circuits; maximum voltage.
77.803-2
Ground check systems not employing pilot check wires; approval by the Secretary.
77.804
High-voltage trailing cables; minimum design requirements.
77.805
Cable couplers and connection boxes; minimum design requirements.
77.806
Connection of single-phase loads.
77.807
Installation of high-voltage transmission cables.
77.807-1
High-voltage powerlines; clearances above ground.
77.807-2
Booms and masts; minimum distance from high-voltage lines.
77.807-3
Movement of equipment; minimum distance from high-voltage lines.
77.808
Disconnecting devices.
77.809
Identification of circuit breakers and disconnecting switches.
77.810
High-voltage equipment; grounding.
77.811
Movement of portable substations and transformers.

# Subpart J—Low- and Medium-Voltage Alternating Current Circuits
77.900
Low- and medium-voltage circuits serving portable or mobile three-phase alternating current equipment; circuit breakers.
77.900-1
Testing, examination, and maintenance of circuit breakers; procedures.
77.900-2
Testing, examination, and maintenance of circuit breakers; record.
77.901
Protection of low- and medium-voltage three-phase circuits.
77.901-1
Grounding resistor; continuous current rating.
77.902
Low- and medium-voltage ground check monitor circuits.
77.902-1
Fail safe ground check circuits; maximum voltage.
77.902-2
Approved ground check systems not employing pilot check wires.
77.902-3
Attachment of ground conductors and ground check wires to equipment frames; use of separate connections.
77.903
Disconnecting devices.
77.904
Identification of circuit breakers.
77.905
Connection of single-phase loads.
77.906
Trailing cables supplying power to low-voltage mobile equipment; ground wires and ground check wires.

# Subpart K—Ground Control
77.1000
Highwalls, pits, and spoil banks; plans.
77.1000-1
Filing of plan.
77.1001
Stripping; loose material.
77.1002
Box cuts; spoil material placement.
77.1003
Benches.
77.1004
Ground control; inspection and maintenance; general.
77.1005
Scaling highwalls; general.
77.1006
Highwalls; men working.
77.1007
Drilling; general.
77.1008
Relocation of drills; safeguards.
77.1009
Drill; operation.
77.1010
Collaring holes.
77.1011
Drill holes; guarding.
77.1012
Jackhammers; operation; safeguards.
77.1013
Air drills; safeguards.

# Subpart L—Fire Protection
77.1100
Fire protection; training and organization.
77.1101
Escape and evacuation; plan.
77.1102
Warning signs; smoking and open flame.
77.1103
Flammable liquids; storage.
77.1104
Accumulations of combustible materials.
77.1105
Internal combustion engines; fueling.
77.1106
Battery-charging stations; ventilation.
77.1107
Belt conveyors.
77.1108
Firefighting equipment; requirements; general.
77.1108-1
Type and capacity of firefighting equipment.
77.1109
Quantity and location of firefighting equipment.
77.1110
Examination and maintenance of firefighting equipment.
77.1111
Welding, cutting, soldering; use of fire extinguisher.
77.1112
Welding, cutting, soldering with arc or flame; safeguards.

# Subpart M—Maps
77.1200
Mine map.
77.1201
Certification of mine maps.
77.1202
Availability of mine map.

# Subpart N—Explosives and Blasting
77.1300
Explosives and blasting.
77.1301
Explosives; magazines.
77.1302
Vehicles used to transport explosives.
77.1303
Explosives; handling and use.
77.1304
Blasting agents; special provisions.

# Subpart O—Personnel Hoisting
77.1400
Personnel hoists and elevators.
77.1401
Automatic controls and brakes.
77.1402
Rated capacity.
77.1402-1
Maximum load; posting.
77.1403
Daily examination of hoisting equipment.
77.1404
Certifications and records of daily examinations.
77.1405
Operation of hoisting equipment after repairs.

# Wire Ropes
77.1430
Wire ropes; scope.
77.1431
Minimum rope strength.
77.1432
Initial measurement.
77.1433
Examinations.
77.1434
Retirement criteria.
77.1435
Load end attachments.
77.1436
Drum end attachment.
77.1437
End attachment retermination.
77.1438
End attachment replacement.

# Subpart P—Auger Mining
77.1500
Auger mining; planning.
77.1501
Auger mining; inspections.
77.1502
Auger holes; restriction against entering.
77.1503
Augering equipment; overhead protection.
77.1504
Auger equipment; operation.
77.1505
Auger holes; blocking.

# Subpart Q—Loading and Haulage
77.1600
Loading and haulage; general.
77.1601
Transportation of persons; restrictions.
77.1602
Use of aerial tramways to transport persons.
77.1603
Trains and locomotives; authorized persons.
77.1604
Transportation of persons; overcrowding.
77.1605
Loading and haulage equipment; installations.
77.1606
Loading and haulage equipment; inspection and maintenance.
77.1607
Loading and haulage equipment; operation.
77.1608
Dumping facilities.

# Subpart R—Miscellaneous
77.1700
Communications in work areas.
77.1701
Emergency communications; requirements.
77.1702
Arrangements for emergency medical assistance and transportation for injured persons; reporting requirements; posting requirements.
77.1703
First-Aid training; supervisory employees.
77.1704
First aid training program; availability of instruction to all miners.
77.1705
First aid training program; retraining of supervisory employees; availability to all miners.
77.1706
First aid training program; minimum requirements.
77.1707
First aid equipment; location; minimum requirements.
77.1708
Safety program, instruction of persons employed at the mine.
77.1710
Protective clothing; requirements.
77.1710-1
Distinctively colored hard hats or hard caps; identification for newly employed, inexperienced miners.
77.1711
Smoking prohibition.
77.1712
Reopening mines; notification; inspection prior to mining.
77.1713
Daily inspection of surface coal mine; certified person; reports of inspection.

# Subpart S—Trolley Wires and Trolley Feeder Wires
77.1800
Cutout switches.
77.1801
Overcurrent protection.
77.1801-1
Devices for overcurrent protection.
77.1802
Insulation of trolley wires, trolley feeder wires and bare signal wires; guarding of trolley wires and trolley feeder wires.

# Subpart T—Slope and Shaft Sinking
77.1900
Slopes and shafts; approval of plans.
77.1900-1
Compliance with approved slope and shaft sinking plans.
77.1901
Preshift and onshift inspections; reports.
77.1901-1
Methane and oxygen deficiency tests; approved devices.
77.1902
Drilling and mucking operations.
77.1902-1
Permissible diesel-powered equipment.
77.1903
Hoists and hoisting; minimum requirements.
77.1904
Communications between slope and shaft bottoms and hoist operators.
77.1905
Hoist safeguards; general.
77.1906
Hoists; daily inspection.
77.1907
Hoist construction; general.
77.1908
Hoist installations; use.
77.1908-1
Hoist operation; qualified hoistman.
77.1909
Explosives and blasting; use of permissible explosives and shot-firing units.
77.1909-1
Use of nonpermissible explosives and nonpermissible shot-firing units; approval by Health and Safety District Manager.
77.1910
Explosives and blasting; general.
77.1911
Ventilation of slopes and shafts.
77.1912
Ladders and stairways.
77.1913
Fire-resistant wood.
77.1914
Electrical equipment.
77.1915
Storage and handling of combustible materials.
77.1916
Welding, cutting, and soldering; fire protection.
Subpart U—Approved Books and Records [Reserved]

# Subpart V—Safety Program for Surface Mobile Equipment
77.2100
Purpose and scope.
77.2101
Definitions.
77.2102
Written safety program.
77.2103
Requirements for written safety program.
77.2104
Record and inspection.

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 811.

# Source:
36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 77.1
Scope.
This part 77 sets forth mandatory safety standards for bituminous, anthracite, and lignite surface coal mines, including open pit and auger mines, and to the surface work areas of underground coal mines, pursuant to section 101(i) of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977.
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 43 FR 12320, Mar. 24, 1978]
§ 77.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part 77, the term:
(a)
Active workings
means any place in a coal mine where miners are normally required to work or travel;
(b)
American Table of Distances
means the current edition of “The American Table of Distances for Storage of Explosives” published by the Institute of Makers of Explosives;
(c)
Barricaded
means to obstruct passage of persons, vehicles, or flying materials;
(d)
Berm
means a pile or mound of material capable of restraining a vehicle;
(e)
Blasting agent
means any material consisting of a mixture of a fuel and oxidizer which—
(1) Is used or intended for use in blasting;
(2) Is not classed as an explosive by the Department of Transportation;
(3) Contains no ingredient classed as an explosive by the Department of Transportation; and,
(4) Cannot be detonated by a No. 8 blasting cap when tested as recommended in Bureau of Mines Information Circular 8179.
(f)
Blasting area
means the area near blasting operations in which concussion or flying material can reasonably be expected to cause injury.
(g)
Blasting cap
means a detonator containing a charge of detonating compound, which is ignited by electric current, or the spark of a fuse. Used for detonating explosives.
(h)
Blasting circuit
means electric circuits used to fire electric detonators or to ignite an igniter cord by means of an electric starter.
(i)
Blasting switch
means a switch used to connect a power source to a blasting circuit.
(j)
Box-type magazine
means a small, portable magazine used to store limited quantities of explosives or detonators for short periods of time in locations at the mine which are convenient to the blasting sites at which they will be used.
(k)
Capped fuse
means a length of safety fuse to which a detonator has been attached.
(l)
Capped primer
means a package or cartridge of explosives which is specifically designed to transmit detonation to other explosives and which contains a detonator.
(m)
Certified
or
registered,
as applied to any person means a person certified or registered by the State in which the coal mine is located to perform duties prescribed by this Part 77, except that, in a State where no program of certification or registration is provided or where the program does not meet at least minimum Federal standards established by the Secretary, such certification or registration shall be by the Secretary.
(n)
Detonating cord
or
detonating fuse
means a flexible cord containing a core of high explosive.
(o)
Detonator
means a device containing a small detonating charge that
is used for detonating an explosive, including, but not limited to blasting caps, exploders, electric detonators, and delay electric blasting caps.
(p)
Electrical grounding
means to connect with the ground to make the earth part of the circuit.
(q)
Explosive
means any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common purpose of which is to function by explosion. Explosives include, but are not limited to black powder, dynamite, nitroglycerin, fulminate, ammonium nitrate when mixed with a hydrocarbon, and other blasting agents.
(r)
Flash point
means the minimum temperature at which sufficient vapor is released by a liquid or solid to form a flammable vapor-air mixture at atmospheric pressure.
(s)
Low voltage
means up to and including 660 volts,
medium voltage
means voltages from 661 to 1,000 volts, and
high voltage
means more than 1,000 volts.
(t)
Misfire
means the complete or partial failure of a blasting charge to explode as planned.
(u)
Primer
or
Booster
means a package or cartridge of explosive which is designed specifically to transmit detonation to other explosives and which does not contain a detonator.
(v)
Qualified person
means, as the context requires, (1) An individual deemed qualified by the Secretary and designated by the operator to make tests and examinations required by this Part 77; and,
(2) An individual deemed, in accordance with the minimum requirements to be established by the Secretary, qualified by training, education, and experience, to perform electrical work, to maintain electrical equipment, and to conduct examinations and make tests of all electrical equipment.
(w)
Roll protection
means a framework, safety canopy, or similar protection for the operator when equipment overturns.
(x)
Safety can
means an approved container, of not over 5 gallons capacity, having a spring-closing lid and spout cover.
(y)
Safety fuse
means a train of powder enclosed in cotton, jute yarn, and waterproofing compounds, which burns at a uniform rate; used for firing a cap containing the detonating compound which in turn sets off the explosive charge.
(z)
Safety switch
means a sectionalizing switch that also provides shunt protection in blasting circuits between the blasting switch and the shot area.
(aa)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor or his delegate.
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 43 FR 12320, Mar. 24, 1978]

# Subpart B—Qualified and Certified Persons
§ 77.100
Certified person.
(a)(1) The provisions of this Part 77 require that certain examinations and tests be made by a certified person. A certified person within the meaning of these provisions is a person who has been certified in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this § 77.100 to perform the duties, and make the examinations and tests which are required by this Part 77 to be performed by a certified person.
(2) A person who has been so certified shall also be considered to be a qualified person within the meaning of those provisions of this Part 77 which require that certain examinations, tests and duties be performed by a qualified person, except those provisions in Subparts F, G, H, I, and J of this part relating to performance of electrical work.
(b) Pending issuance of Federal standards, a person will be considered, to the extent of the certification, a certified person to make examinations, tests and perform duties which are required by this Part 77 to be performed by a certified person:
(1) If he has been certified for such purpose by the State in which the coal mine is located; or
(2) If this person has been certified for such purpose by the Secretary. A person's initial certification is valid for as long as the person continues to satisfy the requirements necessary to obtain the certification and is employed at the same coal mine or by the same independent contractor. The mine operator or independent contractor shall make an application
which satisfactorily shows that each such person has had at least 2 years experience at a coal mine or equivalent experience, and that each such person demonstrates to the satisfaction of an authorized representative of the Secretary that such person is able and competent to test for oxygen deficiency with a permissible flame safety lamp, or any other device approved by the Secretary and to test for methane with a portable methane detector approved by the Bureau of Mines, MESA, or MSHA, under Part 22 of this Chapter (Bureau of Mines Schedule 8C), and to perform such other duties for which application for certification is made. Applications for certification by the Secretary should be submitted in writing to the Mine Safety and Health Administration, Certification and Qualification Center, P.O. Box 25367, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colorado 80225.
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 43 FR 12320, Mar. 24, 1978; 54 FR 30515, July 20, 1989]
§ 77.101
Tests for methane and for oxygen deficiency; qualified person.
(a) The provisions of Subparts C, P, R, and T of this Part 77 require that tests for methane and for oxygen deficiency be made by a qualified person. A person is a qualified person for these purposes if he is a certified person for such purposes under § 77.100.
(b) Pending issuance of Federal standards, a person will be considered a qualified person for testing for methane and oxygen deficiency:
(1) If he has been qualified for this purpose by the State in which the coal mine is located; or
(2) If he has been qualified by the Secretary for these purposes upon a satisfactory showing by the operator of the coal mine that each such person has been trained and designated by the operator to test for methane and oxygen deficiency. Applications for Secretarial qualification should be submitted in writing to the Mine Safety and Health Administration, Certification and Qualification Center, P.O. Box 25367, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colo. 80225
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 43 FR 12320, Mar. 24, 1978]
§ 77.102
Tests for methane; oxygen deficiency; qualified person, additional requirement.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 77.101, on and after December 30, 1971, no person shall be a qualified person for testing for methane and oxygen deficiency unless he has demonstrated to the satisfaction of an authorized representative of the Secretary that he is able and competent to make such tests and the Mine Safety and Health Administration has issued him a current card which qualifies him to make such tests.
§ 77.103
Electrical work; qualified person.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, an individual is a qualified person within the meaning of Subparts F, G, H, I, and J of this Part 77 to perform electrical work (other than work on energized surface high-voltage lines) if:
(1) He has been qualified as a coal mine electrician by a State that has a coal mine electrical qualification program approved by the Secretary; or,
(2) He has at least 1 year of experience in performing electrical work underground in a coal mine, in the surface work areas of an underground coal mine, in a surface coal mine, in a noncoal mine, in the mine equipment manufacturing industry, or in any other industry using or manufacturing similar equipment, and has satisfactorily completed a coal mine electrical training program approved by the Secretary; or,
(3) He has at least 1 year of experience, prior to the date of the application required by paragraph (c) of this section, in performing electrical work underground in a coal mine, in the surface work areas of an underground coal mine, in a surface coal mine, in a noncoal mine, in the mine equipment manufacturing industry, or in any other industry using or manufacturing similar equipment, and he attains a satisfactory grade on each of the series of five written tests approved by the Secretary as prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The series of five written tests approved by the Secretary shall include the following categories:
(1) Direct current theory and application;
(2) Alternating current theory and application;
(3) Electric equipment and circuits;
(4) Permissibility of electric equipment; and,
(5) Requirements of Subparts F through J and S of this Part 77.
(c) In order to take the series of five written tests approved by the Secretary, an individual shall apply to the District Manager and shall certify that he meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The tests will be administered in the Coal Mine Safety and Health Districts at regular intervals, or as demand requires.
(d) A score of at least 80 percent on each of the five written tests will be deemed to be a satisfactory grade. Recognition shall be given to practical experience in that 1 percentage point shall be added to an individual's score in each test for each additional year of experience beyond the 1 year requirement specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section; however, in no case shall an individual be given more than 5 percentage points for such practical experience.
(e) An individual may, within 30 days from the date on which he received notification from the Administration of his test scores, repeat those on which he received an unsatisfactory score. If further retesting is necessary after his initial repetition, a minimum of 30 days from the date of receipt of notification of the initial retest scores shall elapse prior to such further retesting.
(f) An individual who has, prior to November 1, 1972, been qualified to perform electrical work specified in Subparts F, G, H, I, and J of this Part 77 (other than work on energized surface high-voltage lines) shall continue to be qualified until June 30, 1973. To remain qualified after June 30, 1973, such individual shall meet the requirements of either paragraph (a) (1), (2), or (3) of this section.
(g) An individual qualified in accordance with this section shall, in order to retain qualification, certify annually to the District Manager, that he has satisfactorily completed a coal mine electrical retraining program approved by the Secretary.
01(a), Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969; 30 U.S.C. 811(a); 83 Stat. 745)
[37 FR 22377, Oct. 19, 1972; 37 FR 28163, Dec. 21, 1972, as amended at 44 FR 9380, Feb. 13, 1979; 47 FR 23641, May 28, 1982]
§ 77.104
Repair of energized surface high-voltage lines; qualified person.
An individual is a qualified person within the meaning of § 77.704 of this part for the purpose of repairing energized surface high-voltage lines only if he has had at least 2 years experience in electrical maintenance, and at least 2 years experience in the repair of energized high-voltage lines located on poles or structures.
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 36 FR 13143, July 15, 1971]
§ 77.105
Qualified hoistman; slope or shaft sinking operation; qualifications.
(a)(1) A person is a qualified hoistman within the provisions of Subpart T of this part, for the purpose of operating a hoist at a slope or shaft sinking operation if he has at least 1 year experience operating a hoist plant or maintaining hoist equipment and is qualified by any State as a hoistman or its equivalency, or
(2) If a State has no program for qualifying persons as hoistmen, the Secretary may qualify persons if the operator of the slope or shaft-sinking operation makes an application and a satisfactory showing that the person has had 1 year of experience operating hoists. A person's qualification is valid for as long as the person continues to satisfy the requirements for qualification and is employed at the same coal mine or by the same independent contractor.
(b) Applications for Secretarial qualification should be submitted to the Mine Safety and Health Administration, Certification and Qualification Center, P.O. Box 25367, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colo. 80225.
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 43 FR 12320, Mar. 24, 1978; 54 FR 30515, July 20, 1989]
§ 77.106
Records of certified and qualified persons.
The operator of each coal mine shall maintain a list of all certified and qualified persons designated to perform duties under this Part 77.
(Pub. L. No. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
))
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 77.107
Training programs.
Every operator of a coal mine shall provide a program, approved by the Secretary, of training and retraining both qualified and certified persons needed to carry out functions prescribed in the Act.
§ 77.107-1
Plans for training programs.
Each operator must submit to the district manager, of the Coal Mine Safety and Health District in which the mine is located, a program or plan setting forth what, when, how, and where the operator will train and retrain persons whose work assignments require that they be certified or qualified. The program must provide—
(a) For certified persons, annual training courses in the tasks and duties which they perform as certified persons, first aid, and the provisions of this part 77; and
(b) For qualified persons, annual courses in performance of the tasks which they perform as qualified persons.
[63 FR 53761, Oct. 6, 1998]

# Subpart C—Surface Installations
§ 77.200
Surface installations; general.
All mine structures, enclosures, or other facilities (including custom coal preparation) shall be maintained in good repair to prevent accidents and injuries to employees.
§ 77.201
Methane content in surface installations.
The methane content in the air of any structure, enclosure or other facility shall be less than 1.0 volume per centum.
§ 77.201-1
Tests for methane; qualified person; use of approved device.
Tests for methane in structures, enclosures, or other facilities, in which coal is handled or stored shall be conducted by a qualified person with a device approved by the Secretary at least once during each operating shift, and immediately prior to any repair work in which welding or an open flame is used, or a spark may be produced.
§ 77.201-2
Methane accumulations; change in ventilation.
If, at any time, the air in any structure, enclosure or other facility contains 1.0 volume per centum or more of methane changes or adjustments in the ventilation of such installation shall be made at once so that the air shall contain less than 1.0 volume per centum of methane.
§ 77.202
Dust accumulations in surface installations.
Coal dust in the air of, or in, or on the surfaces of, structures, enclosures, or other facilities shall not be allowed to exist or accumulate in dangerous amounts.
§ 77.203
Use of material or equipment overhead; safeguards.
Where overhead repairs are being made at surface installations and equipment or material is taken into such overhead work areas, adequate protection shall be provided for all persons working or passing below the overhead work areas in which such equipment or material is being used.
§ 77.204
Openings in surface installations; safeguards.
Openings in surface installations through which men or material may fall shall be protected by railings, barriers, covers or other protective devices.
§ 77.205
Travelways at surface installations.
(a) Safe means of access shall be provided and maintained to all working places.
(b) Travelways and platforms or other means of access to areas where persons are required to travel or work, shall be kept clear of all extraneous
material and other stumbling or slipping hazards.
(c) Inclined travelways shall be constructed of nonskid material or equipped with cleats.
(d) Regularly used travelways shall be sanded, salted, or cleared of snow and ice as soon as practicable.
(e) Crossovers, elevated walkways, elevated ramps, and stairways shall be of substantial construction, provided with handrails, and maintained in good condition. Where necessary toeboards shall be provided.
(f) Crossovers shall be provided where it is necessary to cross conveyors.
(g) Moving conveyors shall be crossed only at designated crossover points.
§ 77.206
Ladders; construction; installation and maintenance.
(a) Ladders shall be of substantial construction and maintained in good condition.
(b) Wooden members of ladders shall not be painted.
(c) Steep or vertical ladders which are used regularly at fixed locations shall be anchored securely and provided with backguards extending from a point not more than 7 feet from the bottom of the ladder to the top of the ladder.
(d) Fixed ladders shall not incline backwards at any point unless provided with backguards.
(e) Fixed ladders shall be anchored securely and installed to provide at least 3 inches of toe clearance.
(f) Fixed ladders shall project at least 3 feet above landings, or substantial handholds shall be provided above the landings.
§ 77.207
Illumination.
Illumination sufficient to provide safe working conditions shall be provided in and on all surface structures, paths, walkways, stairways, switch panels, loading and dumping sites, and working areas.
§ 77.208
Storage of materials.
(a) Materials shall be stored and stacked in a manner which minimizes stumbling or fall-of-material hazards.
(b) Materials that can create hazards if accidentally liberated from their containers shall be stored in a manner that minimizes the dangers.
(c) Containers holding hazardous materials must be of a type approved for such use by recognized agencies.
(d) Compressed and liquid gas cylinders shall be secured in a safe manner.
(e) Valves on compressed gas cylinders shall be protected by covers when being transported or stored, and by a safe location when the cylinders are in use.
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 67 FR 42389, June 21, 2002]
§ 77.209
Surge and storage piles.
No person shall be permitted to walk or stand immediately above a reclaiming area or in any other area at or near a surge or storage pile where the reclaiming operation may expose him to a hazard.
§ 77.210
Hoisting of materials.
(a) Hitches and slings used to hoist materials shall be suitable for handling the type of materials being hoisted.
(b) Men shall stay clear of hoisted loads.
(c) Taglines shall be attached to hoisted materials that require steadying or guidance.
§ 77.211
Draw-off tunnels; stockpiling and reclaiming operations; general.
(a) Tunnels located below stockpiles, surge piles, and coal storage silos shall be ventilated so as to maintain concentrations of methane below 1.0 volume per centum.
(b) In addition to the tests for methane required by § 77.201 such tests shall also be made before any electric equipment is energized or repaired, unless equipped with a continuous methane monitoring device installed and operated in accordance with the provisions of § 77.211-1. Electric equipment shall not be energized, operated, or repaired until the air contains less than 1.0 volume per centum of methane.
§ 77.211-1
Continuous methane monitoring device; installation and operation; automatic deenergization of electric equipment.
Continuous methane monitoring devices shall be set to deenergize automatically electric equipment when such monitor is not operating properly and to give a warning automatically when the concentration of methane reaches a maximum percentage determined by an authorized representative of the Secretary which shall not be more than 1.0 volume per centum of methane. An authorized representative of the Secretary shall require such monitor to deenergize automatically electric equipment when the concentration of methane reaches a maximum percentage determined by such representative which shall not be more than 2.0 volume per centum of methane.
§ 77.212
Draw-off tunnel ventilation fans; installation.
When fans are used to ventilate draw-off tunnels the fans shall be:
(a) Installed on the surface;
(b) Installed in fireproof housings and connected to the tunnel openings with fireproof air ducts; and,
(c) Offset from the tunnel opening.
§ 77.213
Draw-off tunnel escapeways.
When it is necessary for a tunnel to be closed at one end, an escapeway not less than 30 inches in diameter (or of the equivalent, if the escapeway does not have a circular cross section) shall be installed which extends from the closed end of the tunnel to a safe location on the surface; and, if the escapeway is inclined more than 30 degrees from the horizontal it shall be equipped with a ladder which runs the full length of the inclined portion of the escapeway.
§ 77.214
Refuse piles; general.
(a) Refuse piles constructed on or after July 1, 1971, shall be located in areas which are a safe distance from all underground mine airshafts, preparation plants, tipples, or other surface installations and such piles shall not be located over abandoned openings or steamlines.
(b) Where new refuse piles are constructed over exposed coal beds the exposed coal shall be covered with clay or other inert material as the piles are constructed.
(c) A fireproof barrier of clay or inert material shall be constructed between old and new refuse piles.
(d) Roadways to refuse piles shall be fenced or otherwise guarded to restrict the entrance of unauthorized persons.
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 36 FR 13143, July 15, 1971]
§ 77.215
Refuse piles; construction requirements.
(a) Refuse deposited on a pile shall be spread in layers and compacted in such a manner so as to minimize the flow of air through the pile.
(b) Refuse shall not be deposited on a burning pile except for the purpose of controlling or extinguishing a fire.
(c) Clay or other sealants shall be used to seal the surface of any refuse pile in which a spontaneous ignition has occurred.
(d) Surface seals shall be kept intact and protected from erosion by drainage facilities.
(e) Refuse piles shall not be constructed so as to impede drainage or impound water.
(f) Refuse piles shall be constructed in such a manner as to prevent accidental sliding and shifting of materials.
(g) No extraneous combustible material shall be deposited on refuse piles.
(h) After October 31, 1975 new refuse piles and additions to existing refuse piles, shall be constructed in compacted layers not exceeding 2 feet in thickness and shall not have any slope exceeding 2 horizontal to 1 vertical (approximately 27°) except that the District Manager may approve construction of a refuse pile in compacted layers exceeding 2 feet in thickness and with slopes exceeding 27° where engineering data substantiates that a minimum safety factor of 1.5 for the refuse pile will be attained.
(i) Foundations for new refuse piles and additions to existing refuse piles shall be cleared of all vegetation and undesirable material that according to current, prudent engineering practices
would adversely affect the stability of the refuse pile.
(j) All fires in refuse piles shall be extinguished, and the method used shall be in accordance with a plan approved by the District Manager. The plan shall contain as a minimum, provisions to ensure that only those persons authorized by the operator, and who have an understanding of the procedure to be used, shall be involved in the extinguishing operation.
(Secs. 101, 508, Pub. L. 91-173, 83 Stat. 745, 803 (30 U.S.C. 811, 957), Pub. L. No. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
))
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 40 FR 41776, Sept. 9, 1975; 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 77.215-1
Refuse piles; identification.
A permanent identification marker, at least six feet high and showing the refuse pile identification number as assigned by the District Manager, the name associated with the refuse pile and the name of the person owning, operating or controlling the refuse pile, shall be located on or immediately adjacent to each refuse pile within the time specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section as applicable.
(a) For existing refuse piles, markers shall be placed before May 1, 1976.
(b) For new or proposed refuse piles, markers shall be placed within 30 days from acknowledgment of the proposed location of a new refuse pile.
(Secs. 101, 508, Pub. L. 91-173, 83 Stat. 745, 803 (30 U.S.C. 811, 957))
[40 FR 41776, Sept. 9, 1975]
§ 77.215-2
Refuse piles; reporting requirements.
(a) The proposed location of a new refuse pile shall be reported to and acknowledged in writing by the District Manager prior to the beginning of any work associated with the construction of the refuse pile.
(b) Before May 1, 1976, for existing refuse piles, or within 180 days from the date of acknowledgment of the proposed location of a new refuse pile, the person owning, operating or controlling a refuse pile shall submit to the District Manager a report in triplicate which contains the following:
(1) The name and address of the person owning, operating or controlling the refuse pile; the name associated with the refuse pile; the identification number of the refuse pile as assigned by the District Manager; and the identification number of the mine or preparation plant as assigned by MSHA.
(2) The location of the refuse pile indicated on the most recent USGS 7
1/2
minute or 15 minute topographic quadrangle map, or a topographic map of equivalent scale if a USGS map is not available.
(3) A statement of the construction history of the refuse pile, and a statement indicating whether the refuse pile has been abandoned in accordance with a plan approved by the District Manager.
(4) A topographic map showing at a scale not to exceed 1 inch = 400 feet, the present and proposed maximum extent of the refuse pile and the area 500 feet around the proposed maximum perimeter.
(5) A statement of whether or not the refuse pile is burning.
(6) A description of measures taken to prevent water from being impounded by the refuse pile or contained within the refuse pile.
(7) At a scale not to exceed 1 inch = 100 feet, cross sections of the length and width of the refuse pile at sufficient intervals to show the approximate original ground surface, the present configuration and the proposed maximum extent of the refuse pile, and mean sea level elevations at significant points.
(8) Any other information pertaining to the stability of the pile which may be required by the District Manager.
(c) The information required by paragraphs (b)(4) through (b)(8) of this section shall be reported every twelfth month from the date of original submission for those refuse piles which the District Manager has determined can present a hazard until the District Manager notifies the operator that the hazard has been eliminated.
(Secs. 101, 508, Pub. L. 91-173, 83 Stat. 745, 803 (30 U.S.C. 811, 957), Pub. L. No. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
))
[40 FR 41776, Sept. 9, 1975, as amended at 57 FR 7471, Mar. 2, 1992; 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 77.215-3
Refuse piles: certification.
(a) Within 180 days following written notification by the District Manager that a refuse pile can present a hazard, the person owning, operating, or controlling the refuse pile shall submit to the District Manager a certification by a registered engineer that the refuse pile is being constructed or has been modified in accordance with current, prudent engineering practices to minimize the probability of impounding water and failure of such magnitude as to endanger the lives of miners.
(b) After the initial certification required by this section and until the District Manager notifies the operator that the hazard has been eliminated, certification shall be submitted every twelfth month from the date of the initial certification.
(c) Certifications required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall include all information considered in making the certification.
(Secs. 101, 508, Pub. L. 91-173, 83 Stat. 745, 803 (30 U.S.C. 811, 957))
[40 FR 41776, Sept. 9, 1975, as amended at 57 FR 7471, Mar. 2, 1992]
§ 77.215-4
Refuse piles; abandonment.
When a refuse pile is to be abandoned, the District Manager shall be notified in writing, and if he determines it can present a hazard, the refuse pile shall be abandoned in accordance with a plan submitted by the operator and approved by the District Manager. The plan shall include a schedule for its implementation and describe provisions to prevent burning and future impoundment of water, and provide for major slope stability.
(Secs. 101, 508, Pub. L. 91-173, 83 Stat. 745, 803 (30 U.S.C. 811, 957), Pub. L. No. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
))
[40 FR 41776, Sept. 9, 1975, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 77.216
Water, sediment, or slurry impoundments and impounding structures; general.
(a) Plans for the design, construction, and maintenance of structures which impound water, sediment, or slurry shall be required if such an existing or proposed impounding structure can:
(1) Impound water, sediment, or slurry to an elevation of five feet or more above the upstream toe of the structure and can have a storage volume of 20 acre-feet or more; or
(2) Impound water, sediment, or slurry to an elevation of 20 feet or more above the upstream toe of the structure; or
(3) As determined by the District Manager, present a hazard to coal miners.
(b) Plans for the design and construction of all new water, sediment, or slurry impoundments and impounding structures which meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall be submitted in triplicate to and be approved by the District Manager prior to the beginning of any work associated with construction of the impounding structure.
(c) Before May 1, 1976, a plan for the continued use of an existing water, sediment, or slurry impoundment and impounding structure which meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall be submitted in triplicate to the District Manager for approval.
(d) The design, construction, and maintenance of all water, sediment, or slurry impoundments and impounding structures which meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall be implemented in accordance with the plan approved by the District Manager.
(e) All fires in impounding structures shall be extinguished, and the method used shall be in accordance with a plan approved by the District Manager. The plan shall contain as a minimum, provisions to ensure that only those persons authorized by the operator, and who have an understanding of the procedures to be used, shall be involved in the extinguishing operation.
(Secs. 101, 508, Pub. L. 91-173, 83 Stat. 745, 803 (30 U.S.C. 811, 957))
[40 FR 41776, Sept. 9, 1975]
§ 77.216-1
Water, sediment or slurry impoundments and impounding structures; identification.
A permanent identification marker, at least six feet high and showing the identification number of the impounding structure as assigned by the District Manager, the name associated
with the impounding structure and name of the person owning, operating, or controlling the structure, shall be located on or immediately adjacent to each water, sediment or slurry impounding structure within the time specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section as applicable.
(a) For existing water, sediment or slurry impounding structures, markers shall be placed before May 1, 1976.
(b) For new or proposed water, sediment, or slurry impounding structures, markers shall be placed within 30 days from the start of construction.
(Secs. 101, 508, Pub. L. 91-173, 83 Stat. 745, 803 (30 U.S.C. 811, 957))
[40 FR 41777, Sept. 9, 1975]
§ 77.216-2
Water, sediment, or slurry impoundments and impounding structures; minimum plan requirements; changes or modifications; certification.
(a) The plan specified in § 77.216, shall contain as a minimum the following information:
(1) The name and address of the persons owning, operating or controlling the impoundment or impounding structure; the name associated with the impoundment or impounding structure; the identification number of the impounding structure as assigned by the District Manager; and the identification number of the mine or preparation plant as assigned by MSHA.
(2) The location of the structure indicated on the most recent USGS 7
1/2
minute or 15 minute topographic quadrangle map, or a topographic map of equivalent scale if a USGS map is not available.
(3) A statement of the purpose for which the structure is or will be used.
(4) The name and size in acres of the watershed affecting the impoundment.
(5) A description of the physical and engineering properties of the foundation materials on which the structure is or will be constructed.
(6) A statement of the type, size, range, and physical and engineering properties of the materials used, or to be used, in constructing each zone or stage of the impounding structure; the method of site preparation and construction of each zone; the approximate dates of construction of the structure and each successive stage; and for existing structures, such history of construction as may be available, and any record or knowledge of structural instability.
(7) At a scale not to exceed 1 inch = 100 feet, detailed dimensional drawings of the impounding structure including a plan view and cross sections of the length and width of the impounding structure, showing all zones, foundation improvements, drainage provisions, spillways, diversion ditches, outlets, instrument locations, and slope protection, in addition to the measurement of the minimum vertical distance between the crest of the impounding structure and the reservoir surface at present and under design storm conditions, sediment or slurry level, water level and other information pertinent to the impoundment itself, including any identifiable natural or manmade features which could affect operation of the impoundment.
(8) A description of the type and purpose of existing or proposed instrumentation.
(9) Graphs showing area-capacity curves.
(10) A statement of the runoff attributable to the probable maximum precipitation of 6-hour duration and the calculations used in determining such runoff.
(11) A statement of the runoff attributable to the storm for which the structure is designed and the calculations used in determining such runoff.
(12) A description of the spillway and diversion design features and capacities and calculations used in their determination.
(13) The computed minimum factor of safety range for the slope stability of the impounding structure including methods and calculations used to determine each factor of safety.
(14) The locations of surface and underground coal mine workings including the depth and extent of such workings within the area 500 feet around the perimeter, shown at a scale not to exceed one inch = 500 feet.
(15) Provisions for construction surveillance, maintenance, and repair of the impounding structure.
(16) General provisions for abandonment.
(17) A certification by a registered engineer that the design of the impounding structure is in accordance with current, prudent engineering practices for the maximum volume of water, sediment, or slurry which can be impounded therein and for the passage of runoff from the designed storm which exceeds the capacity of the impoundment; or, in lieu of the certification, a report indicating what additional investigations, analyses, or improvement work are necessary before such a certification can be made, including what provisions have been made to carry out such work in addition to a schedule for completion of such work.
(18) Such other information pertaining to the stability of the impoundment and impounding structure which may be required by the District Manager.
(b) Any changes or modifications to plans for water, sediment, or slurry impoundments or impounding structures shall be approved by the District Manager prior to the initiation of such changes or modifications.
(Secs. 101, 508, Pub. L. 91-173, 83 Stat. 745, 803 (30 U.S.C. 811, 957))
[40 FR 41777, Sept. 9, 1975]
§ 77.216-3
Water, sediment, or slurry impoundments and impounding structures; inspection requirements; correction of hazards; program requirements.
(a) All water, sediment, or slurry impoundments that meet the requirements of § 77.216(a) shall be examined as follows:
(1) At intervals not exceeding 7 days, or as otherwise approved by the District Manager, for appearances of structural weakness and other hazardous conditions.
(2) All instruments shall be monitored at intervals not exceeding 7 days, or as otherwise approved by the District Manager.
(3) Longer inspection or monitoring intervals approved under this paragraph (a) shall be justified by the operator based on the hazard potential and performance of the impounding structure, and shall include a requirement for inspection immediately after a specified rain event approved by the District Manager.
(4) All inspections required by this paragraph (a) shall be performed by a qualified person designated by the person owning, operating, or controlling the impounding structure.
(b) When a potentially hazardous condition develops, the person owning, operating or controlling the impounding structure shall immediately:
(1) Take action to eliminate the potentially hazardous condition;
(2) Notify the District Manager;
(3) Notify and prepare to evacuate, if necessary, all coal miners from coal mine property which may be affected by the potentially hazardous conditions; and
(4) Direct a qualified person to monitor all instruments and examine the structure at least once every eight hours, or more often as required by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
(c) After each examination and instrumentation monitoring referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, each qualified person who conducted all or any part of the examination or instrumentation monitoring shall promptly record the results of such examination or instrumentation monitoring in a book which shall be available at the mine for inspection by an authorized representative of the Secretary, and such qualified person shall also promptly report the results of the examination or monitoring to one of the persons specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(d) All examination and instrumentation monitoring reports recorded in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section shall include a report of the action taken to abate hazardous conditions and shall be promptly signed or countersigned by at least one of the following persons:
(1) The mine foreman;
(2) The assistant superintendent of the mine;
(3) The superintendent of the mine;
(4) The person designated by the operator as responsible for health and safety at the mine.
(e) Before May 1, 1976, the person owning, operating, or controlling a
water, sediment, or slurry impoundment which meets the requirements of § 77.216(a) shall adopt a program for carrying out the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. The program shall be submitted for approval to the District Manager. The program shall include as a minimum:
(1) A schedule and procedures for examining the impoundment and impounding structure by a designated qualified person;
(2) A schedule and procedures for monitoring any required or approved instrumentation by a designated qualified person;
(3) Procedures for evaluating hazardous conditions;
(4) Procedures for eliminating hazardous conditions;
(5) Procedures for notifying the District Manager;
(6) Procedures for evacuating coal miners from coal mine property which may be affected by the hazardous condition.
(f) Before making any changes or modifications in the program approved in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, the person owning, operating, or controlling the impoundment shall obtain approval of such changes or modifications from the District Manager.
(g) The qualified person or persons referred to in paragraphs (a), (b)(4), (c), (e)(1), and (e)(2) of this section shall be trained to recognize specific signs of structural instability and other hazardous conditions by visual observation and, if applicable, to monitor instrumentation.
(Secs. 101, 508, Pub. L. 91-173, 83 Stat. 745, 803 (30 U.S.C. 811, 957))
[40 FR 41777, Sept. 9, 1975, as amended at 57 FR 7471, Mar. 2, 1992]
§ 77.216-4
Water, sediment or slurry impoundments and impounding structures; reporting requirements; certification.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, every twelfth month following the date of the initial plan approval, the person owning, operating, or controlling a water, sediment, or slurry impoundment and impounding structure that has not been abandoned in accordance with an approved plan shall submit to the District Manager a report containing the following information:
(1) Changes in the geometry of the impounding structure for the reporting period.
(2) Location and type of installed instruments and the maximum and minimum recorded readings of each instrument for the reporting period.
(3) The minimum, maximum, and present depth and elevation of the impounded water, sediment, or slurry for the reporting period.
(4) Storage capacity of the impounding structure.
(5) The volume of the impounded water, sediment, or slurry at the end of the reporting period.
(6) Any other change which may have affected the stability or operation of the impounding structure that has occurred during the reporting period.
(7) A certification by a registered professional engineer that all construction, operation, and maintenance was in accordance with the approved plan.
(b) A report is not required under this section when the operator provides the District Manager with a certification by a registered professional engineer that there have been no changes under paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section to the impoundment or impounding structure. However, a report containing the information set out in paragraph (a) of this section shall be submitted to the District Manager at least every 5 years.
[57 FR 7471, Mar. 2, 1992]
§ 77.216-5
Water, sediment or slurry impoundments and impounding structures; abandonment.
(a) Prior to abandonment of any water, sediment, or slurry impoundment and impounding structure which meets the requirements of 30 CFR 77.216(a), the person owning, operating, or controlling such an impoundment and impounding structure shall submit to and obtain approval from the District Manager, a plan for abandonment based on current, prudent engineering practices. This plan shall provide for major slope stability, include a schedule for the plan's implementation and, except as provided in paragraph (b) of
this section, contain provisions to preclude the probability of future impoundment of water, sediment, or slurry.
(b) An abandonment plan does not have to contain a provision to preclude the future impoundment of water if the plan is approved by the District Manager and documentation is included in the abandonment plan to ensure that the following requirements are met:
(1) A registered professional engineer, knowledgeable in the principles of dam design and in the design and construction of the structure, shall certify that it substantially conforms to the approved design plan and specifications and that there are no apparent defects.
(2) The current owner or prospective owner shall certify a willingness and ability to assume responsibility for operation and maintenance of the structure.
(3) A permit or approval for the continued existence of the impoundment or impounding structure shall be obtained from the Federal or State agency responsible for dam safety.
[57 FR 7472, Mar. 2, 1992]
§ 77.217
Definitions.
For the purpose of §§ 77.214 through 77.216-5, the term:
(a)
Abandoned
as applied to any refuse pile or impoundment and impounding structure means that work on such pile or structure has been completed in accordance with a plan for abandonment approved by the District Manager.
(b)
Area-capacity curves
means graphic curves which readily show the reservoir water surface area, in acres, at different elevations from the bottom of the reservoir to the maximum water surface, and the capacity or volume, in acre-feet, of the water contained in the reservoir at various elevations.
(c)
Impounding structure
means a structure which is used to impound water, sediment, or slurry, or any combination of such materials.
(d)
Probable maximum precipitation
means the value for a particular area which represents an envelopment of depth-duration-area rainfall relations for all storm types affecting that area adjusted meteorologically to maximum conditions.
(e)
Refuse pile
means a deposit of coal mine waste which may contain a mixture of coal, shale, claystone, siltstone, sandstone, limestone, and related materials that are excavated during mining operations or separated from mined coal and disposed of on the surface as waste byproducts of either coal mining or preparation operations.
Refuse pile
does not mean temporary spoil piles of removed overburden material associated with surface mining operations.
(f)
Safety factor
means the ratio of the forces tending to resist the failure of a structure to the forces tending to cause such failure as determined by accepted engineering practice.
(Secs. 101, 508, Pub. L. 91-173, 83 Stat. 745, 803 (30 U.S.C. 811, 957))
[40 FR 41778, Sept. 9, 1975]

# Subpart D—Thermal Dryers
§ 77.300
Thermal dryers; general.
On and after July 1, 1971 dryer systems used for drying coal at high temperatures, hereinafter referred to as thermal dryers, including rotary dryers, continuous carrier dyes, vertical tray, and cascade dryers, multilouver dryers, suspension or flash dryers, and fluidized bed dryers, shall be maintained and operated in accordance with the provision of § 77.301 to § 77.306.
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 36 FR 13143, July 15, 1971]
§ 77.301
Dryer heating units; operation.
(a) Dryer heating units shall be operated to provide reasonably complete combustion before heated gases are allowed to enter hot gas inlets.
(b) Dryer heating units which are fired by pulverized coal, shall be operated and maintained in accordance with the recommended standards set forth in the National Fire Protection Association Handbook, 12th Edition, Section 9, “Installation of Pulverized Fuel Systems,” 1962.
§ 77.302
Bypass stacks.
Thermal dryer systems shall include a bypass stack, relief stack or individual discharge stack provided with automatic venting which will permit gases from the dryer heating unit to
bypass the heating chamber and vent to the outside atmosphere during any shutdown operation.
§ 77.303
Hot gas inlet chamber dropout doors.
Thermal dryer systems which employ a hot gas inlet chamber shall be equipped with drop-out doors at the bottom of the inlet chamber or with other effective means which permit coal, fly-ash, or other heated material to fall from the chamber.
§ 77.304
Explosion release vents.
Drying chambers, dry-dust collectors, ductwork connecting dryers to dust collectors, and ductwork between dust collectors and discharge stacks shall be protected with explosion release vents which open directly to the outside atmosphere, and all such vents shall be:
(a) Hinged to prevent dislodgment;
(b) Designed and constructed to permit checking and testing by manual operation; and
(c) Equal in size to the cross-sectional area of the collector vortex finder when used to vent dry dust collectors.
§ 77.305
Access to drying chambers, hot gas inlet chambers and ductwork; installation and maintenance.
Drying chambers, hot gas inlet chambers and all ductwork in which coal dust may accumulate shall be equipped with tight sealing access doors which shall remain latched during dryer operation to prevent the emission of coal dust and the loss of fluidizing air.
§ 77.306
Fire protection.
Based on the need for fire protection measures in connection with the particular design of the thermal dryer, an authorized representative of the Secretary may require any of the following measures to be employed:
(a) Water sprays automatically actuated by rises in temperature to prevent fire, installed inside the thermal dryer systems, and such sprays shall be designed to provide for manual operation in the event of power failure.
(b) Fog nozzles, or other no less effective means, installed inside the thermal dryer systems to provide additional moisture or an artificial drying load within the drying system when the system is being started or shutdown.
(c) The water system of each thermal dryer shall be interconnected to a supply of compressed air which permits constant or frequent purging of all water sprays and fog nozzles or other no less effective means of purging shall be provided.
§ 77.307
Thermal dryers; location and installation; general.
(a) Thermal dryer systems erected or installed at any coal mine after June 30, 1971 shall be located at least 100 feet from any underground coal mine opening, and 100 feet from any surface installation where the heat, sparks, flames, or coal dust from the system might cause a fire or explosion.
(b) Thermal dryer systems erected or installed after June 30, 1971 may be covered by roofs, however, such systems shall not be otherwise enclosed unless necessary to protect the health and safety of persons employed at the mine. Where such systems are enclosed, they shall be located in separate fireproof structures of heavy construction with explosion pressure release devices (such as hinged wall panels, window sashes, or louvers); which provide at least 1 square foot of area for each 80 cubic feet of space volume and which are distributed as uniformly as possible throughout the structure.
§ 77.308
Structures housing other facilities; use of partitions.
Thermal dryer systems installed after June 30, 1971 in any structure which also houses a tipple, cleaning plant, or other operating facility shall be separated from all other working areas of such structure by a substantial partition capable of providing greater resistance to explosion pressures than the exterior wall or walls of the structure. The partition shall also include substantial, self-closing fire doors at all entrances to the areas adjoining the dryer system.
§ 77.309
Visual check of system equipment.
Frequent visual checks shall be made by the operator of the thermal dryer
system control station, or by some other competent person, of the bypass dampers, air-tempering louvers, discharge mechanism, and other dryer system equipment.
§ 77.309-1
Control stations; location.
Thermal dryer system control stations constructed after June 30, 1971, shall be installed at a location which will give to the operator of the control station the widest field of visibility of the system and equipment.
§ 77.310
Control panels.
(a) All thermal dryer system control panels constructed after June 30, 1971 shall be located in an area which is relatively free of moisture and dust and shall be installed in such a manner as to minimize vibration.
(b) A schematic diagram containing legends which show the location of each thermocouple, pressure tap, or other control or gaging instrument in the drying system shall be posted on or near the control panel of each thermal drying system.
(c) Each instrument on the control panel shall be identified by a nameplate or equivalent marking.
(d) A plan to control the operation of each thermal dryer system shall be posted at or near the control panel showing a sequence of startup, normal shutdown, and emergency shutdown procedures.
§ 77.311
Alarm devices.
Thermal dryer systems shall be equipped with both audible and visual alarm devices which are set to operate when safe dryer temperatures are exceeded.
§ 77.312
Fail safe monitoring systems.
Thermal dryer systems and controls shall be protected by a fail safe monitoring system which will safely shut down the system and any related equipment upon failure of any component in the dryer system.
§ 77.313
Wet-coal feedbins; low-level indicators.
Wet-coal bins feeding thermal drying systems shall be equipped with both audible and visual low-coal-level indicators.
§ 77.314
Automatic temperature control instruments.
(a) Automatic temperature control instruments for thermal dryer system shall be of the recording type.
(b) Automatic temperature control instruments shall be locked or sealed to prevent tampering or unauthorized adjustment. These instruments shall not be set above the maximum allowable operating temperature.
(c) All dryer control instruments shall be inspected and calibrated at least once every 3 months and a record or certificate of accuracy, signed by a trained employee or by a servicing agent, shall be kept at the plant.
§ 77.315
Thermal dryers; examination and inspection.
Thermal dryer systems shall be examined for fires and coal-dust accumulations if the dryers are not restarted promptly after a shutdown.

# Subpart E—Safeguards for Mechanical Equipment
§ 77.400
Mechanical equipment guards.
(a) Gears; sprockets; chains; drive, head, tail, and takeup pulleys; flywheels; couplings; shafts; sawblades; fan inlets; and similar exposed moving machine parts which may be contacted by persons, and which may cause injury to persons shall be guarded.
(b) Overhead belts shall be guarded if the whipping action from a broken line would be hazardous to persons below.
(c) Guards at conveyor-drive, conveyor-head, and conveyor-tail pulleys shall extend a distance sufficient to prevent a person from reaching behind the guard and becoming caught between the belt and the pulley.
(d) Except when testing the machinery, guards shall be securely in place while machinery is being operated.
§ 77.401
Stationary grinding machines; protective devices.
(a) Stationary grinding machines other than special bit grinders shall be equipped with:
(1) Peripheral hoods (less than 90° throat openings) capable of withstanding the force of a bursting wheel.
(2) Adjustable tool rests set as close as practical to the wheel.
(3) Safety washers.
(b) Grinding wheels shall be operated within the specifications of the manufacturer of the wheel.
(c) Face shields or goggles, in good condition, shall be worn when operating a grinding wheel.
§ 77.402
Hand-held power tools; safety devices.
Hand-held power tools shall be equipped with controls requiring constant hand or finger pressure to operate the tools or shall be equipped with friction or other equivalent safety devices.
§ 77.403
Mobile equipment; falling object protective structures (FOPS).
(a) When necessary to protect the operator of the equipment, all rubber-tired or crawler-mounted self-propelled scrapers, front-end loaders, dozers, graders, loaders, and tractors, with or without attachments, that are used in surface coal mines or the surface work areas of underground coal mines shall be provided with substantial falling object protective structures (FOPS). FOPS which meet the requirements of the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) Standard J 231 shall be considered to be a “substantial” FOPS. An authorized representative of the Secretary may approve a FOPS which provides protection equivalent to SAE J 231.
(b) When necessary to protect the operator of the equipment, forklift or powered industrial trucks shall be provided with substantial FOPS. Such FOPS shall meet the requirements of the State of California, Division of Industrial Safety, General Safety Orders, Register 72, Number 6, February 8, 1972, Article 25, Section 3655—“Overhead Guards for High-Lift Rider Trucks.”
(Sec. 101(a), Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as amended (83 Stat. 745; 30 U.S.C. 811(a))
[39 FR 24007, June 28, 1974]
§ 77.403-1
Mobile equipment; rollover protective structures (ROPS).
(a) All rubber-tired or crawler-mounted self-propelled scrapers, front-end loaders, dozers, graders, loaders, and tractors, with or without attachments, that are used in surface coal mines or the surface work areas of underground coal mines shall be provided with rollover protective structures (hereinafter referred to as ROPS) in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, as applicable.
(b)
Mobile equipment manufactured on and after September 1, 1974.
All mobile equipment described in paragraph (a) of this section manufactured on and after September 1, 1974 shall be equipped with ROPS meeting the requirements of the Department of Labor specified in §§ 1926.1001 and 1926.1002 of Part 1926, Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations—Safety and Health Regulations for Construction.
(c)
Mobile equipment manufactured prior to September 1, 1974.
All mobile equipment described in paragraph (a) of this section manufactured prior to September 1, 1974 shall be equipped with ROPS meeting the requirements of paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section, as appropriate, no later than the dates specified in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this paragraph (c), unless an earlier date is required by an authorized representative of the Secretary under paragraph (c)(4) of this section:
(1) Mobile equipment manufactured between July 1, 1971, and September 1, 1974, shall be equipped with ROPS no later than March 1, 1975.
(2) Mobile equipment manufactured between July 1, 1970, and June 30, 1971, shall be equipped with ROPS no later than July 1, 1975.
(3) Mobile equipment manufactured between July 1, 1969, and June 30, 1970, shall be equipped with ROPS no later than January 1, 1976.
(4) Irrespective of the time periods specified in paragraph (c) (1) through (3) of this section an authorized representative of the Secretary may require such mobile equipment to be equipped with ROPS at an earlier date when necessary to protect the operator of the equipment under the conditions in which the mobile equipment is, or will be operated. The authorized representative of the Secretary shall in writing advise the operator that the equipment shall be equipped with a
ROPS and shall fix a time within which the operator shall provide and install the ROPS. If such ROPS is not provided and installed within the time fixed a notice shall be issued to the operator pursuant to section 104 of the Act.
(5) Nothing in this § 77.403-1 shall preclude the issuance of a withdrawal order because of imminent danger.
(d) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, mobile equipment described in paragraph (a) of this section, manufactured prior to September 1, 1974, shall be deemed in compliance with this section if the ROPS is installed in accordance with the recommendations of the ROPS manufacturer or designer. The coal mine operator shall exhibit certification from the ROPS manufacturer or designer in the form of a label attached to the equipment, indicating the manufacturer's or fabricator's name and address, the ROPS model number, if any, the machine make, model or series number that the structure is designed to fit, and compliance with the applicable specification listed in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, or he shall, upon request of the authorized representative of the Secretary, furnish certification from a registered professional engineer that:
(1) The ROPS complies with the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) Standard J 397, “Critical Zone—Characteristics and Dimensions for Operators of Construction and Industrial Machinery” or SAE J 397a, “Deflection Limiting Volume for Laboratory Evaluation of Rollover Protective Structures (ROPS) and Falling Object Protective Structures (FOPS) of Construction and Industrial Vehicles” and the following applicable SAE Standards:
(i) J 320a, “Minimum Performance Criteria for Rollover Protective Structure for Rubber-Tired Self-Propelled Scrapers” or J 320b, “Minimum Performance Criteria for Rollover Protective Structures for Prime Movers”; or
(ii) J 394, “Minimum Performance Criteria for Rollover Protective Structure for Rubber-Tired Front-End Loaders and Rubber-Tired Dozers” or J 394a, “Minimum Performance Criteria for Rollover Protective Structures for Wheeled Front-End Loaders and Wheeled Dozers”; or
(iii) J 395, “Minimum Performance Criteria for Rollover Protective Structure for Crawler Tractors and Crawler-Type Loaders” or J 395a, “Minimum Performance Criteria for Rollover Protective Structures for Track-Type Tractors and Track-Type Front-End Loaders”; or
(iv) J 396 or J 396a, “Minimum Performance Criteria for Rollover Protective Structures for Motor Graders”; or
(v) J 167, “Protective Frame with Overhead Protection—Test Procedures and Performance Requirements”; or
(vi) J 334a, “Protective Frame Test Procedures and Performance Requirements”; or
(2) The ROPS and supporting attachments will:
(i) Show satisfactory performance by actual test of a prototype involving a roll of 720° or more; or
(ii) Support not less than the weight of the vehicle applied as a uniformly distributed horizontal load at the top of the structure and perpendicular to a vertical plane through the longitudinal axis of the prime mover, and support two times the weight of the vehicle applied as a uniformly distributed vertical load to the top of the structure;
1
or
1
1Paragraph (d) of § 77.403-1 is based on the ROPS criteria of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Safety—General Safety Requirements EM 385-1-1, Change 1, No. 21, Para. 18.A.20 (March 27, 1972), except that subparagraph (2)(ii) of this paragraph (d) is substituted for Para. 18.A.20e(2) of the Corps requirements.
(iii) Support the following separately applied minimum loads:
(A) 125 percent of the weight of the vehicle applied as a uniformly distributed horizontal load at the top of the ROPS and perpendicular to a critical plane through the longitudinal axis of the prime mover; and
(B) A load of twice the weight of the vehicle applied as a uniformly distributed vertical load to the top of the ROPS after complying with paragraph (d) (1) (iii) (A) of this section. Stresses shall not exceed the ultimate strength. Steel used in the ROPS must have capability to perform at 0 °F., or exhibit Charpy V-notch impact strength at 8
ft.-lb. at −20 °F. with a standard Charpy V-notch Type A specimen and provide 20 percent elongation over two inches in a standard two inch gauge length on a 0.505 inch diameter tensile specimen. Bolts and nuts shall be SAE grade 8 (reference SAE J 429d, J 429e, J 429f or J 429g and J 995, J 995a or J 995b).
(e)
Mobile equipment manufactured prior to September 1, 1974 meeting certain existing governmental requirements for ROPS.
Mobile equipment described in paragraph (a) of this section, manufactured prior to September 1, 1974 and already equipped with ROPS, shall be deemed in compliance with this section if it meets the ROPS requirements of the State of California, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation of the U.S. Department of the Interior in effect on April 5, 1972, or the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor. The requirements in effect are:
(1) State of California: Construction Safety Orders 1591(i), 1596, and Logging and Sawmill Safety Order 5243, issued by the Department of Industrial Relations pursuant to Division 5, Labor Code § 6312, State of California;
(2) U.S. Army Corps of Engineers: Safety—General Safety Requirements, EM-385-1-1 (March 1967);
(3) Bureau of Reclamation, U.S. Department of the Interior: Safety and Health Regulations for Construction, Part II (September 1971); and
(4) Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor: Safety and Health Regulations for Construction, 29 CFR 1926.1001 and 1926.1002.
(f) Field welding on ROPS shall be performed by welders who are certified by the coal mine operator or equipment distributor as being qualified in accordance with the American Welding Society Structural Welding Code AWS D1.1-73, or Military Standard MIL-STD 248, or the equivalent thereof.
(g) Seat belts required by § 77.1710(i) shall be worn by the operator of mobile equipment required to be equipped with ROPS by § 77.403-1.
(Sec. 101(a), Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as amended (83 Stat. 745; 30 U.S.C. 811(a))
[39 FR 24007, June 28, 1974. Redesignated and amended at 71 FR 16669, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 77.403-2
Incorporation by reference.
In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a), the publications to which references are made in §§ 77.403 and 77.403-1 and which have been prepared by organizations other than the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. The incorporated publications are available at each MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health district office of MSHA. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Safety—General Safety Requirements and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations are also available from the Information Dissemination (Superintendent of Documents), P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954; Telephone: 866-512-1800 (toll free) or 202-512-1800;
http://bookstore.gpo.gov.
Bureau of Reclamation Safety and Health Regulations for Construction are available from the Bureau of Reclamation, Division of Safety, Engineering and Research Center, Denver, Colorado. SAE documents are available from the Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc., 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096. American Welding Society Structural Welding Code D1-1-73 is available from the American Welding Society, Inc., 550 N.W. LeJeune Road, Miami, FL 33126. Military Standard MIL-STD 248 is available from the U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20202.
(Sec. 101(a), the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as amended (83 Stat. 745; 30 U.S.C. 811(a))
[39 FR 24008, June 28, 1974, as amended at 60 FR 35695, July 11, 1995. Redesignated and amended at 71 FR 16669, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 77.404
Machinery and equipment; operation and maintenance.
(a) Mobile and stationary machinery and equipment shall be maintained in safe operating condition and machinery or equipment in unsafe condition
shall be removed from service immediately.
(b) Machinery and equipment shall be operated only by persons trained in the use of and authorized to operate such machinery or equipment.
(c) Repairs or maintenance shall not be performed on machinery until the power is off and the machinery is blocked against motion, except where machinery motion is necessary to make adjustments.
(d) Machinery shall not be lubricated while in motion where a hazard exists, unless equipped with extended fittings or cups.
§ 77.405
Performing work from a raised position; safeguards.
(a) Men shall not work on or from a piece of mobile equipment in a raised position until it has been blocked in place securely. This does not preclude the use of equipment specifically designed as elevated mobile work platforms.
(b) No work shall be performed under machinery or equipment that has been raised until such machinery or equipment has been securely blocked in position.
§ 77.406
Drive belts.
(a) Drive belts shall not be shifted while in motion unless the machines are provided with mechanical shifters.
(b) Belt dressing shall not be applied while belts are in motion except where it can be applied without endangering a person.
§ 77.407
Power-driven pulleys.
(a) Belts, chains, and ropes shall not be guided onto power-driven moving pulleys, sprockets, or drums with the hands except on slow moving equipment especially designed for hand feeding.
(b) Pulleys of conveyors shall not be cleaned manually while the conveyor is in motion.
§ 77.408
Welding operations.
Welding operations shall be shielded and the area shall be well-ventilated.
§ 77.409
Shovels, draglines, and tractors.
(a) Shovels, draglines, and tractors shall not be operated in the presence of any person exposed to a hazard from its operation and all such equipment shall be provided with an adequate warning device which shall be sounded by the operator prior to starting operation.
(b) Shovels and draglines shall be equipped with handrails along and around all walkways and platforms.
§ 77.410
Mobile equipment; automatic warning devices.
(a) Mobile equipment such as front-end loaders, forklifts, tractors, graders, and trucks, except pickup trucks with an unobstructed rear view, shall be equipped with a warning device that—
(1) Gives an audible alarm when the equipment is put in reverse; or
(2) Uses infrared light, ultrasonic waves, radar, or other effective devices to detect objects or persons at the rear of the equipment, and sounds an audible alarm when a person or object is detected. This type of discriminating warning device shall—
(i) Have a sensing area of a sufficient size that would allow endangered persons adequate time to get out of the danger zone.
(ii) Give audible and visual alarms inside the operator's compartment and an audible alarm outside of the operator's compartment when a person or object is detected in the sensing area; and
(iii) When the equipment is put in reverse, activate and give a one-time audible and visual alarm inside the operator's compartment and a one-time audible alarm outside the operator's compartment.
(b) Alarms shall be audible above the surrounding noise levels.
(c) Warning devices shall be maintained in functional condition.
(d) An automatic reverse-activated strobe light may be substituted for an audible alarm when mobile equipment is operated at night.
[54 FR 30517, July 20, 1989]
§ 77.411
Compressed air and boilers; general.
All boilers and pressure vessels shall be constructed, installed, and maintained in accordance with the standards and specifications of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.
§ 77.412
Compressed air systems.
(a) Compressors and compressed-air receivers shall be equipped with automatic pressure-relief valves, pressure gages, and drain valves.
(b) Repairs involving the pressure system of compressors, receivers, or compressed-air-powered equipment shall not be attempted until the pressure has been relieved from that part of the system to be repaired.
(c) At no time shall compressed air be directed toward a person. When compressed air is used, all necessary precautions shall be taken to protect persons from injury.
(d) Safety chains or suitable locking devices shall be used at connections to machines of high-pressure hose lines of 1-inch inside diameter or larger, and between high-pressure hose lines of 1-inch inside diameter or larger, where a connection failure would create a hazard.
§ 77.413
Boilers.
(a) Boilers shall be equipped with guarded, well-maintained water gages and pressure gages placed so that they can be observed easily. Water gages and pipe passages to the gages shall be kept clean and free of scale and rust.
(b) Boilers shall be equipped with automatic pressure-relief valves; valves shall be opened manually at least once a week to determine that they will function properly.
(c) Blowoff valves shall be piped outside the building and shall have outlets so located or protected that persons passing by, near, or under them will not be scalded.
(d) Boiler installations shall be provided with safety devices, acceptable to the Mine Safety and Health Administration, to protect against hazards of flameouts, fuel interruptions, and low-water level.
(e) Boilers shall be inspected internally at least once a year by a licensed inspector and a certificate of inspection signed by the inspector shall be displayed in the vicinity of the boiler.

# Subpart F—Electrical Equipment—General
§ 77.500
Electric power circuits and electric equipment; deenergization.
Power circuits and electric equipment shall be deenergized before work is done on such circuits and equipment, except when necessary for troubleshooting or testing.
§ 77.501
Electric distribution circuits and equipment; repair.
No electrical work shall be performed on electric distribution circuits or equipment, except by a qualified person or by a person trained to perform electrical work and to maintain electrical equipment under the direct supervision of a qualified person. Disconnecting devices shall be locked out and suitably tagged by the persons who perform such work, except that in cases where locking out is not possible, such devices shall be opened and suitably tagged by such persons. Locks or tags shall be removed only by the persons who installed them or, if such persons are unavailable, by persons authorized by the operator or his agent.
§ 77.501-1
Qualified person.
A qualified person within the meaning of § 77.501 is an individual who meets the requirements of § 77.103.
§ 77.502
Electric equipment; examination, testing, and maintenance.
Electric equipment shall be frequently examined, tested, and properly maintained by a qualified person to assure safe operating conditions. When a potentially dangerous condition is found on electric equipment, such equipment shall be removed from service until such condition is corrected. A record of such examinations shall be kept.
§ 77.502-1
Qualified person.
A qualified person within the meaning of § 77.502 is an individual who meets the requirements of § 77.103.
§ 77.502-2
Electric equipment; frequency of examination and testing.
The examinations and tests required under the provision of this § 77.502 shall be conducted at least monthly.
§ 77.503
Electric conductors; capacity and insulation.
Electric conductors shall be sufficient in size and have adequate current carrying capacity and be of such construction that a rise in temperature resulting from normal operation will not damage the insulating materials.
§ 77.503-1
Electric conductors.
Electric conductors shall be sufficient in size to meet the minimum current carrying capacity provided for in the National Electric Code, 1968. All trailing cables shall meet the minimum requirements for ampacity provided in the standards of the Insulated Power Cable Engineers Association—National Electric Manufacturers Association in effect when such cables are purchased.
§ 77.504
Electrical connections or splices; suitability.
Electrical connections or splices in electric conductors shall be mechanically and electrically efficient, and suitable connectors shall be used. All electrical connections or splices in insulated wire shall be reinsulated at least to the same degree of protection as the remainder of the wire.
§ 77.505
Cable fittings; suitability.
Cables shall enter metal frames of motors, splice boxes, and electric compartments only through proper fittings. When insulated wires, other than cables, pass through metal frames, the holes shall be substantially bushed with insulated bushings.
§ 77.506
Electric equipment and circuits; overload and short-circuit protection.
Automatic circuit-breaking devices or fuses of the correct type and capacity shall be installed so as to protect all electric equipment and circuits against short circuit and overloads.
§ 77.506-1
Electric equipment and circuits; overload and short circuit protection; minimum requirements.
Devices providing either short circuit protection or protection against overload shall conform to the minimum requirements for protection of electric circuits and equipment of the National Electric Code, 1968.
§ 77.507
Electric equipment; switches.
All electric equipment shall be provided with switches or other controls that are safely designed, constructed, and installed.
§ 77.508
Lightning arresters, ungrounded and exposed power conductors and telephone wires.
All ungrounded, exposed power conductors and telephone wires shall be equipped with suitable lightning arresters which are adequately installed and connected to a low resistance grounding medium.
§ 77.508-1
Lightning arresters; wires entering buildings.
Lightning arresters protecting exposed telephone wires entering buildings shall be provided at the point where each such telephone wire enters the building.
§ 77.509
Transformers; installation and guarding.
(a) Transformers shall be of the totally enclosed type, or shall be placed at least 8 feet above the ground, or installed in a transformer house, or surrounded by a substantial fence at least 6 feet high and at least 3 feet from any energized parts, casings, or wiring.
(b) Transformer stations shall be enclosed to prevent persons from unintentionally or inadvertently contacting energized parts.
(c) Transformer enclosures shall be kept locked against unauthorized entry.
§ 77.510
Resistors; location and guarding.
Resistors, heaters, and rheostats shall be located so as to minimize fire hazards and, where necessary, provided with guards to prevent personal contact.
§ 77.511
Danger signs at electrical installations.
Suitable danger signs shall be posted at all major electrical installations.
§ 77.512
Inspection and cover plates.
Inspection and cover plates on electrical equipment shall be kept in place at all times except during testing or repairs.
§ 77.513
Insulating mats at power switches.
Dry wooden platforms, insulating mats, or other electrically nonconductive material shall be kept in place at all switchboards and power-control switches where shock hazards exist. However, metal plates on which a person normally would stand and which are kept at the same potential as the grounded, metal, non-current-carrying parts of the power switches to be operated may be used.
§ 77.514
Switchboards; passageways and clearance.
Switchboards shall be installed to provide passageways or lanes of travel which permit access to the back of the switchboard from both ends for inspection, adjustment or repair. Openings permitting access to the rear of any switchboard shall be guarded, except where they are located in buildings which are kept locked.
§ 77.515
Bare signal or control wires; voltage.
The voltage on bare signal or control wires accessible to personal contact shall not exceed 40 volts.
§ 77.516
Electric wiring and equipment; installation and maintenance.
In addition to the requirements of §§ 77.503 and 77.506, all wiring and electrical equipment installed after June 30, 1971, shall meet the requirements of the National Electric Code in effect at the time of installation.

# Subpart G—Trailing Cables
§ 77.600
Trailing cables; short-circuit protection; disconnecting devices.
Short-circuit protection for trailing cables shall be provided by an automatic circuit breaker or other no less effective device, approved by the Secretary, of adequate current-interrupting capacity in each ungrounded conductor. Disconnecting devices used to disconnect power from trailing cables shall be plainly marked and identified and such devices shall be equipped or designed in such a manner that it can be determined by visual observation that the power is disconnected.
§ 77.601
Trailing cables or portable cables; temporary splices.
Temporary splices in trailing cables or portable cables shall be made in a workmanlike manner and shall be mechanically strong and well insulated. Trailing cables or portable cables with exposed wires or splices that heat or spark under load shall not be used.
§ 77.602
Permanent splicing of trailing cables.
When permanent splices in trailing cables are made, they shall be:
(a) Mechanically strong with adequate electrical conductivity;
(b) Effectively insulated and sealed so as to exclude moisture; and,
(c) Vulcanized or otherwise made with suitable materials to provide good bonding to the outer jacket.
§ 77.603
Clamping of trailing cables to equipment.
Trailing cables shall be clamped to machines in a manner to protect the cables from damage and to prevent strain on the electrical connections.
§ 77.604
Protection of trailing cables.
Trailing cables shall be adequately protected to prevent damage by mobile equipment.
§ 77.605
Breaking trailing cable and power cable connections.
Trailing cable and power cable connections between cables and to power sources shall not be made or broken under load.
§ 77.606
Energized trailing cables; handling.
Energized medium- and high-voltage trailing cables shall be handled only by persons wearing protective rubber gloves (see § 77.606-1) and, with such
other protective devices as may be necessary and appropriate under the circumstances.
§ 77.606-1
Rubber gloves; minimum requirements.
(a) Rubber gloves (lineman's gloves) worn while handling high-voltage trailing cables shall be rated at least 20,000 volts and shall be used and tested in accordance with the provisions of §§ 77.704-6 through 77.704-8.
(b) Rubber gloves (wireman's gloves) worn while handling trailing cables energized by 660 to 1,000 volts shall be rated at least 1,000 volts and shall not be worn inside out or without protective leather gloves.
(c) Rubber gloves shall be inspected for defects before use on each shift and at least once thereafter during the shift when such rubber gloves are used for extended periods. All protective rubber gloves which contain defects shall be discarded and replaced prior to handling energized cables.

# Subpart H—Grounding
§ 77.700
Grounding metallic sheaths, armors, and conduits enclosing power conductors.
Metallic sheaths, armors, and conduits enclosing power conductors shall be electrically continuous throughout and shall be grounded by methods approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
§ 77.700-1
Approved methods of grounding.
Metallic sheaths, armors, and conduits in resistance grounded systems, where the enclosed conductors are a part of the system, will be approved if a solid connection is made to the neutral conductor; in all other systems, the following methods of grounding will be approved:
(a) A solid connection to metal waterlines having low resistance to earth;
(b) A solid connection to a grounding conductor, other than the neutral conductor of a resistance grounded system, extending to a low-resistance ground field;
(c) Any other method of grounding, approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary, which ensures that there is no difference in potential between such metallic enclosures and the earth.
§ 77.701
Grounding metallic frames, casings, and other enclosures of electric equipment.
Metallic frames, casings, and other enclosures of electric equipment that can become “alive” through failure of insulation or by contact with energized parts shall be grounded by methods approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
§ 77.701-1
Approved methods of grounding of equipment receiving power from ungrounded alternating current power systems.
For purposes of grounding metallic frames, casings and other enclosures of equipment receiving power from ungrounded alternating current power systems, the following methods of grounding will be approved:
(a) A solid connection between the metallic frame; casing, or other metal enclosure and the grounded metallic sheath, armor, or conduit enclosing the power conductor feeding the electric equipment enclosed;
(b) A solid connection to metal waterlines having low resistance to earth;
(c) A solid connection to a grounding conductor extending to a low-resistance ground field; and,
(d) Any other method of grounding, approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary, which insures that there is no difference in potential between such metal enclosures and the earth.
§ 77.701-2
Approved methods of grounding metallic frames, casings, and other enclosures of electric equipment receiving power from a direct-current power system.
(a) The following methods of grounding metallic frames, casings, and other enclosures of electric equipment receiving power from a direct-current power system with one polarity grounded will be approved:
(1) A solid connection to the grounded power conductor of the system; and,
(2) Any other method, approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary, which insures that there is no difference in potential between such metal enclosures and the earth.
(b) A method of grounding of metallic frames, casings, and other enclosures of electric equipment receiving power from a direct-current power system other than a system with one polarity grounded, will be approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary if the method insures that there is no difference in potential between such frames, casings, and other enclosures, and the earth.
§ 77.701-3
Grounding wires; capacity.
Where grounding wires are used to ground metallic sheaths, armors, conduits, frames, casings, and other metallic enclosures, such grounding wires will be approved if:
(a) Where the power conductor used is No. 6 A.W.G., or larger, the cross-sectional area of the grounding wire is at least one-half the cross-sectional area of the power conductor.
(b) Where the power conductor used is less than No. 6 A.W.G., the cross-sectional area of the grounding wire is equal to the cross-sectional area of the power conductor.
§ 77.701-4
Use of grounding connectors.
If ground wires are attached to grounded power conductors, separate clamps, suitable for such purpose, shall be used and installed to provide a solid connection.
§ 77.702
Protection other than grounding.
Methods other than grounding which provide no less effective protection may be permitted by the Secretary or his authorized representative. Such methods may not be used unless so approved.
§ 77.703
Grounding frames of stationary high-voltage equipment receiving power from ungrounded delta systems.
The frames of all stationary high-voltage equipment receiving power from ungrounded delta systems shall be grounded by methods approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
§ 77.703-1
Approved methods of grounding.
The methods of grounding stated in § 77.701-1 will be approved with respect to the grounding of frames of high-voltage equipment referred to in § 77.703.
§ 77.704
Work on high-voltage lines; deenergizing and grounding.
High-voltage lines shall be deenergized and grounded before work is performed on them, except that repairs may be permitted on energized high-voltage lines if (a) such repairs are made by a qualified person in accordance with procedures and safeguards set forth in §§ 77.704-1 through 77.704-11 of this Subpart H as applicable, and (b) the operator has tested and properly maintained the protective devices necessary in making such repairs.
§ 77.704-1
Work on high-voltage lines.
(a) No high-voltage line shall be regarded as deenergized for the purpose of performing work on it, until it has been determined by a qualified person (as provided in § 77.103) that such high-voltage line has been deenergized and grounded. Such qualified person shall by visual observation (1) determine that the disconnecting devices on the high-voltage circuit are in open position, and (2) insure that each ungrounded conductor of the high-voltage circuit upon which work is to be done is properly connected to the system grounding medium. In the case of resistance grounded or solid wye-connected systems, the neutral wire is the system grounding medium. In the case of an ungrounded power system, either the steel armor or conduit enclosing the system or a surface grounding field is a system grounding medium;
(b) No work shall be performed on any high-voltage line which is supported by any pole or structure which also supports other high-voltage lines until: (1) All lines supported on the pole or structure are deenergized and grounded in accordance with all of the provisions of this § 77.704-1 which apply to the repair of deenergized surface high-voltage lines; or (2) the provisions
of §§ 77.704-2 through 77.704-10 have been complied with, with respect to all energized lines, which are supported on the pole or structure.
(c) Work may be performed on energized surface high-voltage lines only in accordance with the provisions of §§ 77.704-2 through 77.704-10, inclusive.
§ 77.704-2
Repairs to energized high-voltage lines.
An energized high-voltage line may be repaired only when:
(a) The operator has determined that,
(1) Such repairs cannot be scheduled during a period when the power circuit could be properly deenergized and grounded;
(2) Such repairs will be performed on power circuits with a phase-to-phase nominal voltage no greater than 15,000 volts;
(3) Such repairs on circuits with a phase-to-phase nominal voltage of 5,000 volts or more will be performed only with the use of live line tools; and,
(4) Weather conditions will not interfere with such repairs or expose those persons assigned to such work to an imminent danger; and,
(b) The operator has designated a person qualified under the provisions of § 77.104 as the person responsible for carrying out such repairs and such person, in order to ensure protection for himself and other qualified persons assigned to perform such repairs from the hazards of such repair, has prepared and filed with the operator:
(1) A general description of the nature and location of the damage or defect to be repaired;
(2) The general plan to be followed in making such repairs;
(3) A statement that a briefing of all qualified persons assigned to make such repairs was conducted informing them of the general plan, their individual assignments, and the dangers inherent in such assignments;
(4) A list of the proper protective equipment and clothing that will be provided; and
(5) Such other information as the person designated by the operator feels necessary to describe properly the means or methods to be employed in such repairs.
§ 77.704-3
Work on energized high-voltage surface lines; reporting.
Any operator designating and assigning qualified persons to perform repairs on energized high-voltage surface lines under the provisions of § 77.704-2 shall maintain a record of such repairs. Such record shall contain a notation of the time, date, location, and general nature of the repairs made together with a copy of the information filed with the operator by the qualified person designated as responsible for performing such repairs.
§ 77.704-4
Simultaneous repairs.
When two or more persons are working on an energized high-voltage surface line simultaneously, and any one of them is within reach of another, such persons shall not be allowed to work on different phases or on equipment with different potentials.
§ 77.704-5
Installation of protective equipment.
Before repair work on energized high-voltage surface lines is begun, protective equipment shall be used to cover all bare conductors, ground wires, guys, telephone lines, and other attachments in proximity to the area of planned repairs. Such protective equipment shall be installed from a safe position below the conductors or other apparatus being covered. Each rubber protective device employed in the making of repairs shall have a dielectric strength of 20,000 volts, or more.
§ 77.704-6
Protective clothing; use and inspection.
All persons performing work on energized high-voltage surface lines shall wear protective rubber lineman's gloves, sleeves, and climber guards if climbers are worn. Protective rubber gloves shall not be worn wrong side out or without protective leather gloves. Protective devices worn by a person assigned to perform repairs on high-voltage surface lines shall be worn continuously from the time he leaves the ground until he returns to the ground and, if such devices are employed for extended periods, such person shall visually inspect the equipment assigned him for defects before each use and, in no case, less than twice each day.
§ 77.704-7
Protective equipment; inspection.
Each person shall visually inspect protective equipment and clothing provided him in connection with work on high-voltage surface lines before using such equipment and clothing, and any equipment or clothing containing any defect or damage shall be discarded and replaced with proper protective equipment or clothing prior to the performance of any electrical work on such lines.
§ 77.704-8
Protective equipment; testing and storage.
(a) All rubber protective equipment used on work on energized high-voltage surface lines shall be electrically tested by the operator in accordance with ASTM standards, Part 28, published February 1968, and such testing shall be conducted in accordance with the following schedule:
(1) Rubber gloves, once each month;
(2) Rubber sleeves, once every 3 months;
(3) Rubber blankets, once every 6 months;
(4) Insulator hoods and line hose, once a year; and
(5) Other electric protective equipment, once a year.
(b) Rubber gloves shall not be stored wrong side out. Blankets shall be rolled when not in use, and line hose, and insulator hoods shall be stored in their natural position and shape.
§ 77.704-9
Operating disconnecting or cutout switches.
Disconnecting or cutout switches on energized high-voltage surface lines shall be operated only with insulated sticks, fuse tongs, or pullers which are adequately insulated and maintained to protect the operator from the voltage to which he is exposed. When such switches are operated from the ground, the person using such devices shall wear protective rubber lineman's gloves, except where such switches are bonded to a metal mat as provided in § 77.513.
§ 77.704-10
Tying into energized high-voltage surface circuits.
If the work of forming an additional circuit by tying into an energized high-voltage surface line is performed from the ground, any person performing such work must wear and employ all of the protective equipment and clothing required under the provisions of §§ 77.704-5 and 77.704-6. In addition, the insulated stick used by such person must have been designed for such purpose and must be adequately insulated and be maintained to protect such person from the voltage to which he is exposed.
§ 77.704-11
Use of grounded messenger wires; ungrounded systems.
Solely for purposes of grounding ungrounded high-voltage power systems, grounded messenger wires used to suspend the cables of such systems may be used as a grounding medium.
§ 77.705
Guy wires; grounding.
Guy wires from poles supporting high-voltage transmission lines shall be securely connected to the system ground or be provided with insulators installed near the pole end.

# Subpart I—Surface High-Voltage Distribution
§ 77.800
High-voltage circuits; circuit breakers.
High-voltage circuits supplying power to portable or mobile equipment shall be protected by suitable circuit breakers of adequate interrupting capacity which are properly tested and maintained and equipped with devices to provide protection against under voltage, grounded phase, short circuit and overcurrent. High-voltage circuits supplying power to stationary equipment shall be protected against overloads by either a circuit breaker or fuses of the correct type and capacity.
§ 77.800-1
Testing, examination, and maintenance of circuit breakers; procedures.
(a) Circuit breakers and their auxiliary devices protecting high-voltage circuits to portable or mobile equipment shall be tested and examined at least once each month by a person qualified as provided in § 77.103.
(b) Tests shall include:
(1) Breaking continuity of the ground check conductor where ground check monitoring is used; and,
(2) Actuating any of the auxiliary protective relays.
(c) Examination shall include visual observation of all components of the circuit breaker and its auxiliary devices, and such repairs or adjustments as are indicated by such tests and examinations shall be carried out immediately.
§ 77.800-2
Testing, examination, and maintenance of circuit breakers; record.
The operator shall maintain a written record of each test, examination, repair, or adjustment of all circuit breakers protecting high-voltage circuits. Such record shall be kept in a book approved by the Secretary.
§ 77.801
Grounding resistors.
The grounding resistor, where required, shall be of the proper ohmic value to limit the voltage drop in the grounding circuit external to the resistor to not more than 100 volts under fault conditions. The grounding resistor shall be rated for maximum fault current continuously and insulated from ground for a voltage equal to the phase-to-phase voltage of the system.
§ 77.801-1
Grounding resistors; continuous current rating.
The ground fault current rating of grounding resistors shall meet the “extended time rating” set forth in American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Standard No. 32.
§ 77.802
Protection of high-voltage circuits; neutral grounding resistors; disconnecting devices.
High-voltage circuits supplying portable or mobile equipment shall contain either a direct or derived neutral which shall be grounded through a suitable resistor at the source transformers, and a grounding circuit, originating at the grounded side of the grounding resistor, shall extend along with the power conductors and serve as a grounding conductor for the frames of all high-voltage equipment supplied power from that circuit, except that the Secretary or his authorized representative may permit other high-voltage circuits to feed stationary electrical equipment, if he finds that such exception will not pose a hazard to the miners. Disconnecting devices shall be installed and so equipped or designed in such a manner that it can be determined by visual observation that the power is disconnected.
§ 77.803
Fail safe ground check circuits on high-voltage resistance grounded systems.
On and after September 30, 1971, all high-voltage, resistance grounded systems shall include a fail safe ground check circuit or other no less effective device approved by the Secretary to monitor continuously the grounding circuit to assure continuity. The fail safe ground check circuit shall cause the circuit breaker to open when either the ground or ground check wire is broken.
§ 77.803-1
Fail safe ground check circuits; maximum voltage.
The maximum voltage used for ground check circuits under § 77.803 shall not exceed 96 volts.
§ 77.803-2
Ground check systems not employing pilot check wires; approval by the Secretary.
Ground check systems not employing pilot check wires shall be approved by the Secretary only if it is determined that the system includes a fail safe design which will cause the circuit interrupter to open when ground continuity is broken.
§ 77.804
High-voltage trailing cables; minimum design requirements.
(a) High-voltage trailing cables used in resistance grounded systems shall be equipped with metallic shields around each power conductor with one or more ground conductors having a total cross-sectional area of not less than one-half the power conductor, and with an insulated conductor for the ground continuity check circuit. External ground check conductors may be used if they are not smaller than No. 8 (AWG) and have an insulation rated at least 600 volts.
(b) All such high-voltage trailing cables shall be adequate for the intended
current and voltage. Splices made in such cables shall provide continuity of all components.
§ 77.805
Cable couplers and connection boxes; minimum design requirements.
(a)(1) Couplers that are used in medium- or high-voltage power circuits shall be of the three-phase type and enclosed in a full metallic shell, except that the Secretary may permit, under such guidelines as he may prescribe, no less effective couplers constructed of materials other than metal.
(2) Cable couplers shall be adequate for the intended current and voltage.
(3) Cable couplers with any metal exposed shall be grounded to the ground conductor in the cable.
(4) Couplers shall be constructed to cause the ground check continuity conductor to break first and the ground conductor last when being uncoupled when pilot check circuits are used.
(b) Cable connection boxes shall be of substantial construction and designed to guard all energized parts from personal contact.
§ 77.806
Connection of single-phase loads.
Single-phase loads, such as transformer primaries, shall be connected phase to phase in resistance grounded systems.
§ 77.807
Installation of high-voltage transmission cables.
High-voltage transmission cables shall be installed or placed so as to afford protection against damage. They shall be placed to prevent contact with low-voltage or communication circuits.
§ 77.807-1
High-voltage powerlines; clearances above ground.
High-voltage powerlines located above driveways, haulageways, and railroad tracks shall be installed to provide the minimum vertical clearance specified in National Electrical Safety Code:
Provided, however,
That in no event shall any high-voltage powerline be installed less than 15 feet above ground.
§ 77.807-2
Booms and masts; minimum distance from high-voltage lines.
The booms and masts of equipment operated on the surface of any coal mine shall not be operated within 10 feet of an energized overhead powerline. Where the voltage of overhead powerlines is 69,000 volts, or more, the minimum distance from the boom or mast shall be as follows:
Nominal power line voltage (in 1,000 volts)
Minimum distance (feet)
69 to 114
12
115 to 229
15
230 to 344
20
345 to 499
25
500 or more
35
§ 77.807-3
Movement of equipment; minimum distance from high-voltage lines.
When any part of any equipment operated on the surface of any coal mine is required to pass under or by any energized high-voltage powerline and the clearance between such equipment and powerline is less than that specified in § 77.807-2 for booms and masts, such powerlines shall be deenergized or other precautions shall be taken.
§ 77.808
Disconnecting devices.
Disconnecting devices shall be installed at the beginning of each branch line in high-voltage circuits and they shall be equipped or designed in such a manner that it can be determined by visual observation that the circuit is deenergized when such devices are open.
§ 77.809
Identification of circuit breakers and disconnecting switches.
Circuit breakers and disconnecting switches shall be labeled to show which units they control, unless identification can be made readily by location.
§ 77.810
High-voltage equipment; grounding.
Frames, supporting structures, and enclosures of stationary, portable, or mobile high-voltage equipment shall be effectively grounded.
§ 77.811
Movement of portable substations and transformers.
Portable substations and transformers shall be deenergized before they are moved from one location to another.

# Subpart J—Low- and Medium-Voltage Alternating Current Circuits
§ 77.900
Low- and medium-voltage circuits serving portable or mobile three-phase alternating current equipment; circuit breakers.
Low- and medium-voltage circuits supplying power to portable or mobile three-phase alternating current equipment shall be protected by suitable circuit breakers of adequate interrupting capacity which are properly tested and maintained and equipped with devices to provide protection against undervoltage, grounded phase, short circuit, and over-current.
§ 77.900-1
Testing, examination, and maintenance of circuit breakers; procedures.
Circuit breakers protecting low- and medium-voltage circuits serving portable or mobile three-phase alternating current equipment and their auxiliary devices shall be tested and examined at least once each month by a person qualified as provided in § 77.103. In performing such tests, the circuit breaker auxiliaries or control circuits shall be actuated in any manner which causes the circuit breaker to open. All components of the circuit breaker and its auxiliary devices shall be visually examined and such repairs or adjustments as are indicated by such tests and examinations shall be carried out immediately.
§ 77.900-2
Testing, examination, and maintenance of circuit breakers; record.
The operator shall maintain a written record of each test, examination, repair or adjustment of all circuit breakers protecting low- and medium-voltage circuits serving three-phase alternating current equipment and such record shall be kept in a book approved by the Secretary.
§ 77.901
Protection of low- and medium-voltage three-phase circuits.
(a) Low- and medium-voltage circuits supplying power to portable or mobile three-phase alternating equipment shall contain:
(1) Either a direct or derived neutral grounded through a suitable resistor at the power source;
(2) A grounding circuit originating at the grounded side of the grounding resistor which extends along with the power conductors and serves as a grounding conductor for the frames of all the electric equipment supplied power from the circuit.
(b) Grounding resistors, where required, shall be of an ohmic value which limits the ground fault current to no more than 25 amperes. Such grounding resistors shall be rated for maximum fault current continuously and provide insulation from ground for a voltage equal to the phase-to-phase voltage of the system.
(c) Low- and medium-voltage circuits supplying power to three-phase alternating current stationary electric equipment shall comply with the National Electric Code.
§ 77.901-1
Grounding resistor; continuous current rating.
The ground fault current rating of grounding resistors shall meet the “extended time rating” set forth in American Institute of Electrical Engineers Standard No. 32.
§ 77.902
Low- and medium-voltage ground check monitor circuits.
On and after September 30, 1971, three-phase low- and medium-voltage resistance grounded systems to portable and mobile equipment shall include a fail safe ground check circuit or other no less effective device approved by the Secretary to monitor continuously the grounding circuit to assure continuity. The fail safe ground check circuit shall cause the circuit breaker to open when either the ground or pilot check wire is broken. Cable couplers shall be constructed to cause the ground check continuity conductor to break first and the ground conductor last when being uncoupled when pilot check circuits are used.
§ 77.902-1
Fail safe ground check circuits; maximum voltage.
The maximum voltage used for ground check circuits under § 77.902 shall not exceed 40 volts.
§ 77.902-2
Approved ground check systems not employing pilot check wires.
Ground check systems not employing pilot check wires shall be approved by the Secretary only after it has been determined that the system includes a fail safe design causing the circuit breaker to open when ground continuity is broken.
§ 77.902-3
Attachment of ground conductors and ground check wires to equipment frames; use of separate connections.
In grounding the frames of stationary, portable, or mobile equipment receiving power from resistance grounded systems, separate connections shall be used.
§ 77.903
Disconnecting devices.
Disconnecting devices shall be installed in circuits supplying power to portable or mobile equipment and shall provide visual evidence that the power is disconnected.
§ 77.904
Identification of circuit breakers.
Circuit breakers shall be labeled to show which circuits they control unless identification can be made readily by location.
§ 77.905
Connection of single-phase loads.
Single-phase loads shall be connected phase-to-phase in resistance grounded systems.
§ 77.906
Trailing cables supplying power to low-voltage mobile equipment; ground wires and ground check wires.
On and after September 30, 1971, all trailing cables supplying power to portable or mobile equipment from low-voltage three-phase resistance grounded power systems shall contain one or more ground conductors having a cross-sectional area of not less than one-half the power conductor. Such trailing cables shall include an insulated conductor for the ground continuity check circuit except where a no less effective device has been approved by the Secretary to assure continuity. Splices made in low-voltage trailing cables shall provide continuity of all components.

# Subpart K—Ground Control
§ 77.1000
Highwalls, pits and spoil banks; plans.
Each operator shall establish and follow a ground control plan for the safe control of all highwalls, pits and spoil banks to be developed after June 30, 1971, which shall be consistent with prudent engineering design and will insure safe working conditions. The mining methods employed by the operator shall be selected to insure highwall and spoil bank stability.
§ 77.1000-1
Filing of plan.
The operator shall file a copy of such plan, and revisions thereof, with the MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health district office for the district in which the mine is located, and shall identify the name and location of the mine; the Mine Safety and Health Administration identification number if known; and the name and address of the mine operator.
(Pub. L. No. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
))
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995; 71 FR 16669, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 77.1001
Stripping; loose material.
Loose hazardous material shall be stripped for a safe distance from the top of pit or highwalls, and the loose unconsolidated material shall be sloped to the angle of repose, or barriers, baffle boards, screens, or other devices be provided that afford equivalent protection.
§ 77.1002
Box cuts; spoil material placement.
When box cuts are made, necessary precautions shall be taken to minimize the possibility of spoil material rolling into the pit.
§ 77.1003
Benches.
To insure safe operation, the width and height of benches shall be governed by the type of equipment to be used and the operation to be performed.
§ 77.1004
Ground control; inspection and maintenance; general.
(a) Highwalls, banks, benches, and terrain sloping into the working areas shall be examined after every rain, freeze, or thaw before men work in such areas, and such examination shall be made and recorded in accordance with § 77.1713.
(b) Overhanging highwalls and banks shall be taken down and other unsafe ground conditions shall be corrected promptly, or the area shall be posted.
§ 77.1005
Scaling highwalls; general.
(a) Hazardous areas shall be scaled before any other work is performed in the hazardous area. When scaling of highwalls is necessary to correct conditions that are hazardous to persons in the area, a safe means shall be provided for performing such work.
(b) Whenever it becomes necessary for safety to remove hazardous material from highwalls by hand, the hazardous material shall be approached from a safe direction and the material removed from a safe location.
§ 77.1006
Highwalls; men working.
(a) Men, other than those necessary to correct unsafe conditions, shall not work near or under dangerous highwalls or banks.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, men shall not work between equipment and the highwall or spoil bank where the equipment may hinder escape from falls or slides.
(c) Special safety precautions shall be taken when men are required to perform repair work between immobilized equipment and the highwall or spoil bank and such equipment may hinder escape from falls or slides.
§ 77.1007
Drilling; general.
(a) Equipment that is to be used during a shift shall be inspected each shift by a competent person. Equipment defects affecting safety shall be reported.
(b) Equipment defects affecting safety shall be corrected before the equipment is used.
§ 77.1008
Relocation of drills; safeguards.
(a) When a drill is being moved from one drilling area to another, drill steel, tools, and other equipment shall be secured and the mast placed in a safe position.
(b) When a drill helper is used his location shall be made known to the operator at all times when the drill is being moved.
§ 77.1009
Drill; operation.
(a) While in operation drills shall be attended at all times.
(b) Men shall not drill from positions that hinder their access to the control levers, or from insecure footing or staging, or from atop equipment not designed for this purpose.
(c) Men shall not be on a mast while the drill bit is in operation unless a safe platform is provided and safety belts are used.
(d) Drill crews and others shall stay clear of augers or drill stems that are in motion. Persons shall not pass under or step over a moving stem or auger.
(e) In the event of power failure, drill controls shall be placed in the neutral position until power is restored.
(f) When churn drills or vertical rotary drills are used, drillers shall not be permitted to work under suspended tools, and when collaring holes, inspecting, or during any operation in which tools are removed from the hole, all tools shall be lowered to the ground or platform.
§ 77.1010
Collaring holes.
(a) Starter steels shall be used when collaring holes with hand-held drills.
(b) Men shall not hold the drill steel while collaring holes, or rest their hands on the chuck or centralizer while drilling.
§ 77.1011
Drill holes; guarding.
Drill holes large enough to constitute a hazard shall be covered or guarded.
§ 77.1012
Jackhammers; operation; safeguards.
Men operating or working near jackhammers or jackleg drills, or other drilling machines shall position themselves so that they will not be struck or lose their balance if the drill steel breaks or sticks.
§ 77.1013
Air drills; safeguards.
Air shall be turned off and bled from the air hoses before hand-held air drills are moved from one working area to another.

# Subpart L—Fire Protection
§ 77.1100
Fire protection; training and organization.
Firefighting facilities and equipment shall be provided commensurate with the potential fire hazards at each structure, enclosure and other facility (including custom coal preparation) at the mine and the employees at such facilities shall be instructed and trained annually in the use of such firefighting facilities and equipment.
§ 77.1101
Escape and evacuation; plan.
(a) Before September 30, 1971, each operator of a mine shall establish and keep current a specific escape and evacuation plan to be followed in the event of a fire.
(b) All employees shall be instructed on current escape and evacuation plans, fire alarm signals, and applicable procedures to be followed in case of fire.
(c) Plans for escape and evacuation shall include the designation and proper maintenance of adequate means for exit from all areas where persons are required to work or travel including buildings and equipment and in areas where persons normally congregate during the work shift.
(Pub. L. No. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
))
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 36 FR 13143, July 15, 1971; 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 77.1102
Warning signs; smoking and open flame.
Signs warning against smoking and open flames shall be posted so they can be readily seen in areas or places where fire or explosion hazards exist.
§ 77.1103
Flammable liquids; storage.
(a) Flammable liquids shall be stored in accordance with standards of the National Fire Protection Association. Small quantities of flammable liquids drawn from storage shall be kept in properly identified safety cans.
(b) Unburied flammable-liquid storage tanks shall be mounted securely on firm foundations. Outlet piping shall be provided with flexible connections or other special fittings to prevent adverse effects from tank settling.
(c) Fuel lines shall be equipped with valves to cut off fuel at the source and shall be located and maintained to minimize fire hazards.
(d) Areas surrounding flammable-liquid storage tanks and electric substations and transformers shall be kept free from grass (dry), weeds, underbrush, and other combustible materials such as trash, rubbish, leaves and paper, for at least 25 feet in all directions.
§ 77.1104
Accumulations of combustible materials.
Combustible materials, grease, lubricants, paints, or flammable liquids shall not be allowed to accumulate where they can create a fire hazard.
§ 77.1105
Internal combustion engines; fueling.
Internal combustion engines, except diesels, shall be shut off and stopped before being fueled.
§ 77.1106
Battery-charging stations; ventilation.
Battery-charging stations shall be located in well-ventilated areas. Battery-charging stations shall be equipped with reverse current protection where such stations are connected directly to direct current power systems.
§ 77.1107
Belt conveyors.
Belt conveyors in locations where fire would create a hazard to personnel shall be provided with switches to stop the drive pulley automatically in the event of excessive slippage.
§ 77.1108
Firefighting equipment; requirements; general.
On and after September 30, 1971, each operator of a coal mine shall provide an adequate supply of firefighting equipment which is adapted to the size and suitable for use under the conditions present on the surface at the mine.
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 36 FR 13143, July 15, 1971]
§ 77.1108-1
Type and capacity of firefighting equipment.
Firefighting equipment required under this § 77.1108 shall meet the following minimum requirements:
(a)
Waterlines.
Waterlines shall be capable of delivering 50 gallons of water a minute at a nozzle pressure of 50 pounds per square inch. Where storage tanks are used as a source of water supply, the tanks shall be of 1,000-gallon capacity for each 1,000 tons of coal processed (average) per shift.
(b)
Fire extinguishers.
Fire extinguishers shall be:
(1) Of the appropriate type for the particular fire hazard involved;
(2) Adequate in number and size for the particular fire hazard involved;
(3) Replaced immediately with fully charged extinguishers after any discharge is made from an extinguisher; and
(4) Approved by the Underwriter's Laboratories, Inc., or the Factory Mutual Research Corp., or other competent testing agency acceptable to the Mine Safety and Health Administration.
(c)
Fire hose.
Fire hose and couplings shall meet the requirements of the Underwriter's Laboratories, Inc., or Factory Mutual Research Corp.'s specifications. Cotton or cotton-polyester jacketed hose shall be treated in accordance with the U.S. Department of Agriculture Forest Service Specification 182 for mildew resistance. The water pressure at the hose nozzle shall not be excessively high so as to present a hazard to the nozzle operator.
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 47 FR 28096, June 29, 1982]
§ 77.1109
Quantity and location of firefighting equipment.
Preparation plants, dryer plants, tipples, drawoff tunnels, shops, and other surface installations shall be equipped with the following firefighting equipment.
(a) Each structure presenting a fire hazard shall be provided with portable fire extinguishers commensurate with the potential fire hazard at the structure in accordance with the recommendations of the National Fire Protection Association.
(b) Preparation plants shall be equipped with waterlines, with outlet valves on each floor, and with sufficient fire hose to project a water stream to any point in the plant. However, where freezing conditions exist or water is not available, a 125-pound multipurpose dry powder extinguisher may be substituted for the purposes of this paragraph (b) for each 2,500 square feet of floor space in a wooden or other flammable structure, or for each 5,000 square feet of floor space in a metal, concrete-block, or other type of non-flammable construction.
(c)(1) Mobile equipment, including trucks, front-end loaders, bulldozers, portable welding units, and augers, shall be equipped with at least one portable fire extinguisher.
(2) Power shovels, draglines, and other large equipment shall be equipped with at least one portable fire extinguisher; however, additional fire extinguishers may be required by an authorized representative of the Secretary.
(3) Auxiliary equipment such as portable drills, sweepers, and scrapers, when operated more than 600 feet from equipment required to have portable fire extinguishers, shall be equipped with at least one fire extinguisher.
(d) Fire extinguishers shall be provided at permanent electrical installations commensurate with the potential fire hazard at such installation in accordance with the recommendations of the National Fire Protection Association.
(e) Two portable fire extinguishers, or the equivalent, shall be provided at each of the following combustible liquid storage installations:
(1) Near each above ground or unburied combustible liquid storage station; and,
(2) Near the transfer pump of each buried combustible liquid storage tank.
(f) Vehicles transporting explosives and blasting agents shall be equipped with fire protection as recommended in Code 495, section 20, National Fire Protection Association Handbook, 12th Edition, 1962.
§ 77.1110
Examination and maintenance of firefighting equipment.
Firefighting equipment shall be continuously maintained in a usable and operative condition. Fire extinguishers shall be examined at least once every 6 months and the date of such examination shall be recorded on a permanent tag attached to the extinguisher.
(Pub. L. No. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
))
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 77.1111
Welding, cutting, soldering; use of fire extinguisher.
One portable fire extinguisher shall be provided at each location where welding, cutting, or soldering with arc or flame is performed.
§ 77.1112
Welding, cutting, or soldering with arc or flame; safeguards.
(a) When welding, cutting, or soldering with arc or flame near combustible materials, suitable precautions shall be taken to insure that smoldering metal or sparks do not result in a fire.
(b) Before welding, cutting, or soldering is performed in areas likely to contain methane, an examination for methane shall be made by a qualified person with a device approved by the Secretary for detecting methane. Examinations for methane shall be made immediately before and periodically during welding, cutting, or soldering and such work shall not be permitted to commence or continue in air which contains 1.0 volume per centum or more of methane.

# Subpart M—Maps
§ 77.1200
Mine map.
The operator shall maintain an accurate and up-to-date map of the mine, on a scale of not less than 100 nor more than 500 feet to the inch, at or near the mine, in an area chosen by the mine operator, with a duplicate copy on file at a separate and distinct location, to minimize the danger of destruction by fire or other hazard. The map shall show:
(a) Name and address of the mine;
(b) The property or boundary lines of the active areas of the mine;
(c) Contour lines passing through whole number elevations of the coalbed being mined. The spacing of such lines shall not exceed 25-foot elevation levels, except that a broader spacing of contour lines may be approved by the District Manager for steeply pitching coalbeds. Contour lines may be placed on overlays or tracings attached to mine maps.
(d) The general elevation of the coalbed or coalbeds being mined, and the general elevation of the surface;
(e) Either producing or abandoned oil and gas wells located on the mine property;
(f) The location and elevation of any body of water dammed or held back in any portion of the mine:
Provided, however,
Such bodies of water may be shown on overlays or tracings attached to the mine maps;
(g) All prospect drill holes that penetrate the coalbed or coalbeds being mined on the mine property;
(h) All auger and strip mined areas of the coalbed or coalbeds being mined on the mine property together with the line of maximum depth of holes drilled during auger mining operations.
(i) All worked out and abandoned areas;
(j) The location of railroad tracks and public highways leading to the mine, and mine buildings of a permanent nature with identifying names shown;
(k) Underground mine workings underlying and within 1,000 feet of the active areas of the mine;
(l) The location and description of at least two permanent base line points, and the location and description of at
least two permanent elevation bench marks used in connection with establishing or referencing mine elevation surveys; and,
(m) The scale of the map.
§ 77.1201
Certification of mine maps.
Mine maps shall be made or certified by an engineer or surveyor registered by the State in which the mine is located.
§ 77.1202
Availability of mine map.
The mine map maintained in accordance with the provisions of § 77.1200 shall be available for inspection by the Secretary or his authorized representative.

# Subpart N—Explosives and Blasting
§ 77.1300
Explosives and blasting.
(a) No explosives, blasting agent, detonator, or any other related blasting device or material shall be stored, transported, carried, handled, charged, fired, destroyed, or otherwise used, employed or disposed of by any person at a coal mine except in accordance with the provisions of §§ 77.1301 through 77.1304, inclusive.
(b) The term “explosives” as used in this Subpart N includes blasting agents. The standards in this Subpart N in which the term “explosives” appears are applicable to blasting agents (as well as to other explosives) unless blasting agents are expressly excluded.
§ 77.1301
Explosives; magazines.
(a) Detonators and explosives other than blasting agents shall be stored in magazines.
(b) Detonators shall not be stored in the same magazine with explosives.
(c) Magazines other than box type shall be:
(1) Located in accordance with the current American Table of Distances for storage of explosives.
(2) Detached structures located away from powerlines, fuel storage areas, and other possible sources of fire.
(3) Constructed substantially of noncombustible material or covered with fire-resistant material.
(4) Reasonably bullet resistant.
(5) Electrically bonded and grounded if constructed of metal.
(6) Made of nonsparking materials on the inside, including floors.
(7) Provided with adequate and effectively screened ventilation openings near the floor and ceiling.
(8) Kept locked securely when unattended.
(9) Posted with suitable danger signs so located that a bullet passing through the face of a sign will not strike the magazine.
(10) Used exclusively for storage of explosives or detonators and kept free of all extraneous materials.
(11) Kept clean and dry in the interior, and in good repair.
(12) Unheated, unless heated in a manner that does not create a fire or explosion hazard.
(d) Box-type magazines used to store explosives or detonators in work areas shall be constructed with only nonsparking material inside and equipped with covers or doors and shall be located out of the line of blasts.
(e) Secondary and box-type magazines shall be suitably labeled.
(f) Detonator-storage magazines shall be separated by at least 25 feet from explosive-storage magazines.
(g) Cases or boxes containing explosives shall not be stored in magazines on their ends or sides nor stacked more than 6 feet high.
(h) Ammonium nitrate-fuel oil blasting agents shall be physically separated from other explosives, safety fuse, or detonating cord stored in the same magazine and in such a manner that oil does not contaminate the other explosives, safety fuse or detonating cord.
§ 77.1302
Vehicles used to transport explosives.
(a) Vehicles used to transport explosives, other than blasting agents, shall have substantially constructed bodies, no sparking metal exposed in the cargo space, and shall be equipped with suitable sides and tail gates; explosives shall not be piled higher than the side or end.
(b) Vehicles containing explosives or detonators shall be maintained in good condition and shall be operated at a
safe speed and in accordance with all safe operating practices.
(c) Vehicles containing explosives or detonators shall be posted with proper warning signs.
(d) Other materials or supplies shall not be placed on or in the cargo space of a conveyance containing explosives, detonating cord or detonators, except for safety fuse and except for properly secured nonsparking equipment used expressly in the handling of such explosives, detonating cord or detonators.
(e) Explosives and detonators shall be transported in separate vehicles unless separated by 4 inches of hardwood or the equivalent.
(f) Explosives or detonators shall be transported promptly without undue delays in transit.
(g) Explosives or detonators shall be transported at times and over routes that expose a minimum number of persons.
(h) Only the necessary attendants shall ride on or in vehicles containing explosives or detonators.
(i) Vehicles shall be attended, whenever practical and possible, while loaded with explosives or detonators.
(j) When vehicles containing explosives or detonators are parked, the brakes shall be set, the motive power shut off, and the vehicles shall be blocked securely against rolling.
(k) Vehicles containing explosives or detonators shall not be taken to a repair garage or shop for any purpose.
§ 77.1303
Explosives, handling and use.
(a) Persons who use or handle explosives or detonators shall be experienced men who understand the hazards involved; trainees shall do such work only under the supervision of and in the immediate presence of experienced men.
(b) Blasting operations shall be under the direct control of authorized persons.
(c) Substantial nonconductive closed containers shall be used to carry explosives, other than blasting agents to the blasting site.
(d) Damaged or deteriorated explosives or detonators shall be destroyed in a safe manner.
(e) Where electric blasting is to be performed, electric circuits to equipment in the immediate area to be blasted shall be deenergized before explosives or detonators are brought into the area; the power shall not be turned on again until after the shots are fired.
(f) Explosives shall be kept separated from detonators until charging is started.
(g) Areas in which charged holes are awaiting firing shall be guarded, or barricaded and posted, or flagged against unauthorized entry.
(h) Ample warning shall be given before blasts are fired. All persons shall be cleared and removed from the blasting area unless suitable blasting shelters are provided to protect men endangered by concussion or flyrock from blasting.
(i) Lead wires and blasting lines shall not be strung across power conductors, pipelines, railroad tracks, or within 20 feet of bare powerlines. They shall be protected from sources of static or other electrical contact.
(j) For the protection of underground workers, special precautions shall be taken when blasting in close proximity to underground operations, and no blasting shall be done that would be hazardous to persons working underground.
(k) Holes shall not be drilled where there is danger of intersecting a charged or misfired hole.
(l) Only wooden or other nonsparking implements shall be used to punch holes in an explosive cartridge.
(m) Tamping poles shall be blunt and squared at one end and made of wood, nonsparking material, or of special plastic acceptable to the Mine Safety and Health Administration.
(n) Delay connectors for firing detonating cord shall be treated and handled with the same safety precautions as blasting caps and electric detonators.
(o) Capped primers shall be made up at the time of charging and as close to the blasting site as conditions allow.
(p) A capped primer shall be prepared so that the detonator is contained securely and is completely embedded within the explosive cartridge.
(q) No tamping shall be done directly on a capped primer.
(r) Detonating cord shall not be used if it has been kinked, bent, or otherwise handled in such a manner that the train of detonation may be interrupted.
(s) Fuse shall not be used if it has been kinked, bent sharply, or handled roughly in such a manner that the train of deflagration may be interrupted.
(t) Blasting caps shall be crimped to fuses only with implements designed for that specific purpose.
(u) When firing from 1 to 15 blast-holes with safety fuse ignited individually using hand-held lighters, the fuses shall be of such lengths to provide the minimum burning time specified in the following table for a particular size round:
Number of holes in a round
Minimum burning time, minutes
1
2
2 to 5
2
2/3
6 to 10
3
1/3
11 to 15
5
In no case shall any 40-second-per-foot safety fuse less than 36 inches long or any 30-second-per-foot safety fuse less than 48 inches long be used.
(v) The burning rate of the safety fuse in use at any time shall be measured, posted in conspicuous locations, and brought to the attention of all men concerned with blasting.
(w) Electric detonators of different brands shall not be used in the same round.
(x) Adequate priming shall be employed to guard against misfires, increased toxic fumes, and poor performance.
(y) Except when being tested with a blasting galvanometer:
(1) Electric detonators shall be kept shunted until they are being connected to the blasting line or wired into a blasting round.
(2) Wired rounds shall be kept shunted until they are being connected to the blasting line.
(3) Blasting lines shall be kept shunted until immediately before blasting.
(z) Completely wired rounds shall be tested with a blasting galvanometer before connections are made to the blasting line.
(aa) Permanent blasting lines shall be properly supported, insulated, and kept in good repair.
(bb) At least a 5-foot airgap shall be provided between the blasting circuit and the power circuit.
(cc) When instantaneous blasting is performed, the double-trunkline or loop system shall be used in detonating-cord blasting.
(dd) When instantaneous blasting is performed, trunklines, in multiple-row blasts, shall make one or more complete loops, with crossties between loops at intervals of not over 200 feet.
(ee) All detonating cord knots shall be tight and all connections shall be kept at right angles to the trunklines.
(ff) Power sources shall be suitable for the number of electrical detonators to be fired and for the type of circuits used.
(gg) Electric circuits from the blasting switches to the blast area shall not be grounded.
(hh) Safety switches and blasting switches shall be labeled, encased in boxes, and arranged so that the covers of the boxes cannot be closed with the switches in the through-circuit or firing position.
(ii) Blasting switches shall be locked in the open position, except when closed to fire the blast. Lead wires shall not be connected to the blasting switch until the shot is ready to be fired.
(jj) The key or other control to an electrical firing device shall be entrusted only to the person designated to fire the round or rounds.
(kk) If branch circuits are used when blasts are fired from power circuits, safety switches located at safe distances from the blast areas shall be provided in addition to the main blasting switch.
(ll) Misfires shall be reported to the proper supervisor and shall be disposed of safely before any other work is performed in that blasting area.
(mm) When safety fuse has been used, men shall not return to misfired holes for at least 30 minutes.
(nn) When electric blasting caps have been used, men shall not return to misfired holes for at least 15 minutes.
(oo) If explosives are suspected of burning in a hole, all persons in the endangered area shall move to a safe location and no one should return to the hole until the danger has passed, but in no case within 1 hour.
(pp) Blasted areas shall be examined for undetonated explosives after each blast and undetonated explosives found shall be disposed of safely.
(qq) Blasted areas shall not be reentered by any person after firing until such time as concentrations of smoke, dust, or fumes have been reduced to safe limits.
(rr) In secondary blasting, if more than one shot is to be fired at one time, blasting shall be done electrically or with detonating cord.
(ss) Unused explosives and detonators shall be moved to a safe location as soon as charging operations are completed.
(tt) When electric detonators are used, charging shall be stopped immediately when the presence of static electricity or stray currents is detected; the condition shall be remedied before charging is resumed.
(uu) When electric detonators are used, charging shall be suspended and men withdrawn to a safe location upon the approach of an electrical storm.
§ 77.1304
Blasting agents; special provisions.
(a) Sensitized ammonium nitrate blasting agents, and the components thereof prior to mixing, shall be mixed and stored in accordance with the recommendations in Bureau of Mines Information Circular 8179, “Safety Recommendations for Sensitized Ammonium Nitrate Blasting Agents,” or subsequent revisions.
(b) Where pneumatic loading is employed, before any type of blasting operation using blasting agents is put into effect, an evaluation of the potential hazard of static electricity shall be made. Adequate steps, including the grounding and bonding of the conductive parts of pneumatic loading equipment, shall be taken to eliminate the hazard of static electricity before blasting agent use is commenced.
(c) Pneumatic loading equipment shall not be grounded to waterlines, airlines, rails, or the permanent electrical grounding systems.
(d) Hoses used in connection with pneumatic loading machines shall be of the semiconductive type, having a total resistance low enough to permit the dissipation of static electricity and high enough to limit the flow of stray electric currents to a safe level. Wire-countered hose shall not be used because of the potential hazard from stray electric currents.

# Subpart O—Personnel Hoisting
§ 77.1400
Personnel hoists and elevators.
Except as provided in § 77.1430, the sections in this Subpart O apply only to hoists and elevators, together with their appurtenances, that are used for hoisting persons.
(Sec. 101, Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Pub. L. 91-173 as amended by Pub. L. 95-164, 91 Stat. 1291 (30 U.S.C. 811))
[48 FR 53241, Nov. 25, 1983]
§ 77.1401
Automatic controls and brakes.
Hoists and elevators shall be equipped with overspeed, overwind, and automatic stop controls and with brakes capable of stopping the elevator when fully loaded.
§ 77.1402
Rated capacity.
Hoists and elevators shall have rated capacities consistent with the loads handled.
(Sec. 101, Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Pub. L. 91-173 as amended by Pub. L. 95-164, 91 Stat. 1291 (30 U.S.C. 811))
[48 FR 53241, Nov. 25, 1983]
§ 77.1402-1
Maximum load; posting.
The operator shall designate the maximum number of men permitted to ride on each hoist or elevator at one time; this limit shall be posted on each elevator and on each landing.
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971. Redesignated at 48 FR 53241, Nov. 25, 1983]
§ 77.1403
Daily examination of hoisting equipment.
Hoists and elevators shall be examined daily and such examinations shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
(a)
Elevators.
(1) A visual examination of the ropes for wear, broken wires, and corrosion, especially at excessive strain points such as near the attachments and where the rope rests on the sheaves;
(2) An examination of the elevator for loose, missing or defective parts;
(b)
Hoists and elevators.
(1) An examination of the rope fastenings for defects;
(2) An examination of sheaves for broken flanges, defective bearings, rope alignment, and proper lubrication; and
(3) An examination of the automatic controls and brakes required under § 77.1401.
(Sec. 101, Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Pub. L. 91-173 as amended by Pub. L. 95-164, 91 Stat. 1291 (30 U.S.C. 811)
[48 FR 53241, Nov. 25, 1983]
§ 77.1404
Certifications and records of daily examinations.
At the completion of each daily examination required by § 77.1403, the person making the examination shall certify, by signature and date, that the examination has been made. If any unsafe condition is found during the examinations required by § 77.1403, the person conducting the examination shall make a record of the condition and the date. Certifications and records shall be retained for one year.
(Sec. 101, Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Pub. L. 91-173 as amended by Pub. L. 95-164, 91 Stat. 1291 (30 U.S.C. 811))
[48 FR 53241, Nov. 25, 1983, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 77.1405
Operation of hoisting equipment after repairs.
Empty conveyances shall be operated at least one round trip before hoisting persons after any repairs.
(Sec. 101, Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Pub. L. 91-173 as amended by Pub. L. 95-164, 91 Stat. 1291 (30 U.S.C. 811))
[48 FR 53241, Nov. 25, 1983]

# Wire Ropes

# Authority:
Sections 77.1430 through 77.1438 issued under sec. 101, Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Pub. L. 91-173 as amended by Pub. L. 95-164, 91 Stat. 1291 (30 U.S.C. 811).

# Source:
Sections 77.1430 through 77.1438 appear at 48 FR 53241, Nov. 25, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 77.1430
Wire ropes; scope.
(a) Sections 77.1431 through 77.1438 apply to wire ropes in service used to hoist—
(1) Persons in shafts and slopes underground;
(2) Persons with an incline hoist on the surface; or
(3) Loads in shaft or slope development when persons work below suspended loads.
(b) These standards do not apply to wire ropes used for elevators.
§ 77.1431
Minimum rope strength.
At installation, the nominal strength (manufacturer's published catalog strength) of wire ropes used for hoisting shall meet the minimum rope strength values obtained by the following formulas in which “L” equals the maximum suspended rope length in feet:
(a)
Winding drum ropes
(all constructions, including rotation resistant).
For rope lengths less than 3,000 feet:
Minimum Value = Static Load × (7.0−0.001L)
For rope lengths 3,000 feet or greater:
Minimum Value = Static Load × 4.0
(b)
Friction drum ropes.
For rope lengths less than 4,000 feet:
Minimum Value = Static Load × (7.0−0.0005L)
For rope lengths 4,000 feet or greater:
Minimum Value = Static Load × 5.0
(c)
Tail ropes
(balance ropes).
Minimum Value = Weight of Rope × 7.0
[48 FR 53241, Nov. 25, 1983; 48 FR 54975, Dec. 8, 1983]
§ 77.1432
Initial measurement.
After initial rope stretch but before visible wear occurs, the rope diameter of newly installed wire ropes shall be measured at least once in every third interval of active length and the measurements averaged to establish a baseline for subsequent measurements. A record of the measurements and the date shall be made by the person taking the measurements. This record
shall be retained until the rope is retired from service.
[48 FR 53241, Nov. 25, 1983, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 77.1433
Examinations.
(a) At least once every fourteen calendar days, each wire rope in service shall be visually examined along its entire active length for visible structural damage, corrosion, and improper lubrication or dressing. In addition, visual examination for wear and broken wires shall be made at stress points, including the area near attachments, where the rope rests on sheaves, where the rope leaves the drum, at drum crossovers, and at change-of-layer regions. When any visible condition that results in a reduction of rope strength is present, the affected portion of the rope shall be examined on a daily basis.
(b) Before any person is hoisted with a newly installed wire rope or any wire rope that has not been examined in the previous fourteen calendar days, the wire rope shall be examined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) At least once every six months, nondestructive tests shall be conducted of the active length of the rope, or rope diameter measurements shall be made—
(1) Wherever wear is evident;
(2) Where the hoist rope rests on sheaves at regular stopping points;
(3) Where the hoist rope leaves the drum at regular stopping points; and
(4) At drum crossover and change-of-layer regions.
(d) At the completion of each examination required by paragraph (a) of this section, the person making the examination shall certify, by signature and date, that the examination has been made. If any condition listed in paragraph (a) of this standard is present, the person conducting the examination shall make a record of the condition and the date. Certifications and records of examinations shall be retained for one year.
(e) The person making the measurements or nondestructive tests as required by paragraph (c) of this section shall record the measurements or test results and the date. This record shall be retained until the rope is retired from service.
[48 FR 53241, Nov. 25, 1983; 48 FR 54975, Dec. 8, 1983, 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 77.1434
Retirement criteria.
Unless damage or deterioration is removed by cutoff, wire ropes shall be removed from service when any of the following conditions occurs:
(a) The number of broken wires within a rope lay length, excluding filler wires, exceeds either—
(1) Five percent of the total number of wires; or
(2) Fifteen percent of the total number of wires within any strand;
(b) On a regular lay rope, more than one broken wire in the valley between strands in one rope lay length;
(c) A loss of more than one-third of the original diameter of the outer wires;
(d) Rope deterioration from corrosion;
(e) Distortion of the rope structure;
(f) Heat damage from any source;
(g) Diameter reduction due to wear that exceeds six percent of the baseline diameter measurement; or
(h) Loss of more than ten percent of rope strength as determined by nondestructive testing.
§ 77.1435
Load end attachments.
(a) Wire rope shall be attached to the load by a method that develops at least 80 percent of the nominal strength of the rope.
(b) Except for terminations where use of other materials is a design feature, zinc (spelter) shall be used for socketing wire ropes. Design feature means either the manufacturer's original design or a design approved by a registered professional engineer.
(c) Load end attachment methods using splices are prohibited.
§ 77.1436
Drum end attachment.
(a) For drum end attachment, wire rope shall be attached—
(1) Securely by clips after making one full turn around the drum spoke;
(2) Securely by clips after making one full turn around the shaft, if the drum is fixed to the shaft; or
(3) By properly assembled anchor bolts, clamps, or wedges, provided that
the attachment is a design feature of the hoist drum. Design feature means either the manufacturer's original design or a design approved by a registered professional engineer.
(b) A minimum of three full turns of wire rope shall be on the drum when the rope is extended to its maximum working length.
§ 77.1437
End attachment retermination.
Damaged or deteriorated wire rope shall be removed by cutoff and the rope reterminated where there is—
(a) More than one broken wire at an attachment;
(b) Improper installation of an attachment;
(c) Slippage at an attachment; or
(d) Evidence of deterioration from corrosion at an attachment.
§ 77.1438
End attachment replacement.
Wire rope attachments shall be replaced when cracked, deformed, or excessively worn.

# Subpart P—Auger Mining
§ 77.1500
Auger mining; planning.
Auger mining shall be planned and conducted by the operator to insure against any hazard to underground workings located at or near such auger operations and all auger holes shall be located so as to prevent:
(a) The disruption of the ventilation system of any active underground mine;
(b) Inundation hazards from surface water entering any active underground mine;
(c) Damage to the roof and ribs of active underground workings; and
(d) Intersection of auger holes with underground mine workings known to contain dangerous quantities of impounded water.
§ 77.1501
Auger mining; inspections.
(a) The face of all highwalls, to a distance of 25 feet on both sides of each drilling site, shall be inspected by a certified person before any augering operation is begun, and at least once during each coal producing shift and all loose material shall be removed from the drilling site before persons are permitted to enter the drilling area. The results of all such inspections shall be recorded daily in a book approved by the Secretary.
(b) In addition, the face of all highwalls, to a distance of 25 feet on both sides of each drilling site, shall be inspected frequently by a certified person during any auger operation conducted either during or after a heavy rainfall or during any period of intermittent freezing and thawing and the results of such inspections shall be recorded as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) When an auger hole penetrates an abandoned or mined out area of an underground mine, tests for methane and oxygen deficiency shall be made at the collar of the hole by a qualified person using devices approved by the Secretary to determine if dangerous quantities of methane or oxygen-deficient air are present or being emitted. If such is found no further work shall be performed until the atmosphere has been made safe.
(d) Tests for oxygen deficiency shall be conducted with a permissible flame safety lamp or other means approved by the Secretary and all tests for methane shall be conducted with a methane detector approved by the Secretary.
(e) Internal combustion engines shall not be operated in the vicinity of any auger hole in which tests for methane or oxygen deficiency are being made.
§ 77.1502
Auger holes; restriction against entering.
No person shall be permitted to enter an auger hole except with the approval of the MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Manager of the district in which the mine is located and under such conditions as may be prescribed by such managers.
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 71 FR 16669, Apr. 3, 2006]
§ 77.1503
Augering equipment; overhead protection.
(a) Auger machines which are exposed to highwall hazards, together with all those parts of any coal elevating conveyors where persons are required to work during augering operations, shall be covered with heavy
gage screen which does not obstruct the view of the highwall and is strong enough to prevent injuries to workmen from falling material.
(b) No work shall be done under any overhang and, when a crew is engaged in connecting or disconnecting auger sections under a highwall, at least one person shall be assigned to observe the highwall for possible movement.
§ 77.1504
Auger equipment; operation.
(a) Persons shall be kept clear of the auger train while it is in motion and shall not be permitted to pass under or over an auger train, except where adequate crossing facilities are provided.
(b) Persons shall be kept clear of auger sections being swung into position.
(c) No person, including the auger machine operator, shall, where practicable, be stationed in direct line with a borehole during augering operations.
(d) Operator of auger equipment shall not leave the controls of such equipment while the auger is in operation.
(e) Adequate illumination shall be provided for work areas after dark.
§ 77.1505
Auger holes; blocking.
Auger holes shall be blocked with highwall spoil or other suitable material before they are abandoned.

# Subpart Q—Loading and Haulage
§ 77.1600
Loading and haulage; general.
(a) Only authorized persons shall be permitted on haulage roads and at loading or dumping locations.
(b) Traffic rules, signals, and warning signs shall be standardized at each mine and posted.
(c) Where side or overhead clearances on any haulage road or at any loading or dumping location at the mine are hazardous to mine workers, such areas shall be conspicuously marked and warning devices shall be installed when necessary to insure the safety of the workers.
§ 77.1601
Transportation of persons; restrictions.
No person shall be permitted to ride or be otherwise transported on or in the following equipment whether loaded or empty:
(a) Dippers, shovels, buckets, forks, and clamshells;
(b) The cargo space of dump trucks or haulage equipment used to transport coal or other material;
(c) Outside the cabs and beds of mobile equipment;
(d) Chain, belt, or bucket conveyors, except where such conveyors are specifically designed to transport persons; and
(e) Loaded buckets on aerial tramways.
§ 77.1602
Use of aerial tramways to transport persons.
Persons other than maintenance men shall not ride empty buckets on aerial tramways unless the following features are provided:
(a) Two independent brakes, each capable of holding the maximum load.
(b) Direct communication between terminals.
(c) Power drives with emergency power available in case of primary power failure.
(d) Buckets equipped with positive locks to prevent accidental tripping or dumping.
§ 77.1603
Trains and locomotives; authorized persons.
(a) Only authorized persons shall be permitted to ride on trains or locomotives and they shall ride in a safe position.
(b) Men shall not get on or off moving equipment, except that trainmen may get on or off of slowly moving trains.
§ 77.1604
Transportation of persons; overcrowding.
(a) No man-trip vehicle or other conveyance used to transport persons to and from work areas at surface coal mines shall be overcrowded and all persons shall ride in a safe position.
(b) Supplies, materials, and tools other than small handtools shall not be transported with men in man-trip vehicles unless such vehicles are specifically designed to make such transportation safe.
§ 77.1605
Loading and haulage equipment; installations.
(a) Cab windows shall be of safety glass or equivalent, in good condition and shall be kept clean.
(b) Mobile equipment shall be equipped with adequate brakes, and all trucks and front-end loaders shall also be equipped with parking brakes.
(c) Positive-action type brakes shall be provided on aerial tramways.
(d) Mobile equipment shall be provided with audible warning devices. Lights shall be provided on both ends when required.
(e) Guard nets or other suitable protection shall be provided where tramways pass over roadways, walkways, or buildings.
(f) Guards shall be installed to prevent swaying buckets from hitting towers.
(g) Aerial tramway cable connections shall be designed to offer minimum obstruction to the passage of wheels.
(h) Rocker-bottom or bottom-dump cars shall be equipped with positive locking devices, or other suitable devices.
(i) Ramps and dumps shall be of solid construction, of ample width, have ample clearance and headroom, and be kept reasonably free of spillage.
(j) Chute-loading installations shall be designed so that the men pulling chutes are not required to be in a hazardous position during loading operations.
(k) Berms or guards shall be provided on the outer bank of elevated roadways.
(l) Berms, bumper blocks, safety hooks, or similar means shall be provided to prevent overtravel and overturning at dumping locations.
(m) Roadbeds, rails, joints, switches, frogs, and other elements on railroads shall be designed, installed, and maintained in a safe manner consistent with the speed and type of haulage.
(n) Where practicable, a minimum of 30 inches continuous clearance from the farthest projection of moving railroad equipment shall be provided on at least one side of the tracks; all places where it is not possible to provide 30-inch clearance shall be marked conspicuously.
(o) Track guardrails, lead rails, and frogs shall be protected or blocked so as to prevent a person's foot from becoming wedged.
(p) Positive-acting stop-blocks, derail devices, track skates, or other adequate means shall be installed wherever necessary to protect persons from runaway or moving railroad equipment.
(q) Switch throws shall be installed so as to provide adequate clearance for switchmen.
(r) Where necessary, bumper blocks or the equivalent shall be provided at all track dead ends.
§ 77.1606
Loading and haulage equipment; inspection and maintenance.
(a) Mobile loading and haulage equipment shall be inspected by a competent person before such equipment is placed in operation. Equipment defects affecting safety shall be recorded and reported to the mine operator.
(b) Carriers on aerial tramways, including loading and unloading mechanisms, shall be inspected each shift; brakes shall be inspected daily; ropes and supports shall be inspected as recommended by the manufacturer or as physical conditions warrant. Equipment defects affecting safety shall be reported to the mine operator.
(c) Equipment defects affecting safety shall be corrected before the equipment is used.
§ 77.1607
Loading and haulage equipment; operation.
(a) Vehicles shall follow at a safe distance; passing shall be limited to areas of adequate clearance and visibility.
(b) Mobile equipment operators shall have full control of the equipment while it is in motion.
(c) Equipment operating speeds shall be prudent and consistent with conditions of roadway, grades, clearance, visibility, traffic, and the type of equipment used.
(d) Cabs of mobile equipment shall be kept free of extraneous materials.
(e) Operators shall sit facing the direction of travel while operating equipment with dual controls.
(f) When an equipment operator is present, men shall notify him before getting on or off equipment.
(g) Equipment operators shall be certain, by signal or other means, that all persons are clear before starting or moving equipment.
(h) Where possible, aerial tramways shall not be started until the tramway operator has ascertained that everyone is in the clear.
(i) Dust control measures shall be taken where dust significantly reduces visibility of equipment operators.
(j) Dippers, buckets, loading booms, or heavy suspended loads shall not be swung over the cabs of haulage vehicles until the drivers are out of the cabs and in safe locations, unless the trucks are designed specifically to protect the drivers from falling material.
(k) Men shall not work or pass under the buckets or booms of loaders in operation.
(l) Tires shall be deflated before repairs on them are started and adequate means shall be provided to prevent wheel locking rims from creating a hazard during tire inflation.
(m) Electrically powered mobile equipment shall not be left unattended unless the master switch is in the off position, all operating controls are in the neutral position, and the brakes are set or other equivalent precautions are taken against rolling.
(n) Mobile equipment shall not be left unattended unless the brakes are set. The wheels shall be turned into a bank or berm, or shall be blocked, when such equipment is parked on a grade.
(o) Lights, flares, or other warning devices shall be posted when parked equipment creates a hazard to vehicular traffic.
(p) Dippers, buckets, scraper blades, and similar movable parts shall be secured or lowered to the ground when not in use.
(q) Shovel trailing cables shall not be moved with the shovel dipper unless cable slings or sleds are used.
(r) Equipment which is to be hauled shall be loaded and protected so as to prevent sliding or spillage.
(s) When moving between work areas, the equipment shall be secured in the travel position.
(t) Any load extending more than 4 feet beyond the rear of the vehicle body should be marked clearly with a red flag by day and a red light at night.
(u) Tow bars shall be used to tow heavy equipment and a safety chain shall be used in conjunction with each tow bar.
(v) Railroad cars shall be kept under control at all times by the car dropper. Cars shall be dropped at a safe rate and in a manner that will insure that the car dropper maintains a safe position while working and traveling around the cars.
(w) Railroad cars shall not be coupled or uncoupled manually from the inside of curves unless the railroad and cars are so designed to eliminate any hazard from coupling or uncoupling cars from inside of curves.
(x) Persons shall wear safety belts when dropping railroad cars.
(y) Railcars shall not be left on sidetracks unless ample clearance is provided for traffic on adjacent tracks.
(z) Parked railcars, unless held effectively by brakes, shall be blocked securely.
(aa) Railroad cars and all trucks shall be trimmed properly when they have been loaded higher than the confines of their cargo space.
(bb) When the entire length of a conveyor is visible from the starting switch, the operator shall visually check to make certain that all persons are in the clear before starting the conveyor. When the entire length of the conveyor is not visible from the starting switch, a positive audible or visible warning system shall be installed and operated to warn persons that the conveyor will be started.
(cc) Unguarded conveyors with walkways shall be equipped with emergency stop devices or cords along their full length.
(dd) Adequate backstops or brakes shall be installed on inclined-conveyor drive units to prevent conveyors from running in reverse if a hazard to personnel would be caused.
(ee) Aerial tram conveyor buckets shall not be overloaded, and feed shall be regulated to prevent spillage.
§ 77.1608
Dumping facilities.
(a) Dumping locations and haulage roads shall be kept reasonably free of water, debris, and spillage.
(b) Where the ground at a dumping place may fail to support the weight of a loaded dump truck, trucks shall be dumped a safe distance back from the edge of the bank.
(c) Adequate protection shall be provided at dumping locations where persons may be endangered by falling material.
(d) Grizzlies, grates, and other sizing devices at dump and transfer points shall be anchored securely in place.
(e) If truck spotters are used, they shall be well in the clear while trucks are backing into dumping position and dumping; lights shall be used at night to direct trucks.

# Subpart R—Miscellaneous
§ 77.1700
Communications in work areas.
No employee shall be assigned, or allowed, or be required to perform work alone in any area where hazardous conditions exist that would endanger his safety unless he can communicate with others, can be heard, or can be seen.
§ 77.1701
Emergency communications; requirements.
(a) Each operator of a surface coal mine shall establish and maintain a communication system from the mine to the nearest point of medical assistance for use in an emergency.
(b) The emergency communication system required to be maintained under paragraph (a) of this section may be established by telephone or radio transmission or by any other means of prompt communication to any facility (for example, the local sheriff, the State highway patrol, or local hospital) which has available the means of communication with the person or persons providing emergency medical assistance or transportation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 77.1702
Arrangements for emergency medical assistance and transportation for injured persons; reporting requirements; posting requirements.
(a) Each operator of a surface coal mine shall make arrangements with a licensed physician, medical service, medical clinic, or hospital to provide 24-hour emergency medical assistance for any person injured at the mine.
(b) Each operator shall make arrangements with an ambulance service, or otherwise provide for 24-hour emergency transportation for any person injured at the mine.
(c) Each operator shall, on or before September 30, 1971, report to the Coal Mine Health and Safety District Manager for the district in which the mine is located the name, title and address of the physician, medical service, medical clinic, hospital, or ambulance service with whom arrangements have been made, or otherwise provided, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d) Each operator shall, within 10 days after any change of the arrangements required to be reported under the provisions of this section, report such changes to the Coal Mine Health and Safety District Manager. If such changes involve a substitution of persons, the operator shall provide the name, title, and address of the person substituted together with the name and address of the medical service, medical clinic, hospital, or ambulance service with which such person or persons are associated.
(e) Each operator shall, immediately after making an arrangement required under the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, or immediately after any change, of such agreement, post at appropriate places at the mine the names, titles, addresses, and telephone numbers of all persons or services currently available under such arrangements to provide medical assistance and transportation at the mine.
(Pub. L. No. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
))
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 36 FR 13143, July 15, 1971; 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 77.1703
First-Aid training; supervisory employees.
The mine operator shall conduct first-aid training courses for selected supervisory employees at the mine. Within 60 days after the selection of a new supervisory employee to be so trained, the mine operator shall certify by signature and date the name of the
employee and date on which the employee satisfactorily completed the first-aid training course. The certification shall be kept at the mine and made available on request to an authorized representative of the Secretary.
[56 FR 1478, Jan. 14, 1991]
§ 77.1704
First aid training program; availability of instruction to all miners.
On or before December 30, 1971, each operator of a surface coal mine shall make available to all miners employed in the mine a course of instruction in first aid conducted by the operator or under the auspices of the operator, and such a course of instruction shall be made available to newly employed miners within 6 months after the date of employment.
§ 77.1705
First aid training program; retraining of supervisory employees; availability to all miners.
Beginning January 1, 1972, each operator of a surface coal mine shall conduct refresher first aid training programs each calendar year for all selected supervisory employees and make available refresher first aid training courses to all miners employed in the mine.
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 36 FR 13143, July 15, 1971]
§ 77.1706
First aid training program; minimum requirements.
(a) All first aid training programs required under the provisions of §§ 77.1703 and 77.1704 shall include 10 class hours of training in a course of instruction similar to that outlined in “First Aid, A Bureau of Mines Instruction Manual.”
(b) Refresher first aid training programs required under the provisions of § 77.1705 shall include 5 class hours of refresher training in a course of instruction similar to that outlined in “First Aid, A Bureau of Mines Instruction Manual.”
§ 77.1707
First aid equipment; location; minimum requirements.
(a) Each operator of a surface coal mine shall maintain a supply of the first aid equipment set forth in paragraph (b) of this section at or near each working place where coal is being mined, at each preparation plant and at shops and other surface installation where ten or more persons are regularly employed.
(b) The first aid equipment required to be maintained under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall include at least the following:
(1) One stretcher;
(2) One broken-back board (if a splint-stretcher combination is used it will satisfy the requirements of both paragraph (b) (1) of this section and this paragraph (b) (2));
(3) Twenty-four triangular bandages (15 if a splint-stretcher combination is used);
(4) Eight 4-inch bandage compresses;
(5) Eight 2-inch bandage compresses;
(6) Twelve 1-inch adhesive compresses;
(7) An approved burn remedy;
(8) Two cloth blankets;
(9) One rubber blanket or equivalent substitute;
(10) Two tourniquets;
(11) One 1-ounce bottle of aromatic spirits of ammonia or 1 dozen ammonia ampules; and,
(12) The necessary complements of arm and leg splints or two each inflatable plastic arm and leg splints.
(c) All first aid supplies required to be maintained under the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be stored in suitable, sanitary, dust tight, moisture proof containers and such supplies shall be accessible to the miners.
§ 77.1708
Safety program; instruction of persons employed at the mine.
On or before September 30, 1971, each operator of a surface coal mine shall establish and maintain a program of instruction with respect to the safety regulations and procedures to be followed at the mine and shall publish and distribute to each employee, and post in conspicuous places throughout the mine, all such safety regulations and procedures established in accordance with the provisions of this section.
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 36 FR 13143, July 15, 1971]
§ 77.1710
Protective clothing; requirements.
Each employee working in a surface coal mine or in the surface work areas of an underground coal mine shall be required to wear protective clothing and devices as indicated below:
(a) Protective clothing or equipment and face-shields or goggles shall be worn when welding, cutting, or working with molten metal or when other hazards to the eyes exist.
(b) Suitable protective clothing to cover the entire body when handling corrosive or toxic substances or other materials which might cause injury to the skin.
(c) Protective gloves when handling materials or performing work which might cause injury to the hands; however, gloves shall not be worn where they would create a greater hazard by becoming entangled in the moving parts of equipment.
(d) A suitable hard hat or hard cap when in or around a mine or plant where falling objects may create a hazard. If a hard hat or hard cap is painted, nonmetallic based paint shall be used.
(e) Suitable protective footwear.
(f) Snug-fitting clothing when working around moving machinery or equipment.
(g) Safety belts and lines where there is danger of falling; a second person shall tend the lifeline when bins, tanks, or other dangerous areas are entered.
(h) Lifejackets or belts where there is danger from falling into water.
(i) Seatbelts in a vehicle where there is a danger of overturning and where roll protection is provided.
(Sec. 101(a), Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as amended (83 Stat. 745; 30 U.S.C. 811(a))
[36 FR 9382, May 22, 1971, as amended at 36 FR 13143, July 15, 1971; 39 FR 7176, Feb. 25, 1974]
§ 77.1710-1
Distinctively colored hard hats or hard caps; identification for newly employed, inexperienced miners.
Hard hats or hard caps distinctively different in color from those worn by experienced miners shall be worn at all times by each newly employed, inexperienced miner when working in or around a mine or plant for at least one year from the date of his initial employment as a miner or until he has been qualified or certified as a miner by the State in which he is employed.
(Sec. 101(a), Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as amended (83 Stat. 745; 30 U.S.C. 811(a))
[39 FR 7176, Feb. 25, 1974]
§ 77.1711
Smoking prohibition.
No person shall smoke or use an open flame where such practice may cause a fire or explosion.
§ 77.1712
Reopening mines; notification; inspection prior to mining.
Prior to reopening any surface coal mine after it has been abandoned or declared inactive by the operator, the operator shall notify the Coal Mine Health and Safety District Manager for the district in which the mine is located, and an inspection of the entire mine shall be completed by an authorized representative of the Secretary before any mining operations in such mine are instituted.
§ 77.1713
Daily inspection of surface coal mine; certified person; reports of inspection.
(a) At least once during each working shift, or more often if necessary for safety, each active working area and each active surface installation shall be examined by a certified person designated by the operator to conduct such examinations for hazardous conditions and any hazardous conditions noted during such examinations shall be reported to the operator and shall be corrected by the operator.
(b) If any hazardous condition noted during an examination conducted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section creates an imminent danger, the person conducting such examination shall notify the operator and the operator shall withdraw all persons from the area affected, except those persons referred to in section 104(d) of the Act, until the danger is abated.
(c) After each examination conducted in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, each certified person who conducted all or any part of the examination required shall enter with ink or indelible pencil in a
book approved by the Secretary the date and a report of the condition of the mine or any area of the mine which he has inspected together with a report of the nature and location of any hazardous condition found to be present at the mine. The book in which such entries are made shall be kept in an area at the mine designated by the operator to minimize the danger of destruction by fire or other hazard.
(d) All examination reports recorded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section shall include a report of the action taken to abate hazardous conditions and shall be signed or countersigned each day by at least one of the following persons:
(1) The surface mine foreman;
(2) The assistant superintendent of the mine;
(3) The superintendent of the mine;
(4) The person designated by the operator as responsible for health and safety at the mine; or,
(5) An equivalent mine official.
(Pub. L. No. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
))
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995; 63 FR 58613, Oct. 30, 1998]

# Subpart S—Trolley Wires and Trolley Feeder Wires
§ 77.1800
Cutout switches.
Trolley wires and trolley feeder wires shall be provided with cutout switches at intervals of not more than 2,000 feet and near the beginning of all branch lines.
§ 77.1801
Overcurrent protection.
Trolley wires and trolley feeder wires shall be provided with overcurrent protection.
§ 77.1801-1
Devices for overcurrent protection.
Automatic circuit interrupting devices that will deenergize the affected circuit upon occurrence of a short circuit at any point in the system will meet the requirements of § 77.1801.
§ 77.1802
Insulation of trolley wires, trolley feeder wires and bare signal wires; guarding of trolley wires and trolley feeder wires.
Trolley wires, trolley feeder wires, and bare signal wires shall be adequately guarded:
(a) At all points where men are required to work or pass regularly under the wires; and
(b) At man-trip stations.
The Secretary or his authorized representative shall specify other conditions where trolley wires and trolley feeder wires shall be adequately protected to prevent contact by any person, or shall require the use of improved methods to prevent such contact. Temporary guards shall be provided where trackmen and other persons are required to work in proximity to trolley wires and trolley feeder wires.

# Subpart T—Slope and Shaft Sinking
§ 77.1900
Slopes and shafts; approval of plans.
(a) Each operator of a coal mine shall prepare and submit for approval by the Coal Mine Health and Safety District Manager for the district in which the mine is located, a plan providing for the safety of workmen in each slope or shaft that is commenced or extended after June 30, 1971. The plan shall be consistent with prudent engineering design. The methods employed by the operator shall be selected to minimize the hazards to those employed in the initial or subsequent development of any such slope or shaft, and the plan shall include the following:
(1) The name and location of the mine, and the Mine Safety and Health Administration mine identification number, if known;
(2) The name and address of the mine operator;
(3) A description of the construction work and methods to be used in the construction of the slope or shaft, and whether part or all of the work will be performed by a contractor and a description of that part of the work to be performed by a contractor;
(4) The elevation, depth and dimensions of the slope or shaft;
(5) The location and elevation of the coalbed;
(6) The general characteristics of the strata through which the slope or shaft will be developed;
(7) The type of equipment which the operator proposes to use when the work is to be performed by the operator. When work is to be performed by a contractor the operator shall, as soon as known to him, supplement the plan with a description of the type of equipment to be used by the contractor;
(8) The system of ventilation to be used; and
(9) Safeguards for the prevention of caving during excavation.
(Pub. L. No. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
))
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 47 FR 28096, June 29, 1982; 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 77.1900-1
Compliance with approved slope and shaft sinking plans.
Upon approval by the Coal Mine Health and Safety District Manager of a slope or shaft sinking plan, the operator shall adopt and comply with such plan.
§ 77.1901
Preshift and onshift inspections; reports.
(a) Examinations of slope and shaft areas shall be made by a certified person for hazardous conditions, including tests for methane and oxygen deficiency:
(1) Within 90 minutes before each shift;
(2) At least once on any shift during which men are employed inside any slope or shaft during development; and
(3) Both before and after blasting.
(b) The surface area surrounding each slope and shaft shall be inspected by a certified person and all hazards in the vicinity shall be corrected before men are permitted to enter the excavation.
(c) All hazards found during any preshift or onshift inspection shall be corrected before men are allowed to enter, or continue to work in such slope or shaft. If hazardous conditions cannot be corrected, or excessive methane concentrations cannot be diluted, the excavation shall be vacated and no person shall be permitted to reenter the slope or shaft to continue excavation operations until the hazardous condition has been abated.
(d) No work shall be performed in any slope or shaft, no drilling equipment shall be started, and no electrical equipment shall be energized if the methane content in such slope or shaft is 1.0 volume per centum, or more.
(e) Nothing in this § 77.1901 shall prevent the specific assignment of men in the slope or shaft for purposes of abating excessive methane concentrations or any other hazardous condition.
(f) The results of all inspections conducted in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall be recorded in a book approved by the Secretary.
(Pub. L. No. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
))
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 77.1901-1
Methane and oxygen deficiency tests; approved devices.
Tests for oxygen deficiency shall be made with a permissible flame safety lamp or other means approved by the Secretary, and tests for methane shall be made with a methane detector approved by the Secretary.
§ 77.1902
Drilling and mucking operations.
Diesel-powered equipment used in the drilling, mucking, or other excavation of any slope or shaft shall be permissible, and such equipment shall be operated in a permissible manner and shall be maintained in a permissible condition.
§ 77.1902-1
Permissible diesel-powered equipment.
Diesel-powered equipment which has been approved by the Bureau of Mines or the Mine Safety and Health Administration under Part 36 of this chapter (Bureau of Mines Schedule 31) is permissible under the provisions of this section.
§ 77.1903
Hoists and hoisting; minimum requirements.
(a) Hoists used in transporting persons and material during drilling, mucking, or other excavating operations in any slope or shaft shall have
rated capacities consistent with the loads to be handled.
(b) Each hoist used in drilling, mucking, or other excavating operations shall be equipped with an accurate and reliable indicator of the position of the cage, platform, or bucket. The indicator shall be installed in clear view of the hoist operator.
(Sec. 101, Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Pub. L. 91-173 as amended by Pub. L. 95-164, 91 Stat. 1291 (30 U.S.C. 811))
[48 FR 53242, Nov. 25, 1983; 48 FR 54975, Dec. 8, 1983]
§ 77.1904
Communications between slope and shaft bottoms and hoist operators.
(a) Two independent means of signaling shall be provided between the hoistman and all points in a slope or shaft where men are required to work. At least one of these means shall be audible to the hoistman. Signal codes used in any communication system shall be posted conspicuously at each slope and shaft.
(b) Signaling systems used for communication between slopes and shafts and the hoistman shall be tested daily.
§ 77.1905
Hoist safeguards; general.
(a) Hoists used to transport persons shall be equipped with brakes capable of stopping and holding the cage, bucket, platform, or other device when fully loaded.
(b) When persons are transported by a hoist, a second person familiar with and qualified to stop the hoist shall be in attendance, except where the hoist is fully equipped with overspeed, overwind, and automatic stop devices.
§ 77.1906
Hoists; daily inspection.
(a) Hoists used to transport persons shall be inspected daily. The inspection shall include examination of the headgear (headframe, sheave wheels, etc.), connections, links and chains, and other facilities.
(b) Prior to each working shift, and before a hoist is returned to service after it has been out of normal service for any reason, the hoist shall be run by the hoist operator through one complete cycle of operation before any person is permitted to be transported.
(c) At the completion of each daily examination required by paragraph (a) of this section, the person making the examination shall certify, by signature and date, that the examination has been made. If any unsafe condition in the hoisting equipment is present, the person conducting the examination shall make a record of the condition and the date. Certifications and records shall be retained for one year.
(Sec. 101, Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Pub. L. 91-173 as amended by Pub. L. 95-164, 91 Stat. 1291 (30 U.S.C. 811))
[48 FR 53242, Nov. 25, 1983, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 77.1907
Hoist construction; general.
If hooks are used to attach cages or buckets to the socket or thimble of a hoisting rope, the hooks shall be self-closing.
(Sec. 101, Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Pub. L. 91-173 as amended by Pub. L. 95-164, 91 Stat. 1291 (30 U.S.C. 811))
[48 FR 53242, Nov. 25, 1983]
§ 77.1908
Hoist installations; use.
(a) Where men are transported by means of a hoist and the depth of the shaft exceeds 50 feet, the hoist rope shall be suspended from a substantial hoisting installation which shall be high enough to provide working clearance between the bottom of the sheave and the top of the cage or bucket.
(b) Where men are transported by means of a hoist and the depth of the shaft exceeds 100 feet, temporary shaft guides and guide attachments, or other no less effective means, shall be installed to prevent the cage, platform, or bucket from swinging.
(c) All guides and guide attachments, or other no less effective means, installed in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section shall be maintained to a depth of not less than 75 feet from the bottom of the shaft.
(d) Where crossheads are used, the cage, platform, or bucket shall not be hung more than 10 feet below the crosshead.
(e) Where men are required to embark or disembark from a cage, platform or bucket suspended over or within a shaft, a loading platform shall be installed to insure safe footing.
(f) During the development of each slope or shaft, either a ladder or independently powered auxiliary hoist shall be provided to permit men to escape quickly in the event of an emergency.
(g) No person shall be permitted to ride the rim of any bucket or on the top of a loaded bucket.
(h) The number of persons permitted to ride in cages, skips, or buckets shall be limited so as to prevent overcrowding.
(i) Persons shall not be permitted to ride on a cage, skip, or bucket with tools or materials, except when necessary to handle equipment while in transit. Materials shall be secured to prevent shifting while being hoisted.
(j) The speed of buckets transporting persons shall not exceed 500 feet per minute and not more than 200 feet per minute when within 100 feet of any stop.
(k) A notice of established speeds shall be posted in clear view of the hoistman.
(l) Conveyances being lowered in a shaft in which men are working shall be stopped at least 15 feet above such men and shall be lowered further only after the hoistman has received a signal that all men who may be endangered by the conveyance are in the clear.
(m) No skip or bucket shall be raised or lowered in a slope or shaft until it has been trimmed to prevent material from falling back down the slope or shaft.
(n) Measures shall be taken to prevent material from falling back into the shaft while buckets or other conveyances are being unloaded.
(o) Properly attached safety belts shall be worn by all persons required to work in or over any shaft where there is a drop of 10 or more feet, unless other acceptable means are provided to prevent such persons from falling into the shaft.
§ 77.1908-1
Hoist operation; qualified hoistman.
Hoists shall be under the control of and operated by a qualified hoistman when men are in a slope or shaft.
§ 77.1909
Explosives and blasting; use of permissible explosives and shot-firing units.
Except as provided in § 77.1909-1, only permissible explosives and permissible shot-firing units shall be used in sinking shafts and slopes.
§ 77.1909-1
Use of nonpermissible explosives and nonpermissible shot-firing units; approval by Health and Safety District Manager.
Where the Coal Mine Health and Safety District Manager has determined that the use of nonpermissible explosives and nonpermissible shot-firing units will not pose a hazard to any person during the development of a slope or shaft, he may, after written application by the operator, approve the use of such explosives and shot-firing units and issue a permit for the use of such explosives and devices setting forth the safeguards to be employed by the operator to protect the health and safety of any person exposed to such blasting.
(Pub. L. No. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
))
[36 FR 9364, May 22, 1971, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]
§ 77.1910
Explosives and blasting; general.
(a) Light and power circuits shall be disconnected or removed from the blasting area before charging and blasting.
(b) All explosive materials, detonators, and any other related blasting material employed in the development of any slope or shaft shall be stored, transported, carried, charged, and fired in accordance with the provision of Subpart N, “Explosives and Blasting,” of this Part 77. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all shots shall be fired from the surface.
(c) Where tests for methane have been conducted and methane has not been found and only permissible blasting units are being employed, shots may be fired from an upper level of the slope or shaft.
(d) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all men shall be removed from the slope or shaft prior to blasting.
(e) Blasting areas in slopes or shafts shall be covered with mats or other suitable material when the excavation is too shallow to retain blasted material.
(f) Where it is impracticable to prepare primers in the blasting area, primers may be prepared on the surface and carried into the shaft in specially constructed, insulated, covered containers.
(g) No other development operation shall be conducted in a shaft or at the face of a slope while drill holes are being charged and until after all shots have been fired.
(h) The sides of the slope or shaft between the overhead platform and the bottom where men are working shall be examined after each blast and loose material removed.
(i) Loose rock and other material shall be removed from timbers and platforms after each blast before men are lowered to the shaft bottom.
§ 77.1911
Ventilation of slopes and shafts.
(a) All slopes and shafts shall be ventilated by mechanical ventilation equipment during development. Such equipment shall be examined before each shift and the quantity of air in the slope or shaft measured daily by a certified person and the results of such examinations and tests recorded in a book approved by the Secretary.
(b) Ventilation fans shall be:
(1) Installed on the surface;
(2) Installed in fireproof housing and connected to the slope or shaft opening with fireproof air ducts;
(3) Designed to permit the reversal of the air current, and located in an area which will prevent a recirculation of air from the slope or shaft or air contamination from any other source;
(4) Equipped with an automatic signal device designed to give an alarm in the event the fan slows or stops which can be seen or heard by any person on duty in the vicinity of the fan, except where fans are constantly attended.
(5) Offset not less than 15 feet from the shaft; and
(6) Equipped with air ducts which are fire resistant and maintained so as to prevent excessive leakage of air;
(i) Flexible ducts shall be constructed to permit ventilation by either exhausting or blowing methods and when metal air ducts are used, they shall be grounded effectively to remove static and other electrical charges;
(ii) Ducts shall extend as close to the bottom as necessary to ventilate properly.
(c) A qualified person, designated by the operator, shall be assigned to maintain each ventilating system.
(d) The fan shall be operated continuously when men are below the surface. Any accidental stoppage or reduction in airflow shall be corrected promptly; however, where repairs cannot be made immediately, development work below the surface shall be stopped and all the men not needed to make necessary repairs shall be removed to the surface.
§ 77.1912
Ladders and stairways.
(a) Substantial stairways or ladders shall be used during the construction of all shafts where no mechanical means are provided for men to travel.
(b) Landings at intervals of not more than 30 feet shall be installed.
(c) Shaft ladders shall project 3 feet above the collar of the shaft, and shall be placed at least 3 inches from the side of the shaft.
§ 77.1913
Fire-resistant wood.
Except for crossties, timbers, and other wood products which are permanently installed in slopes and shafts, shall be fire resistant.
§ 77.1914
Electrical equipment.
(a) Electric equipment employed below the collar of a slope or shaft during excavation shall be permissible and shall be maintained in a permissible condition.
(b) The insulation of all electric conductors employed below the collar of any slope or shaft during excavation shall be of the flame resistant type.
(c) Only lamps and portable flood lights approved by the Bureau of Mines or the Mine Safety and Health Administration under Part 19 and Part 20 of this chapter (Bureau of Mines Schedules 6D and 10C) shall be employed below the collar of any slope or shaft.
§ 77.1915
Storage and handling of combustible materials.
(a) Compressed and liquefied gas, oil, gasoline, and other petroleum products shall not be stored within 100 feet of any slope or shaft opening.
(b) Other combustible material and supplies shall not be stored within 25 feet of any slope or shaft opening.
(c) Pyritic slates, bony coal, culm or other material capable of spontaneous combustion shall not be used for fill or as surfacing material within 100 feet of any slope or shaft opening.
(d) Areas surrounding the opening of each slope or shaft shall be constructed to insure the drainage of flammable liquids away from the slope or shaft in the event of spillage.
(e) Oily rags, waste, waste paper, and other combustible waste material disposed of in the vicinity of any slope or shaft opening shall be stored in closed containers until removed from the area.
§ 77.1916
Welding, cutting, and soldering; fire protection.
(a) One portable fire extinguisher shall be provided where welding, cutting, or soldering with arc or flame is performed.
(b) Welding, cutting, or soldering with arc or flame within or in the vicinity of any slope or shaft, except where such operations are performed in fireproof enclosures, shall be done under the supervision of a qualified person who shall make a diligent search within or in the vicinity of the slope or shaft for fire during and after such operations.
(c) Before welding, cutting, or soldering is performed in any slope or shaft designed to penetrate into any coalbed below the surface, an examination for methane shall be made by a qualified person with a device approved by the Secretary for detecting methane. Examination for methane shall be made immediately before and periodically during welding, cutting, or soldering and such work shall not be permitted to commence or continue in air which contains 1.0 volume per centum or more of methane.
(d) Noncombustible barriers shall be installed below welding, cutting, or soldering operations in or over a shaft.
Subpart U—Approved Books and Records [Reserved]

# Subpart V—Safety Program for Surface Mobile Equipment

# Source:
88 FR 87928, Dec. 20, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 77.2100
Purpose and scope.
This subpart requires operators to develop, implement, and update a written safety program for surface mobile equipment to reduce the number and rates of accidents, injuries, and fatalities. This subpart applies to surface mobile equipment at surface coal mines and surface work areas of underground coal mines. The purpose of this safety program is to promote and support a positive safety culture and improve miners' safety at the mine.
§ 77.2101
Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this subpart—
Responsible person
means a person with authority and responsibility to evaluate and update a written safety program for surface mobile equipment.
Surface mobile equipment
means wheeled, skid-mounted, track-mounted, or rail-mounted equipment capable of moving or being moved, and any powered equipment that transports people, equipment, or materials, excluding belt conveyors, at surface coal mines and surface work areas of underground coal mines.
§ 77.2102
Written safety program.
(a) Each operator shall develop and implement a written safety program for surface mobile equipment that contains the elements in this subpart, no later than July 17, 2024.
(b) Each operator shall designate at least one responsible person to evaluate and update the written safety program, no later than July 17, 2024.
§ 77.2103
Requirements for written safety program.
(a) The operator shall develop and implement a written safety program that includes actions the operator will take to:
(1) Identify and analyze hazards and reduce the resulting risks related to the movement and the operation of surface mobile equipment;
(2) Develop and maintain procedures and schedules for routine maintenance and non-routine repairs for surface mobile equipment;
(3) Identify currently available and newly emerging feasible technologies that can enhance safety at the mine and evaluate whether to adopt them; and
(4) Train miners and other persons at the mine necessary to perform work to identify and address or avoid hazards related to surface mobile equipment.
(b) The responsible person shall evaluate and update the written safety program at least annually, or as mining conditions or practices change that may adversely affect the health and safety of miners or other persons, as accidents or injuries occur, or as surface mobile equipment changes or modifications are made.
(c) The operator shall solicit input from miners and their representatives in developing and updating the written safety program.
§ 77.2104
Record and inspection.
(a) The operator shall make the written safety program available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and provide a copy upon request.
(b) The operator shall make the written safety program available for inspection by miners and their representatives and, at no cost, provide a copy upon request.
Pt. 90

# PART 90—MANDATORY HEALTH STANDARDS—COAL MINERS WHO HAVE EVIDENCE OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF PNEUMOCONIOSIS

# Subpart A—General
Sec,
90.1
Scope.
90.2
Definitions.
90.3
Part 90 option; notice of eligibility; exercise of option.

# Subpart B—Dust Standards, Rights of Part 90 Miners
90.100
Respirable dust standard.
90.101
[Reserved]
90.102
Transfer; notice.
90.103
Compensation.
90.104
Waiver of rights; re-exercise of option.

# Subpart C—Sampling Procedures
90.201
Sampling; general and technical requirements.
90.202
Certified person; sampling.
90.203
Certified person; maintenance and calibration.
90.204
Approved sampling devices; maintenance and calibration.
90.205
Approved sampling devices; operation; air flowrate.
90.206
Exercise of option or transfer sampling.
90.207
Quarterly sampling.
90.208
Respirable dust samples; transmission by operator.
90.209
Respirable dust samples; report to operator.
90.210
Status change reports.

# Subpart D—Respirable Dust Control Plans
90.300
Respirable dust control plan; filing requirements.
90.301
Respirable dust control plan; approval by District Manager; copy to part 90 miner.

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 811, 813(h), 957.

# Source:
45 FR 80769, Dec. 5, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
79 FR 24988, May 1, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 90.1
Scope.
This part 90 establishes the option of miners who are employed at coal mines and who have evidence of the development of pneumoconiosis to work in an area of a mine where the average concentration of respirable dust in the mine atmosphere during each shift is continuously maintained at or below the applicable standard as specified in § 90.100. The rule sets forth procedures for miners to exercise this option, and establishes the right of miners to retain their regular rate of pay and receive wage increases. The rule also sets forth the operator's obligations, including respirable dust sampling for
part 90 miners. This part 90 is promulgated pursuant to section 101 of the Act and supersedes section 203(b) of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended.
§ 90.2
Definitions.
As April 14, 2025, the following definitions apply in this part:
Act.
The Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Public Law 91-173, as amended by Public Law 95-164 and Public Law 109-236.
Active workings.
Any place in a coal mine where miners are normally required to work or travel.
Approved sampling device.
A sampling device approved by the Secretary and Secretary for Health and Human Services (HHS) under part 74 of this subchapter.
Certified person.
An individual certified by the Secretary in accordance with § 90.202 to take respirable dust samples required by this part or certified in accordance with § 90.203 to perform the maintenance and calibration of respirable dust sampling equipment as required by this part.
Coal mine dust personal sampler unit (CMDPSU).
A personal sampling device approved under part 74, subpart B, of this subchapter.
Concentration.
A measure of the amount of a substance contained per unit volume of air.
Continuous personal dust monitor (CPDM).
A personal sampling device approved under part 74, subpart C, of this subchapter.
District Manager.
The manager of the Coal Mine Safety and Health District in which the mine is located.
Equivalent concentration.
The concentration of respirable coal mine dust, including quartz, expressed in milligrams per cubic meter of air (mg/m
3
) as measured with an approved sampling device, determined by dividing the weight of dust in milligrams collected on the filter of an approved sampling device by the volume of air in cubic meters passing through the filter (sampling time in minutes (t) times the sampling airflow rate in cubic meters per minute), and then converting that concentration to an equivalent concentration as measured by the Mining Research Establishment (MRE) instrument. When the approved sampling device is:
(1) The CMDPSU, the equivalent concentration is determined by multiplying the concentration of respirable coal mine dust by the constant factor prescribed by the Secretary.
(2) The CPDM, the device shall be programmed to automatically report end-of-shift concentration measurements as equivalent concentrations.
Mechanized mining unit (MMU).
A unit of mining equipment including hand loading equipment used for the production of material; or a specialized unit which uses mining equipment other than specified in § 70.206(b) or in § 70.208(b) of this subchapter. Each MMU will be assigned a four-digit identification number by MSHA, which is retained by the MMU regardless of where the unit relocates within the mine. However, when:
(1) Two sets of mining equipment are used in a series of working places within the same working section and only one production crew is employed at any given time on either set of mining equipment, the two sets of equipment shall be identified as a single MMU.
(2) Two or more sets of mining equipment are simultaneously engaged in cutting, mining, or loading coal or rock from working places within the same working section, each set of mining equipment shall be identified as a separate MMU.
MRE instrument.
The gravimetric dust sampler with a four channel horizontal elutriator developed by the Mining Research Establishment of the National Coal Board, London, England.
MSHA.
The Mine Safety and Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor.
Normal work duties.
Duties which the part 90 miner performs on a routine day-to-day basis in his or her job classification at a mine.
Part 90 miner.
A miner employed at a coal mine who has exercised the option under the old section 203(b) program (30 CFR part 90, effective as of July 1, 1972), or under § 90.3 to work in an area of a mine where the average concentration of respirable dust in the mine atmosphere during each shift to which that miner is exposed is continuously
maintained at or below the standard, and who has not waived these rights.
Representative sample.
A respirable dust sample, expressed as an equivalent concentration, that reflects typical dust concentration levels in the working environment of the part 90 miner when performing normal work duties.
Respirable dust.
Dust collected with a sampling device approved by the Secretary and the Secretary of HHS in accordance with part 74 (Coal Mine Dust Sampling Devices) of this subchapter.
Secretary.
The Secretary of Labor or a delegate.
Secretary of Health and Human Services.
The Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) or the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Transfer.
Any change in the work assignment of a part 90 miner by the operator and includes:
(1) Any change in occupation code of a part 90 miner;
(2) any movement of a part 90 miner to or from an MMU; or
(3) any assignment of a part 90 miner to the same occupation in a different location at a mine.
Valid respirable dust sample.
A respirable dust sample collected and submitted as required by this part, including any sample for which the data were electronically transmitted to MSHA, and not voided by MSHA.
[89 FR 28481, 28482, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 90.3
Part 90 option; notice of eligibility; exercise of option.
Effective April 14, 2025:
(a) Any miner employed at a coal mine who, in the judgment of the Secretary of HHS, has evidence of the development of pneumoconiosis based on a chest X-ray, read and classified in the manner prescribed by the Secretary of HHS, or based on other medical examinations shall be afforded the option to work in an area of a mine where the average concentration of respirable dust in the mine atmosphere during each shift to which that miner is exposed is continuously maintained at or below the standard. Each of these miners shall be notified in writing of eligibility to exercise the option.
(b) Any miner who is a section 203(b) miner on January 31, 1981, shall be a part 90 miner on February 1, 1981, entitled to full rights under this part to retention of pay rate, future actual wage increases, and future work assignment, shift and respirable dust protection.
(c) Any part 90 miner who is transferred to a position at the same or another coal mine shall remain a part 90 miner entitled to full rights under this part at the new work assignment.
(d) The option to work in a low dust area of the mine may be exercised for the first time by any miner employed at a coal mine who was eligible for the option under the old section 203(b) program (
www.msha.gov/REGSTECHAMEND.htm
), or is eligible for the option under this part by sending a written request to the Chief, Division of Health, Mine Safety and Health Enforcement, MSHA, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452.
(e) The option to work in a low dust area of the mine may be re-exercised by any miner employed at a coal mine who exercised the option under the old section 203(b) program (
www.msha.gov/REGSTECHAMEND.htm
) or exercised the option under this part by sending a written request to the Chief, Division of Health, Mine Safety and Health Enforcement, MSHA, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452. The request should include the name and address of the mine and operator where the miner is employed.
(f) No operator shall require from a miner a copy of the medical information received from the Secretary or Secretary of HHS.
[89 FR 28482, Apr. 18, 2024]

# Subpart B—Dust Standards, Rights of Part 90 Miners

# Source:
79 FR 24989, May 1, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 90.100
Respirable dust standard.
The following is required as of April 14, 2025. After the 20th calendar day following receipt of notification from MSHA that a part 90 miner is employed at the mine, the operator shall continuously maintain the average concentration of respirable dust in the mine atmosphere during each shift to which the part 90 miner in the active
workings of the mine is exposed, as measured with an approved sampling device and expressed in terms of an equivalent concentration, at or below 0.5 mg/m
3
.
[89 FR 28482, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 90.101
[Reserved]
§ 90.102
Transfer; notice.
As of April 14, 2025:
(a) Whenever a part 90 miner is transferred in order to meet the standard, the operator shall transfer the miner to an existing position at the same coal mine on the same shift or shift rotation on which the miner was employed immediately before the transfer. The operator may transfer a part 90 miner to a different coal mine, a newly created position or a position on a different shift or shift rotation if the miner agrees in writing to the transfer. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply when the respirable dust concentration in a part 90 miner's work position complies with the standard but circumstances, such as reductions in workforce or changes in operational status, require a change in the miner's job or shift assignment.
(b) On or before the 20th calendar day following receipt of notification from MSHA that a part 90 miner is employed at the mine, the operator shall give the District Manager written notice of the occupation and, if applicable, the MMU unit to which the part 90 miner shall be assigned on the 21st calendar day following receipt of the notification from MSHA.
(c) After the 20th calendar day following receipt of notification from MSHA that a part 90 miner is employed at the mine, the operator shall give the District Manager written notice before any transfer of a part 90 miner. This notice shall include the scheduled date of the transfer.
[89 FR 28482, 28483, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 90.103
Compensation.
(a) The operator shall compensate each part 90 miner at not less than the regular rate of pay received by that miner immediately before exercising the option under § 90.3.
(b) Whenever a part 90 miner is transferred, the operator shall compensate the miner at not less than the regular rate of pay received by that miner immediately before the transfer.
(c) Once a miner has been placed in a position in compliance with the provisions of part 90, paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply when the part 90 miner initiates and accepts a change in work assignment for reasons of job preference.
(d) The operator shall compensate each miner who is a section 203(b) miner on January 31, 1981, at not less than the regular rate of pay that the miner is required to receive under section 203(b) of the Act immediately before the effective date of this part.
(e) In addition to the compensation required to be paid under paragraphs (a), (b), and (d) of this section, the operator shall pay each part 90 miner the actual wage increases that accrue to the classification to which the miner is assigned.
(f) If a miner is temporarily employed in an occupation other than his or her regular work classification for two months or more before exercising the option under § 90.3, the miner's regular rate of pay for purposes of paragraph (a) and (b) of this section is the higher of the temporary or regular rates of pay. If the temporary assignment is for less than two months, the operator may pay the part 90 miner at his or her regular work classification rate regardless of the temporary wage rate.
(g) If a part 90 miner is transferred, and the Secretary subsequently notifies the miner that notice of the miner's eligibility to exercise the part 90 option was incorrect, the operator shall retain the affected miner in the current position to which the miner is assigned and continue to pay the affected miner the applicable rate of pay provided in paragraphs (a), (b), (d), and (e) of this section, until:
(1) The affected miner and operator agree in writing to a position with pay at not less than the regular rate of pay for that occupation; or
(2) A position is available at the same coal mine in both the same occupation and on the same shift on which the
miner was employed immediately before exercising the option under § 90.3 or under the old section 203(b) program (36 FR 20601, October 27, 1971).
(i) When such a position is available, the operator shall offer the available position in writing to the affected miner with pay at not less than the regular rate of pay for that occupation.
(ii) If the affected miner accepts the available position in writing, the operator shall implement the miner's reassignment upon notice of the miner's acceptance. If the miner does not accept the available position in writing, the miner may be reassigned and protections under part 90 shall not apply. Failure by the miner to act on the written offer of the available position within 15 days after notice of the offer is received from the operator shall operate as an election not to accept the available position.
§ 90.104
Waiver of rights; re-exercise of option.
As of April 14, 2025:
(a) A part 90 miner may waive his or her rights and be removed from MSHA's active list of miners who have rights under part 90 by:
(1) Giving written notification to the Chief, Division of Health, Mine Safety and Health Enforcement, MSHA, that the miner waives all rights under this part;
(2) Applying for and accepting a position in an area of a mine which the miner knows has an average respirable dust concentration exceeding the standard; or
(3) Refusing to accept another position offered by the operator at the same coal mine that meets the requirements of §§ 90.100, 90.101 and 90.102(a) after dust sampling shows that the present position exceeds the applicable standard.
(b) If rights under part 90 are waived, the miner gives up all rights under part 90 until the miner re-exercises the option in accordance with § 90.3(e) (Part 90 option; notice of eligibility; exercise of option).
(c) If rights under part 90 are waived, the miner may re-exercise the option under this part in accordance with § 90.3(e) (Part 90 option; notice of eligibility; exercise of option) at any time.
[89 FR 28483, Apr. 18, 2024]

# Subpart C—Sampling Procedures

# Source:
79 FR 24990, May 1, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 90.201
Sampling; general and technical requirements.
(a) An approved coal mine dust personal sampler unit (CMDPSU) shall be used to take samples of the concentration of respirable coal mine dust in the working environment of each part 90 miner as required by this part. On February 1, 2016, part 90 miners shall be sampled only with an approved continuous personal dust monitor (CPDM) as required by this part and an approved CMDPSU shall not be used, unless notified by the Secretary to continue to use an approved CMDPSU to conduct quarterly sampling.
(b) If using a CMDPSU, the sampling device shall be worn or carried to and from each part 90 miner. If using a CPDM, the sampling device shall be worn by the part 90 miner at all times. Approved sampling devices shall be operated portal-to-portal and shall remain operational during the part 90 miner's entire shift, which includes the time spent performing normal work duties and while traveling to and from the assigned work location. If the work shift to be sampled is longer than 12 hours and the sampling device is:
(1) A CMDPSU, the operator shall switch-out the unit's sampling pump prior to the 13th-hour of operation.
(2) A CPDM, the operator shall switch-out the CPDM with a fully charged device prior to the 13th-hour of operation.
(c) Unless otherwise directed by the District Manager, the respirable dust samples required under this part using a CMDPSU shall be taken by placing the sampling device as follows:
(1) On the part 90 miner;
(2) On the piece of equipment which the part 90 miner operates within 36 inches of the normal working position; or
(3) At a location that represents the maximum concentration of dust to which the part 90 miner is exposed.
(d) If using a CMDPSU, one control filter shall be used for each shift of sampling. Each control filter shall:
(1) Have the same pre-weight date (noted on the dust data card) as the filter used for sampling;
(2) Remain plugged at all times;
(3) Be used for the same amount of time, and exposed to the same temperature and handling conditions as the filter used for sampling; and
(4) Be kept with the exposed samples after sampling and in the same mailing container when transmitted to MSHA.
(e) The respirable dust samples required by this part and taken with a CMDPSU shall be collected while the part 90 miner is performing normal work duties.
(f) Records showing the length of each shift for each part 90 miner shall be made and retained for at least six months, and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and submitted to the District Manager when requested in writing.
(g) Upon request from the District Manager, the operator shall submit the date and time any respirable dust sampling required by this part will begin. This information shall be submitted at least 48 hours prior to scheduled sampling.
(h) Operators using CPDMs shall provide training to all part 90 miners. The training shall be completed prior to a part 90 miner wearing a CPDM and then every 12 months thereafter. The training shall include:
(1) The importance of monitoring dust concentrations and properly wearing the CPDM;
(2) Explaining the basic features and capabilities of the CPDM;
(3) Discussing the various types of information displayed by the CPDM and how to access that information; and
(4) How to start and stop a short-term sample run during compliance sampling.
(i) An operator shall keep a record of the CPDM training at the mine site for 24 months after completion of the training. An operator may keep the record elsewhere if the record is immediately accessible from the mine site by electronic transmission. Upon request from an authorized representative of the Secretary or Secretary of HHS, the operator shall promptly provide access to any such training records. The record shall include:
(1) The date of training;
(2) The names of miners trained; and
(3) The subjects included in the training.
(j) An anthracite mine using the full box, open breast, or slant breast mining method may use either a CPDM or a CMDPSU to conduct the required sampling. The mine operator shall notify the District Manager in writing of its decision to not use a CPDM.
§ 90.202
Certified person; sampling.
(a) The respirable dust sampling required by this part shall be performed by a certified person.
(b) To be certified, a person shall complete the applicable MSHA course of instruction and pass the MSHA examination demonstrating competency in sampling procedures. Persons not certified in sampling and those certified only in maintenance and calibration procedures in accordance with § 90.203(b) are not permitted to collect respirable dust samples required by this part or handle approved sampling devices when being used in sampling.
(c) To maintain certification, a person must pass the MSHA examination demonstrating competency in sampling procedures every three years.
(d) MSHA may revoke a person's certification for failing to properly carry out the required sampling procedures.
§ 90.203
Certified person; maintenance and calibration.
(a) Approved sampling devices shall be maintained and calibrated by a certified person.
(b) To be certified, a person shall complete the applicable MSHA course of instruction and pass the MSHA examination demonstrating competency in maintenance and calibration procedures for approved sampling devices. Necessary maintenance of the sampling head assembly of a CMDPSU, or the cyclone assembly of a CPDM, can be performed by persons certified in sampling or in maintenance and calibration.
(c) To maintain certification, a person must pass the MSHA examination demonstrating competency in maintenance and calibration procedures every three years.
(d) MSHA may revoke a person's certification for failing to properly carry out the required maintenance and calibration procedures.
§ 90.204
Approved sampling devices; maintenance and calibration.
(a) Approved sampling devices shall be maintained as approved under part 74 of this title and calibrated in accordance with MSHA Informational Report IR 1240 (1996) “Calibration and Maintenance Procedures for Coal Mine Respirable Dust Samplers” or in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations if using a CPDM. Only persons certified in maintenance and calibration can perform maintenance on the CPDM or the pump unit of the CMDPSU.
(b) Approved sampling devices shall be calibrated at the flowrate of 2.0 liters of air per minute (L/min) if using a CMDPSU; at 2.2 L/min if using a CPDM; or at a different flowrate recommended by the manufacturer, before they are put into service and, thereafter, at time intervals recommended by the manufacturer or prescribed by the Secretary or Secretary of HHS.
(c) If using a CMDPSU, sampling devices shall be examined and tested by a person certified in sampling or in maintenance and calibration within 3 hours before the start of the shift on which the approved sampling devices will be used to collect respirable dust samples. This is to assure that the sampling devices are clean and in proper working condition. This examination and testing shall include the following:
(1) Examination of all components of the cyclone assembly to assure that they are clean and free of dust and dirt. This includes examining the interior of the connector barrel (located between the cassette assembly and vortex finder), vortex finder, cyclone body, and grit pot;
(2) Examination of the inner surface of the cyclone body to assure that it is free of scoring or scratch marks on the inner surface of the cyclone where the air flow is directed by the vortex finder into the cyclone body;
(3) Examination of the external hose connecting the pump unit to the sampling head assembly to assure that it is clean and free of leaks; and
(4) Examination of the clamping and positioning of the cyclone body, vortex finder, and cassette to assure that they are rigid, in alignment, firmly in contact, and airtight.
(5) Testing the voltage of each battery while under actual load to assure the battery is fully charged. This requires that a fully assembled and examined sampling head assembly be attached to the pump inlet with the pump unit running when the voltage check is made. The voltage for batteries used in the CMDPSU shall not be lower than the product of the number of cells in the battery multiplied by the manufacturer's nominal voltage per cell.
(d) If using a CPDM, the certified person in sampling or in maintenance and calibration shall:
(1) Follow the pre-operational examinations, testing, and set-up procedures, and perform necessary external maintenance recommended by the manufacturer to assure the operational readiness of the CPDM within 3 hours before the start of the shift on which the sampling device will be used to collect respirable dust samples; and
(2) Perform other required scheduled examinations and maintenance procedures recommended by the manufacturer.
(e) You must proceed in accordance with “Calibration and Maintenance Procedures for Coal Mine Respirable Dust Samplers,” MSHA Informational Report IR 1240 (1996), referenced in paragraph (a) of this section. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from the MSHA Web site at
http://www.msha.gov
and you may inspect or obtain a copy at MSHA, Coal Mine Safety and Health, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9500; and at each MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information
on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
[79 FR 24990, May 1, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 52993, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 90.205
Approved sampling devices; operation; air flowrate.
As of April 14, 2025:
(a) Approved sampling devices shall be operated at the flowrate of 2.0 L/min if using a CMDPSU; at 2.2 L/min if using a CPDM; or at a different flowrate recommended by the manufacturer.
(b) If using a CMDPSU, each approved sampling device shall be examined each shift, by a person certified in sampling during:
(1) The second hour after being put into operation to assure it is in the proper location, operating properly, and at the proper flowrate. If the proper flowrate is not maintained, necessary adjustments shall be made by the certified person. This examination is not required if the sampling device is being operated in an anthracite coal mine using the full box, open breast, or slant breast mining method.
(2) The last hour of operation to assure that the sampling device is operating properly and at the proper flowrate. If the proper flowrate is not maintained, the respirable dust sample shall be transmitted to MSHA with a notation by the certified person on the back of the dust data card stating that the proper flowrate was not maintained. Other events occurring during the collection of respirable dust samples that may affect the validity of the sample, such as dropping of the sampling head assembly onto the mine floor, shall be noted on the back of the dust data card.
(c) If using a CPDM, the person certified in sampling shall monitor the dust concentrations and the sampling status conditions being reported by the sampling device at mid-shift or more frequently as specified in the approved respirable dust control plan, if applicable, to assure: The sampling device is in the proper location and operating properly; and the work environment of the Part 90 miner being sampled remains in compliance with the standard at the end of the shift. This monitoring is not required if the sampling device is being operated in an anthracite coal mine using the full box, open breast, or slant breast mining method.
[89 FR 28483, 28484, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 90.206
Exercise of option or transfer sampling.
(a) The operator shall take five valid representative dust samples for each part 90 miner within 15 calendar days after:
(1) The 20-day period specified for each part 90 miner in § 90.100; and
(2) Implementing any transfer after the 20th calendar day following receipt of notification from MSHA that a part 90 miner is employed at the mine.
(b) Noncompliance with the standard shall be determined in accordance with § 90.207(d).
(c) Upon issuance of a citation for a violation of the standard, the operator shall comply with § 90.207(f).
[89 FR 28484, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 90.207
Quarterly sampling.
As of April 14, 2025:
(a) Each operator shall take five valid representative samples every calendar quarter from the environment of each part 90 miner while performing normal work duties. Part 90 miner samples shall be collected on consecutive work days. The quarterly periods are:
(1) January 1-March 31
(2) April 1-June 30
(3) July 1-September 30
(4) October 1-December 31.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) When a valid representative sample taken in accordance with this section meets or exceeds the ECV in table 1 to this section corresponding to the particular sampling device used, the mine operator shall:
(1) Make approved respiratory equipment available to affected miners in accordance with § 72.700 of this chapter;
(2) Immediately take corrective action to lower the concentration of respirable coal mine dust to below the standard; and
(3) Make a record of the corrective actions taken. The record shall be certified by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official, no later than the end of the mine foreman's or equivalent official's next regularly scheduled working shift. The record shall be made in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration. Such records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the part 90 miner.
(d) Noncompliance with the standard is demonstrated during the sampling period when:
(1) Two or more valid representative samples meet or exceed the ECV in table 1 to this section that corresponds to the particular sampling device used; or
(2) The average for all valid representative samples meets or exceeds the ECV in table 1 to this section that corresponds to the particular sampling device used.
(e) Unless otherwise directed by the District Manager, upon issuance of a citation for a violation of the standard, paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to that Part 90 miner until the violation is abated and the citation is terminated in accordance with paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.
(f) Upon issuance of a citation for a violation of the standard, the operator shall take the following actions sequentially:
(1) Make approved respiratory equipment available to the affected part 90 miner in accordance with § 72.700 of this subchapter.
(2) Immediately take corrective action to lower the concentration of respirable dust to below the standard. If the corrective action involves:
(i) Reducing the respirable dust levels in the work position of the part 90 miner identified in the citation, the operator shall implement the proposed corrective actions and begin sampling the affected miner within 8 calendar days after the date the citation is issued, until five valid representative samples are taken.
(ii) Transferring the Part 90 miner to another work position at the mine to meet the standard, the operator shall comply with § 90.102 and then sample the affected miner in accordance with § 90.206(a).
(3) Make a record of the corrective actions taken. The record shall be certified by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official, no later than the end of the mine foreman's or equivalent official's next regularly scheduled working shift. The record shall be made in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration. Such records shall be retained at a surface location at the mine for at least 1 year and shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and the part 90 miner.
(g) A citation for a violation of the standard shall be terminated by MSHA when the equivalent concentration of each of the five valid representative samples is below the standard.
Table 1 to § 90.207—Excessive Concentration Values (ECV) Based on a Single Sample, Two Samples, or the Average of Five Full-Shift CMDPSU/CPDM Concentration Measurements
Section
Samples
ECV (mg/m
3
)
CMDPSU
CPDM
90.207(c)
Single sample
0.74
0.57
90.207(d)(1)
2 or more samples
0.74
0.57
90.207(d)(2)
5 sample average
0.61
0.53
90.207(g)
Each of 5 samples
0.74
0.57
[89 FR 28484, 28485, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 90.208
Respirable dust samples; transmission by operator.
(a) If using a CMDPSU, the operator shall transmit within 24 hours after the end of the sampling shift all samples collected to fulfill the requirements of this part, including control filters, in containers provided by the manufacturer of the filter cassette to: Respirable Dust Processing Laboratory, Pittsburgh Safety and Health Technology Center, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, Building 38, Pittsburgh, PA 15236-3611, or to any other address designated by the District Manager.
(b) The operator shall not open or tamper with the seal of any filter cassette or alter the weight of any filter cassette before or after it is used to fulfill the requirements of this part.
(c) A person certified in sampling shall properly complete the dust data card that is provided by the manufacturer for each filter cassette. The card shall have an identification number identical to that on the cassette used to take the sample and be submitted to MSHA with the sample. Each card shall be signed by the certified person who actually performed the required examinations under 90.205(b) of this part during the sampling shift and shall include that person's MSHA Individual Identification Number (MIIN). Respirable dust samples with data cards not properly completed may be voided by MSHA.
(d) All respirable dust samples collected by the operator shall be considered taken to fulfill the sampling requirements of part 70, 71, or 90 of this title, unless the sample has been identified in writing by the operator to the District Manager, prior to the intended sampling shift, as a sample to be used for purposes other than required by part 70, 71, or 90 of this title.
(e) Respirable dust samples received by MSHA in excess of those required by this part shall be considered invalid samples.
(f) If using a CPDM, the person certified in sampling shall (1) validate, certify, and transmit electronically to MSHA within 24 hours after the end of each sampling shift all sample data file information collected and stored in the CPDM, including the sampling status conditions encountered when sampling each part 90 miner; and (2) not tamper with the CPDM or its components in any way before, during, or after it is used to fulfill the requirements of this part, or alter any data files. All CPDM data files transmitted electronically to MSHA shall be maintained by the operator for at least 12 months.
[79 FR 24988, May 1, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 52993, Sept. 2, 2015]
§ 90.209
Respirable dust samples; report to operator.
(a) MSHA shall provide the operator, as soon as practicable, a report with the following data on respirable dust samples submitted or whose results were transmitted electronically, if using a CPDM, in accordance with this part:
(1) The mine identification number;
(2) The locations within the mine from which the samples were taken;
(3) The concentration of respirable dust, expressed as an equivalent concentration for each valid sample;
(4) The average equivalent concentration of respirable dust for all valid samples;
(5) The occupation code;
(6) The reason for voiding any sample; and
(7) The part 90 miner's MSHA Individual Identification Number (MIIN).
(b) Upon receipt, the operator shall provide a copy of this report to the part 90 miner. The operator shall not post the original or a copy of this report on the mine bulletin board.
(c) If using a CPDM, the person certified in sampling shall print, sign, and provide to each part 90 miner, a paper record (Dust Data Card) of the sample run within one hour after the start of the part 90 miner's next work shift. This hard-copy record shall include the data entered when the sample run was first programmed, and the following:
(1) The mine identification number;
(2) The location within the mine from which the sample was taken;
(3) The concentration of respirable dust, expressed as an equivalent concentration reported and stored for each sample;
(4) The sampling status conditions encountered for each sample;
(5) The shift length; and
(6) The part 90 miner's MSHA Individual Identification Number (MIIN).
(d) The operator shall not post data on respirable dust samples for part 90 miners on the mine bulletin board.
§ 90.210
Status change reports.
If there is a change in the status of a part 90 miner (such as entering a terminated, injured, or ill status, or returning to work), the operator shall report the change in the status of the part 90 miner to the MSHA District Office or to any other MSHA office designated by the District Manager. Status changes shall be reported in writing or by electronic means within 3 working days after the status change has occurred.

# Subpart D—Respirable Dust Control Plans

# Source:
79 FR 24993, May 1, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 90.300
Respirable dust control plan; filing requirements.
As of April 14, 2025:
(a) If an operator abates a violation of the standard by reducing the respirable dust level in the position of the Part 90 miner, the operator shall submit to the District Manager for approval a written respirable dust control plan for the Part 90 miner in the position identified in the citation within 15 calendar days after the citation is terminated. The respirable dust control plan and revisions thereof shall be suitable to the conditions and the mining system of the coal mine and shall be adequate to continuously maintain respirable dust below the standard for that Part 90 miner.
(b) Each respirable dust control plan shall include at least the following:
(1) The mine identification number assigned by MSHA, the operator's name, mine name, mine address, and mine telephone number and the name, address and telephone number of the principal officer in charge of health and safety at the mine;
(2) The name and MSHA Individual Identification Number of the part 90 miner and the position at the mine to which the plan applies;
(3) A detailed description of how each of the respirable dust control measures used to continuously maintain concentrations of respirable coal mine dust below the standard; and
(4) A detailed description of how each of the respirable dust control measures described in response to paragraph (b)(3) of this section will continue to be used by the operator, including at least the specific time, place, and manner the control measures will be used.
[89 FR 28485, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 90.301
Respirable dust control plan; approval by District Manager; copy to part 90 miner.
As of April 14, 2025:
(a) The District Manager will approve respirable dust control plans on a mine-by-mine basis. When approving respirable dust control plans, the District Manager shall consider whether:
(1) The respirable dust control measures would be likely to maintain concentrations of respirable coal mine dust below the standard; and
(2) The operator's compliance with all provisions of the respirable dust control plan could be objectively ascertained by MSHA.
(b) MSHA may take respirable dust samples to determine whether the respirable dust control measures in the operator's plan effectively maintain concentrations of respirable coal mine dust below the standard.
(c) The operator shall comply with all provisions of each respirable dust control plan upon notice from MSHA that the respirable dust control plan is approved.
(d) The operator shall provide a copy of the current respirable dust control plan required under this part to the part 90 miner. The operator shall not post the original or a copy of the plan on the mine bulletin board.
(e) The operator may review respirable dust control plans and submit proposed revisions to such plans to the District Manager for approval.
[89 FR 28485, Apr. 18, 2024]

# SUBCHAPTER P—CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT OF 1977
Pt. 100

# PART 100—CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR PROPOSED ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES
Sec.
100.1
Scope and purpose.
100.2
Applicability.
100.3
Determination of penalty amount; regular assessment.
100.4
Unwarrantable failure and immediate notification.
100.5
Determination of penalty amount; special assessment.
100.6
Procedures for review of citations and orders; procedures for assessment of civil penalties and conferences.
100.7
Notice of proposed penalty; notice of contest.
100.8
Service.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 30 U.S.C. 815, 820, 957; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note (Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990); Pub. L. 114-74 at sec. 701.

# Source:
72 FR 13635, Mar. 22, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 100.1
Scope and purpose.
This part provides the criteria and procedures for proposing civil penalties under sections 105 and 110 of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (Mine Act). The purpose of this part is to provide a fair and equitable procedure for the application of the statutory criteria in determining proposed penalties for violations, to maximize the incentives for mine operators to prevent and correct hazardous conditions, and to assure the prompt and efficient processing and collection of penalties.
§ 100.2
Applicability.
The criteria and procedures in this part are applicable to all proposed assessments of civil penalties for violations of the Mine Act and the standards and regulations promulgated pursuant to the Mine Act, as amended. MSHA shall review each citation and order and shall make proposed assessments of civil penalties.
§ 100.3
Determination of penalty amount; regular assessment.
(a)
General.
(1) Except as provided in § 100.5(e), the operator of any mine in which a violation occurs of a mandatory health or safety standard or who violates any other provision of the Mine Act, as amended, shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more than $90,649. Each occurrence of a violation of a mandatory safety or health standard may constitute a separate offense. The amount of the proposed civil penalty shall be based on the criteria set forth in sections 105(b) and 110(i) of the Mine Act. These criteria are:
(i) The appropriateness of the penalty to the size of the business of the operator charged;
(ii) The operator's history of previous violations;
(iii) Whether the operator was negligent;
(iv) The gravity of the violation;
(v) The demonstrated good faith of the operator charged in attempting to achieve rapid compliance after notification of a violation; and
(vi) The effect of the penalty on the operator's ability to continue in business.
(2) A regular assessment is determined by first assigning the appropriate number of penalty points to the violation by using the appropriate criteria and tables set forth in this section. The total number of penalty points will then be converted into a dollar amount under the penalty conversion table in paragraph (g) of this section. The penalty amount will be adjusted for demonstrated good faith in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(b)
The appropriateness of the penalty to the size of the business of the operator charged.
The appropriateness of the penalty to the size of the mine operator's business is calculated by using both the size of the mine cited and the size of the mine's controlling entity. The size of coal mines and their controlling entities is measured by coal production. The size of metal and
nonmetal mines and their controlling entities is measured by hours worked. The size of independent contractors is measured by the total hours worked at all mines. Penalty points for size are assigned based on Tables I to V. As used in these tables, the terms “annual tonnage” and “annual hours worked” mean coal produced and hours worked in the previous calendar year. In cases where a full year of data is not available, the coal produced or hours worked is prorated to an annual basis. This criterion accounts for a maximum of 25 penalty points.
ER22MR07.024
ER22MR07.025
ER22MR07.026
(c)
History of previous violations.
An operator's history of previous violations is based on both the total number of violations and the number of repeat violations of the same citable provision of a standard in a preceding 15-month period. Only assessed violations that have been paid or finally adjudicated, or have become final orders of the Commission will be included in determining an operator's history. The repeat aspect of the history criterion in paragraph (c)(2) of this section applies only after an operator has received 10 violations or an independent contractor operator has received 6 violations.
(1) Total number of violations. For mine operators, penalty points are assigned on the basis of the number of violations per inspection day (VPID)(Table VI). Penalty points are not assigned for mines with fewer than 10 violations in the specified history period. For independent contractors, penalty points are assigned on the basis of the total number of violations at all mines (Table VII). This aspect of the history criterion accounts for a maximum of 25 penalty points.
ER22MR07.027
(2) Repeat violations of the same standard. Repeat violation history is based on the number of violations of the same citable provision of a standard in a preceding 15-month period. For coal and metal and nonmetal mine operators with a minimum of six repeat violations, penalty points are assigned
on the basis of the number of repeat violations per inspection day (RPID) (Table VIII). For independent contractors, penalty points are assigned on the basis of the number of violations at all mines (Table IX). This aspect of the history criterion accounts for a maximum of 20 penalty points (Table VIII).
ER22MR07.028
(d)
Negligence.
Negligence is conduct, either by commission or omission, which falls below a standard of care established under the Mine Act to protect miners against the risks of harm. Under the Mine Act, an operator is held to a high standard of care. A mine operator is required to be on the alert for conditions and practices in the mine that affect the safety or health of miners and to take steps necessary to correct or prevent hazardous conditions or practices. The failure to exercise a high standard of care constitutes negligence. The negligence criterion assigns penalty points based on the degree to which the operator failed to exercise a high standard of care. When applying this criterion, MSHA considers mitigating circumstances which may include, but are not limited to, actions taken by the operator to prevent or correct hazardous conditions or practices. This criterion accounts for a maximum of 50 penalty points, based on conduct evaluated according to Table X.
ER22MR07.029
(e)
Gravity.
Gravity is an evaluation of the seriousness of the violation. This criterion accounts for a maximum of 88 penalty points, as derived from the Tables XI through XIII. Gravity is determined by the likelihood of the occurrence of the event against which a standard is directed; the severity of the
illness or injury if the event has occurred or was to occur; and the number of persons potentially affected if the event has occurred or were to occur.
ER22MR07.030
ER22MR07.031
(f)
Demonstrated good faith of the operator in abating the violation.
This criterion provides a 10% reduction in the penalty amount of a regular assessment where the operator abates the violation within the time set by the inspector.
(g)
Penalty conversion table.
The penalty conversion table is used to convert the total penalty points to a dollar amount.
Table 14 to Paragraph (
g
)—Penalty Conversion Table
Points
Penalty
($)
60 or fewer
$168
61
184
62
197
63
215
64
233
65
252
66
273
67
297
68
320
69
348
70
374
71
407
72
443
73
480
74
517
75
561
76
610
77
658
78
714
79
775
80
839
81
909
82
982
83
1,066
84
1,153
85
1,252
86
1,355
87
1,467
88
1,590
89
1,723
90
1,866
91
2,021
92
2,187
93
2,371
94
2,569
95
2,782
96
3,014
97
3,263
98
3,538
99
3,832
100
4,152
101
4,497
102
4,871
103
5,277
104
5,716
105
6,194
106
6,708
107
7,267
108
7,872
109
8,529
110
9,239
111
10,005
112
10,842
113
11,744
114
12,723
115
13,782
116
14,929
117
16,175
118
17,521
119
18,981
120
20,560
121
22,275
122
24,126
123
26,139
124
28,316
125
30,670
126
33,227
127
35,995
128
38,992
129
42,241
130
45,760
131
49,571
132
53,698
133
58,171
134
62,812
135
67,449
136
72,092
137
76,728
138
81,369
139
86,008
140 or more
90,649
(h) The effect of the penalty on the operator's ability to continue in business. MSHA presumes that the operator's ability to continue in business will not be affected by the assessment of a civil penalty. The operator may, however, submit information to the District Manager concerning the financial status of the business. If the information provided by the operator indicates that the penalty will adversely affect the operator's ability to continue in business, the penalty may be reduced.
[72 FR 13635, Mar. 22, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 7209, Feb. 7, 2008; 81 FR 43455, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 5383, Jan. 18, 2017; 83 FR 14, Jan. 2, 2018; 84 FR 219, Jan. 23, 2019; 85 FR 2299, Jan. 15, 2020; 86 FR 2970, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 2336, Jan. 14, 2022; 88 FR 2218, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1817, Jan. 11, 2024; 90 FR 1862, Jan. 10, 2025]
§ 100.4
Unwarrantable failure and immediate notification.
(a) The minimum penalty for any citation or order issued under section 104(d)(1) of the Mine Act shall be $3,022.
(b) The minimum penalty for any order issued under section 104(d)(2) of the Mine Act shall be $6,041.
(c) The penalty for failure to provide timely notification to the Secretary under section 103(j) of the Mine Act will be not less than $7,555 and not more than $90,649 for the following accidents:
(1) The death of an individual at the mine, or
(2) An injury or entrapment of an individual at the mine, which has a reasonable potential to cause death.
[72 FR 13635, Mar. 22, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 68919, Dec. 29, 2009; 77 FR 76408, Dec. 28, 2012; 81 FR 43455, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 5383, Jan. 18, 2017; 83 FR 14, Jan. 2, 2018; 84 FR 220, Jan. 23, 2019; 85 FR 2299, Jan. 15, 2020; 86 FR 2970, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 2336, Jan. 14, 2022; 88 FR 2218, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1818, Jan. 11, 2024; 90 FR 1862, Jan. 10, 2025]
§ 100.5
Determination of penalty amount; special assessment.
(a) MSHA may elect to waive the regular assessment under § 100.3 if it determines that conditions warrant a special assessment.
(b) When MSHA determines that a special assessment is appropriate, the proposed penalty will be based on the six criteria set forth in § 100.3(a). All findings shall be in narrative form.
(c) Any operator who fails to correct a violation for which a citation has been issued under Section 104(a) of the Mine Act within the period permitted for its correction may be assessed a civil penalty of not more than $9,820 for each day during which such failure or violation continues.
(d) Any miner who willfully violates the mandatory safety standards relating to smoking or the carrying of smoking materials, matches, or lighters shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $414 for each occurrence of such violation.
(e) Violations that are deemed to be flagrant under section 110(b)(2) of the
Mine Act may be assessed a civil penalty of not more than $332,376. For purposes of this section, a flagrant violation means “a reckless or repeated failure to make reasonable efforts to eliminate a known violation of a mandatory health or safety standard that substantially and proximately caused, or reasonably could have been expected to cause, death or serious bodily injury.”
[72 FR 13635, Mar. 22, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 7210, Feb. 7, 2008; 74 FR 68919, Dec. 29, 2009; 77 FR 76408, Dec. 28, 2012; 81 FR 43456, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 5383, Jan. 18, 2017; 83 FR 14, Jan. 2, 2018; 84 FR 220, Jan. 23, 2019; 85 FR 2299, Jan. 15, 2020; 86 FR 2970, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 2336, Jan. 14, 2022; 88 FR 2218, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1818, Jan. 11, 2024; 90 FR 1862, Jan. 10, 2025]
§ 100.6
Procedures for review of citations and orders; procedures for assessment of civil penalties and conferences.
(a) All parties shall be afforded the opportunity to review with MSHA each citation and order issued during an inspection. It is within the sole discretion of MSHA to grant a request for a conference and to determine the nature of the conference.
(b) Upon notice by MSHA, all parties will have 10 days within which to submit additional information or request a safety and health conference with the District Manager or designee. A conference request may include a request to be notified of, and to participate in, a conference initiated by another party. A conference request must be in writing and must include a brief statement of the reason why each citation or order should be conferenced.
(c) When a conference is conducted, the parties may submit any additional relevant information relating to the violation, either prior to or at the conference. To expedite the conference, the official assigned to the case may contact the parties to discuss the issues involved prior to the conference.
(d) MSHA will consider all relevant information submitted in a timely manner by the parties with respect to the violation. When the facts warrant a finding that no violation occurred, the citation or order will be vacated. Upon conclusion of the conference, or expiration of the conference request period, all citations that are abated and all orders will be promptly referred to MSHA's Office of Assessments. The Office of Assessments will use the citations, orders, and inspector's evaluation as the basis for determining the appropriate amount of a proposed penalty.
§ 100.7
Notice of proposed penalty; notice of contest.
(a) A notice of proposed penalty will be issued and served by certified mail, or the equivalent, upon the party to be charged and by regular mail to the representative of miners at the mine after the time permitted to request a conference under § 100.6 expires, or upon the completion of a conference, or upon review by MSHA of additional information submitted in a timely manner.
(b) Upon receipt of the notice of proposed penalty, the party charged shall have 30 days to either:
(1) Pay the proposed assessment. Acceptance by MSHA of payment tendered by the party charged will close the case.
(2) Notify MSHA in writing of the intention to contest the proposed penalty. When MSHA receives the notice of contest, it advises the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Commission) of such notice. No proposed penalty which has been contested before the Commission shall be compromised, mitigated or settled except with the approval of the Commission.
(c) If the proposed penalty is not paid or contested within 30 days of receipt, the proposed penalty becomes a final order of the Commission and is not subject to review by any court or agency.
§ 100.8
Service.
(a) All operators are required by part 41 (Notification of Legal Identity) of this chapter to file with MSHA the name and address of record of the operator. All representatives of miners are required by part 40 (Representative of Miners) of this chapter to file with MSHA the mailing address of the person or organization acting in a representative capacity. Proposed penalty assessments delivered to those addresses shall constitute service.
(b) If any of the parties choose to have proposed penalty assessments mailed to a different address, the Office of Assessments must be notified in writing of the new address. Delivery to this address shall also constitute service.
(c) Service for operators who fail to file under part 41 of this chapter will be upon the last known business address recorded with MSHA.
PARTS 101-103 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER Q—PATTERN OF VIOLATIONS
Pt. 104

# PART 104—PATTERN OF VIOLATIONS
Sec.
104.1
Purpose and scope.
104.2
Pattern criteria.
104.3
Issuance of notice.
104.4
Termination of notice.

# Authority:
30 U.S.C. 814(e), 957.

# Source:
78 FR 5073, Jan. 23, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 104.1
Purpose and scope.
This part establishes the criteria and procedures for determining whether a mine operator has established a pattern of significant and substantial (S
S) violations at a mine. It implements section 104(e) of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (Mine Act) by addressing mines with an inspection history of recurrent S
S violations of mandatory safety or health standards that demonstrate a mine operator's disregard for the health and safety of miners. The purpose of the procedures in this part is the restoration of effective safe and healthful conditions at such mines.
§ 104.2
Pattern criteria.
(a) At least once each year, MSHA will review the compliance and accident, injury, and illness records of mines to determine if any mines meet the pattern of violations criteria. MSHA's review to identify mines with a pattern of S
S violations will include:
(1) Citations for S
S violations;
(2) Orders under section 104(b) of the Mine Act for not abating S
S violations;
(3) Citations and withdrawal orders under section 104(d) of the Mine Act, resulting from the mine operator's unwarrantable failure to comply;
(4) Imminent danger orders under section 107(a) of the Mine Act;
(5) Orders under section 104(g) of the Mine Act requiring withdrawal of miners who have not received training and who MSHA declares to be a hazard to themselves and others;
(6) Enforcement measures, other than section 104(e) of the Mine Act, that have been applied at the mine;
(7) Other information that demonstrates a serious safety or health management problem at the mine, such as accident, injury, and illness records; and
(8) Mitigating circumstances.
(b) MSHA will post the specific pattern criteria on its Web site.
§ 104.3
Issuance of notice.
(a) When a mine has a pattern of violations, the District Manager will issue a pattern of violations notice to the mine operator that specifies the basis for the Agency's action. The District Manager will also provide a copy of this notice to the representative of miners.
(b) The mine operator shall post the pattern of violations notice issued under this part on the mine bulletin board. The pattern of violations notice shall remain posted at the mine until MSHA terminates it under § 104.4 of this part.
(c) If MSHA finds any S
S violation within 90 days after issuance of the pattern notice, MSHA will issue an order for the withdrawal of all persons from the affected area, except those persons referred to in section 104(c) of the Mine Act, until the violation has been abated.
(d) If a withdrawal order is issued under paragraph (c) of this section, any subsequent S
S violation will result in a withdrawal order that will remain in effect until MSHA determines that the violation has been abated.
§ 104.4
Termination of notice.
(a) Termination of a section 104(e)(1) pattern of violations notice shall occur when an MSHA inspection of the entire mine finds no S
S violations or if MSHA does not issue a withdrawal order in accordance with section 104(e)(1) of the Mine Act within 90 days after the issuance of the pattern of violations notice.
(b) The mine operator may request an inspection of the entire mine or portion of the mine. MSHA will not provide advance notice of the inspection and will determine the scope of the inspection. Inspections of portions of the mine, within 90 days, that together cover the entire mine shall constitute an inspection of the entire mine for the purposes of this part.
PARTS 105-199 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
30 CFR (7-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
30 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
56 Technical correction
30627
56.6000 Amended
2027
56.6000 Regulation at 85 FR 2027 eff. date confirmed
19391
56.6310 (a) and (b) revised; (c) added
2027
56.6310 Regulation at 85 FR 2027 eff. date confirmed
19391
56.6407 (a) and (c) amended
2027
56.6407 Regulation at 85 FR 2027 eff. date confirmed
19391
57 Technical correction
30627
57.6000 Amended
2027
57.6000 Regulation at 85 FR 2027 eff. date confirmed
19391
57.6310 (a) and (b) revised; (c) added
2027
57.6310 Regulation at 85 FR 2027 eff. date confirmed
19391
57.6407 (a)(3) and (b)(2) amended
2027
57.6407 Regulation at 85 FR 2027 eff. date confirmed
19391
57.6604 (b) amended
2027
57.6604 Regulation at 85 FR 2027 eff. date confirmed
19391
75 Policy statement
41364
100.3 (a)(1) introductory text amended; (g) Table XIV revised
2299
100.4 (a), (b), and (c) introductory text amended
2299
100.5 (c), (d), and (e) amended
2299
2021
30 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
100.3 (a)(1) introductory text and (g) table XIV revised
2970
100.4 (a), (b), and (c) introductory text amended
2970
100.5 (c) through (e) amended
2970
2022
30 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
100.3 (a)(1) introductory text amended; (g) table removed; (g) Table 14 added
2336
100.4 (a), (b), and (c) introductory text amended
2336
100.5 (c), (d), and (e) amended
2336
2023
30 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
56.23000—56.23004 (Subpart T) Added
87926
57.23000—57.23004 (Subpart U) Added
87927
77.2100—77.2104 (Subpart V) Added
87928
100 Authority citation revised
2218
100.3 (a)(1) introductory text and (g) Table 4 amended
2218
100.4 (a), (b), (c) introductory text amended
2218
100.5 (c), (d), (e) amended
2218
2024
30 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
18.2 Amended
99104
18.6 (e) amended
99104
18.15 (c) revised
99104
18.101—18.103 (Subpart F) Added
99104
56 Technical correction
52379
56.5001 Introductory text revised
28468
56.5001 Removed; new section redesignated from 56.5001T; eff. 4-8-26
28469
56.5001T Added
28468
56.5001T Redesignated as 56.5001; eff. 4-8-26
28469
56.5005 Introductory text revised
28469
56.5005 Removed; new section redesignated from 56.5005T; eff. 4-8-26
28469
56.5005T Added
28469
56.5005T Redesignated as 56.5005; eff. 4-8-26
28469
57 Technical correction
52379
57.5001 Introductory text revised
28469
57.5001 Removed; new section redesignated from 57.5001T; eff. 4-8-26
28470
57.5001T Added
28469
57.5001T Redesignated as 57.5001; eff. 4-8-26
28470
57.5005 Introductory text revised
28470
57.5005 Removed; new section redesignated from 57.5005T; eff. 4-8-26
28470
57.5005T Added
28470
57.5005T Redesignated as 57.5005; eff. 4-8-26
28470
60 Added
28470
60 Technical correction
52379
70 Technical correction
52379
70.2 Amended
28473
70.101 Removed; eff. 4-14-25
28473
70.201—70.212 (Subpart C) Tables 70-1 and 70-2 removed
28476
70.205 Introductory text added
28473
70.205 Removed; new section redesignated from 70.205T eff. 4-14-25
28474
70.205T Added
28473
70.205T Redesignated as 70.205; eff. 4-14-25
28474
70.206 Removed; eff. 4-14-25
28474
70.207 Removed; eff. 4-14-25
28474
70.208 Introductory text revised
28474
70.208 Removed; new section and Table 1 redesignated from 70.208T and 70.208T Table 1; eff. 4-14-25
28475
70.208T Added
28474
70.208T Section and Table 1 Redesignated as 70.208 and 70.208 Table 1; eff. 4-14-25
28475
70.209 Introductory text revised
28475
70.209 Removed; new section and Table 1 redesignated from 70.209T and 70.209T Table 1; eff. 4-14-25
28476
70.209T Added
28475
70.209T Section and Table 1 Redesignated as 70.209 and 70.209 Table 1; eff. 4-14-25
28476
71 Technical correction
52379
71.2 Amended; eff. 4-14-25
28476
71.101 Removed; eff. 4-14-25
28476
71.205 Introductory text added
28476
71.205 Removed; new section redesignated from 71.205T; eff. 4-14-25
28477
71.205T Added
28476
71.205T Redesignated as 71.205; eff. 4-14-25
28477
71.206 Introductory text added
28477
71.206 Removed; new section and Table 1 redesignated from 71.206T and 71.206T Table 1; eff. 4-14-25
28478
71.206T Added
28477
71.206T Section and Table 1 redesignated as 71.206 and 71.206 Table 1; eff. 4-14-25
28478
71.300 Introductory text added
28478
71.300 Removed; new section redesignated from 71.300T; eff. 4-14-25
28478
71.300T Added
28478
71.300T Redesignated as 71.300; eff. 4-14-25
28478
71.301 Introductory text added
28478
71.301 Removed; new section redesignated from 71.301T; eff. 4-14-25
28479
71.301T Added
28478
71.301T Redesignated as 71.301; eff. 4-14-25
28479
72 Technical correction
52379
72.710 Revised
28479
72.710 Removed; new section redesignated from 71.710T; eff. 4-14-25
28479
72.710T Added
28479
72.710T Redesignated as 71.710; eff. 4-14-25
28479
72.800 Revised
28479
72.800 Removed; new section redesignated from 71.800T; eff. 4-14-25
28479
72.800T Added
28479
72.800T Redesignated as 71.800; eff. 4-14-25
28479
74.5 (b) amended
99105
74.11 (d) amended
99105
75 Technical correction
52379
75.350 Introductory text added
28479
75.350 Removed; new section redesignated from 75.350T; eff. 4-14-25
28480
75.350T Added
28479
75.350T Redesignated as 75.350; eff. 4-14-25
28480
90 Technical correction
52379
90.2 Revised
28480
90.2 Removed; new section redesignated from 90.2T; eff. 4-14-25
28482
90.2T Added
28481
90.2T Redesignated as 90.2; eff. 4-14-25
28482
90.3 Introductory text added
28482
90.3 Removed; new section redesignated from 90.3T; eff. 4-14-25
28482
90.3T Added
28482
90.3T Redesignated as 90.3; eff. 4-14-25
28482
90.100 Introductory text added
28482
90.100 Removed; new section redesignated from 90.100T; eff. 4-14-25
28482
90.100 Correction: Introductory text added
50527
90.100T Added
28482
90.100T Redesignated as 90.100; eff. 4-14-25
28482
90.101 Removed
28482
90.102 Introductory text added
28482
90.102 Removed; new section redesignated from 90.102T; eff. 4-14-25
28483
90.102T Added
28482
90.102T Redesignated as 90.102; eff. 4-14-25
28483
90.104 Revised
28483
90.104 Removed; new section redesignated from 90.104T; eff. 4-14-25
28483
90.104T Added
28483
90.104T Redesignated as 90.104; eff. 4-14-25
28483
90.205 Introductory text added
28483
90.205 Removed; new section redesignated from 90.205T; eff. 4-14-25
28483
90.205T Added
28483
90.205T Redesignated as 90.205; eff. 4-14-25
28484
90.206 Introductory text added
28484
90.206 Removed; new section redesignated from 90.206T; eff. 4-14-25
28484
90.206T Added
28484
90.206T Redesignated as 90.206; eff. 4-14-25
28484
90.207 Introductory text added
28484
90.207 Removed; new section redesignated from 90.207T; eff. 4-14-25
28485
90.207T Added
28484
90.207T Redesignated as 90.207; eff. 4-14-25
28485
90.300 Introductory text added
28485
90.300 Removed; new section redesignated from 90.300T; eff. 4-14-25
28485
90.300T Added
28485
90.300T Redesignated as 90.300; eff. 4-14-25
28485
90.301 Introductory text added
28485
90.301 Removed; new section redesignated from 90.301T; eff. 4-14-25
28485
90.301T Added
28485
90.301T Redesignated as 90.301; eff. 4-14-25
28485
100.3 (a)(1) introductory text amended; (g) Table 14 revised
1817
100.4 (a), (b), and (c) introductory text amended
1818
100.5 (c) through (e) amended
1818
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through July 1, 2025)
30 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter I
100.3 (a)(1) introductory text amended; (g) table 14 revised
1862
100.4 (a), (b), and (c) introductory text amended
1862
100.5 (c) through (e) amended
1862
○
