(3) Operation and maintenance plan for the control device (including a preventative maintenance schedule consistent with the manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance) and continuous monitoring system;
(4) A list of operating parameters that will be monitored to maintain continuous compliance with the applicable emission limits; and
(5) Operating parameter limits based on monitoring data collected during the performance test.
§ 63.11454
What are the monitoring requirements for new and existing sources?
(a) For each monitoring system required by this subpart, you must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain the monitoring system according to the manufacturer's specifications and the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) You must install each sensor of your monitoring system in a location that provides representative measurement of the appropriate parameter over all operating conditions, taking into account the manufacturer's guidelines.
(2) You must perform an initial calibration of your monitoring system based on the manufacturer's recommendations.
(3) You must use a monitoring system that is designed to complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period.
(4) For each existing affected furnace, you must record the value of the monitored parameter at least every 8 hours. The value can be recorded electronically or manually.
(5) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, monitoring system maintenance, and corrective action taken to return the monitoring system to normal operation.
(6) At all times, you must maintain your monitoring system including, but not limited to, maintaining necessary parts for routine repairs of the system.
(7) You must perform the required monitoring whenever the affected furnace meets the conditions specified in paragraph (a)(7)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) The furnace is being charged with one or more of the glass manufacturing metal HAP as raw materials.
(ii) The furnace is in transition between producing glass that contains one or more of the glass metal HAP as raw materials and glass that does not contain any of the glass manufacturing metal HAP as raw materials. The transition period begins when the furnace is charged with raw materials that do not contain any of the glass manufacturing metal HAP as raw materials and ends when the furnace begins producing a saleable glass product that does not contain any of the glass manufacturing metal HAP as raw materials.
(b) For each existing furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is controlled with an ESP, you must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) You must monitor the secondary voltage and secondary electrical current to each field of the ESP according to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, or
(2) You must submit a request for alternative monitoring, as described in paragraph (g) of this section.
(c) For each existing furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is controlled with a fabric filter, you must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) You must monitor the inlet temperature to the fabric filter according to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, or
(2) You must submit a request for alternative monitoring, as described in paragraph (g) of this section.
(d) For each new furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is controlled with an ESP, you must monitor the voltage and electrical current to each field of the ESP on a continuous basis using one or more CPMS according to the requirements for CPMS specified in § 63.11453(d).
(e) For each new furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is controlled with a fabric filter, you must install and operate a bag leak detection system according to the requirements specified in § 63.11453(c).
(f) For each new or existing furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is equipped with a control device other than an ESP or fabric filter, you must meet the requirements in § 63.8(f) and submit a request for approval of alternative monitoring methods to the Administrator no later than the submittal date for the Notification of Compliance Status, as specified in § 63.11456(b). The request must contain the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Description of the alternative add-on air pollution control device (APCD).
(2) Type of monitoring device or method that will be used, including the sensor type, location, inspection procedures, quality assurance and quality control (QA/QC) measures, and data recording device.
(3) Operating parameters that will be monitored.
(4) Frequency that the operating parameter values will be measured and recorded.
(5) Procedures for inspecting the condition and operation of the control device and monitoring system.
(g) If you wish to use a monitoring method other than those specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (c)(1) of this section, you must meet the requirements in § 63.8(f) and submit a request for approval of alternative monitoring methods to the Administrator no later than the submittal date for the Notification of Compliance Status, as specified in § 63.11456(b). The request must contain
the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Type of monitoring device or method that will be used, including the sensor type, location, inspection procedures, QA/QC measures, and data recording device.
(2) Operating parameters that will be monitored.
(3) Frequency that the operating parameter values will be measured and recorded.
(4) Procedures for inspecting the condition and operation of the monitoring system.
(5) Explanation for how the alternative monitoring method will provide assurance that the emission control device is operating properly.
§ 63.11455
What are the continuous compliance requirements for new and existing sources?
(a) You must be in compliance with the applicable emission limits in this subpart at all times, except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction.
(b) You must always operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control and monitoring equipment, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(1)(i).
(c) For each affected furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, you must monitor the performance of the furnace emission control device under the conditions specified in § 63.11454(a)(7) and according to the requirements in §§ 63.6(e)(1) and 63.8(c) and paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) For each existing affected furnace that is controlled with an ESP, you must monitor the parameters specified in § 63.11454(b) in accordance with the requirements of § 63.11454(a) or as specified in your approved alternative monitoring plan.
(2) For each new affected furnace that is controlled with an ESP, you must comply with the monitoring requirements specified in § 63.11454(d) in accordance with the requirements of § 63.11454(a) or as specified in your approved alternative monitoring plan.
(3) For each existing affected furnace that is controlled with a fabric filter, you must monitor the parameter specified in § 63.11454(c) in accordance with the requirements of § 63.11454(a) or as specified in your approved alternative monitoring plan.
(4) For each new affected furnace that is controlled with a fabric filter, you must comply with the monitoring requirements specified in § 63.11454(e) in accordance with the requirements of § 63.11454(a) or as specified in your approved alternative monitoring plan.
(5) For each affected furnace that is controlled with a device other than a fabric filter or ESP, you must comply with the requirements of your approved alternative monitoring plan, as required in § 63.11454(g).
(6) For each monitoring system that is required under this subpart, you must keep the records specified in § 63.11457.
(d) Following the initial inspections, you must perform periodic inspections and maintenance of each affected furnace control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) For each fabric filter, you must conduct inspections at least every 12 months according to paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must inspect the ductwork and fabric filter unit for leakage.
(ii) You must inspect the interior of the fabric filter for structural integrity and to determine the condition of the fabric filter.
(iii) If an initial inspection is not required, as specified in § 63.11453(b)(3)(i), the first inspection must not be more than 12 months from the last inspection.
(2) For each ESP, you must conduct inspections according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct visual inspections of the system ductwork, housing unit, and hopper for leaks at least every 12 months.
(ii) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the ESP to determine the condition and integrity of corona wires, collection plates, plate rappers, hopper, and air diffuser plates every 24 months.
(iii) If an initial inspection is not required, as specified in § 63.11453(b)(3)(ii), the first inspection must not be more
than 24 months from the last inspection.
(3) You must record the results of each periodic inspection specified in this section in a logbook (written or electronic format), as specified in § 63.11457(c).
(4) If the results of a required inspection indicate a problem with the operation of the emission control system, you must take immediate corrective action to return the control device to normal operation according to the equipment manufacturer's specifications or instructions.
(e) For each affected furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart and can meet the applicable emission limit without the use of a control device, you must demonstrate continuous compliance by satisfying the applicable recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.11457.

# Notifications and Records
§ 63.11456
What are the notification requirements?
(a) If you own or operate an affected furnace, as defined in § 63.11449(a), you must submit an Initial Notification in accordance with § 63.9(b) and paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section by the dates specified.
(1) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you start up your affected source before December 26, 2007, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than April 24, 2008 or within 120 days after your affected source becomes subject to the standard.
(2) The Initial Notification must include the information specified in § 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (iv).
(b) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.9(h) and the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) If you own or operate an affected furnace and are required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status, including the performance test results, before the close of business on the 60th day following the completion of the performance test, according to § 60.8 or § 63.10(d)(2).
(2) If you own or operate an affected furnace and satisfy the conditions specified in § 63.11452(a)(2) and are not required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status, including the results of the previous performance test, before the close of business on the compliance date specified in § 63.11450.
§ 63.11457
What are the recordkeeping requirements?
(a) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) A copy of any Initial Notification and Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted and all documentation supporting those notifications, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).
(2) The records specified in § 63.10(b)(2) and (c)(1) through (13).
(3) The records required to show continuous compliance with each emission limit that applies to you, as specified in § 63.11455.
(4) For each affected source, records of production rate on a process throughput basis (either feed rate to the process unit or discharge rate from the process unit). The production data must include the amount (weight or weight percent) of each ingredient in the batch formulation, including all glass manufacturing metal HAP compounds.
(5) Records of maintenance activities and inspections performed on control devices as specified in §§ 63.11453(b) and 63.11455(d), according to paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) The date, place, and time of inspections of control device ductwork, interior, and operation.
(ii) Person conducting the inspection.
(iii) Technique or method used to conduct the inspection.
(iv) Control device operating conditions during the time of the inspection.
(v) Results of the inspection and description of any corrective action taken.
(6) Records of all required monitoring data and supporting information including all calibration and maintenance records.
(7) For each bag leak detection system, the records specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Records of the bag leak detection system output;
(ii) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection system settings; and
(iii) The date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the actions taken, the date and time the cause of the alarm was alleviated, and whether the alarm was alleviated within 3 hours of the alarm.
(8) Records of any approved alternative monitoring method(s) or test procedure(s).
(b) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1).
(c) You must record the results of each inspection and maintenance action in a logbook (written or electronic format). You must keep the logbook onsite and make the logbook available to the permitting authority upon request.
(d) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for a minimum of 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record.
You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining three years.

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11458
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
You must satisfy the requirements of the General Provisions in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, as specified in Table 2 to this subpart.
§ 63.11459
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in § 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Air pollution control device (APCD)
means any equipment that reduces the quantity of a pollutant that is emitted to the air.
Continuous furnace
means a glass manufacturing furnace that operates continuously except during periods of maintenance, malfunction, control device installation, reconstruction, or rebuilding.
Cullet
means recycled glass that is mixed with raw materials and charged to a glass melting furnace to produce glass. Cullet is not considered to be a raw material for the purposes of this subpart.
Electrostatic precipitator (ESP)
means an APCD that removes PM from an exhaust gas stream by applying an electrical charge to particles in the gas stream and collecting the charged particles on plates carrying the opposite electrical charge.
Fabric filter
means an APCD used to capture PM by filtering a gas stream through filter media.
Furnace stack
means a conduit or conveyance through which emissions from the furnace melter are released to the atmosphere.
Glass manufacturing metal HAP
means an oxide or other compound of any of the following metals included in the list of urban HAP for the Integrated Urban Air Toxics Strategy and for which Glass Manufacturing was listed as an area source category: arsenic, cadmium, chromium, lead, manganese, and nickel.
Glass melting furnace
means a unit comprising a refractory-lined vessel in which raw materials are charged and melted at high temperature to produce molten glass.
Identical furnaces
means two or more furnaces that are identical in design, including manufacturer, dimensions, production capacity, charging method, operating temperature, fuel type, burner configuration, and exhaust system configuration and design.
Particulate matter (PM)
means, for purposes of this subpart, emissions of PM that serve as a measure of filterable particulate emissions, as measured by Methods 5 or 17 (40 CFR part 60, appendices A-3 and A-6), and as a surrogate for glass manufacturing metal HAP compounds contained in the PM
including, but not limited to, arsenic, cadmium, chromium, lead, manganese, and nickel.
Plant site
means all contiguous or adjoining property that is under common control, including properties that are separated only by a road or other public right-of-way. Common control includes properties that are owned, leased, or operated by the same entity, parent entity, subsidiary, or any combination thereof.
Raw material
means minerals, such as silica sand, limestone, and dolomite; inorganic chemical compounds, such as soda ash (sodium carbonate), salt cake (sodium sulfate), and potash (potassium carbonate); metal oxides and other metal-based compounds, such as lead oxide, chromium oxide, and sodium antimonate; metal ores, such as chromite and pyrolusite; and other substances that are intentionally added to a glass manufacturing batch and melted in a glass melting furnace to produce glass. Metals that are naturally-occurring trace constituents or contaminants of other substances are not considered to be raw materials. Cullet and material that is recovered from a furnace control device for recycling into the glass formulation are not considered to be raw materials for the purposes of this subpart.
Research and development process unit
means a process unit whose purpose is to conduct research and development for new processes and products and is not engaged in the manufacture of products for commercial sale, except in a de minimis manner.
§ 63.11460
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the applicability requirements in §§ 63.11448 and 63.11449, the compliance date requirements in § 63.11450, and the emission limits specified in § 63.11451.
(2) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f) and as defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping under § 63.10(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
§ 63.11461
[Reserved]
Pt. 63, Subpt. SSSSSS, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart SSSSSS of Part 63—Emission Limits
As required in § 63.11451, you must comply with each emission limit that applies to you according to the following table:
For each. . .
You must meet one of the following emission limits. . .
1. New or existing glass melting furnace that produces glass at an annual rate of at least 45 Mg/yr (50 tpy) AND is charged with compounds of arsenic, cadmium, chromium, manganese, lead, or nickel as raw materials
a. The 3-hour block average production-based PM mass emission rate must not exceed 0.1 gram per kilogram (g/kg) (0.2 pound per ton (lb/ton)) of glass produced; OR
b. The 3-hour block average production-based metal HAP mass emission rate must not exceed 0.01 g/kg (0.02 lb/ton) of glass produced.
Pt. 63, Subpt. SSSSSS, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart SSSSSS of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart SSSSSS
As stated in § 63.11458, you must comply with the requirements of the NESHAP General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A), as shown in the following table:
Citation
Subject
§ 63.1(a), (b), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)
Applicability.
§ 63.2
Definitions.
§ 63.3
Units and Abbreviations.
§ 63.4
Prohibited Activities.
§ 63.5
Construction/Reconstruction.
§ 63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (b)(7), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)(1), (f), (g), (i), (j)
Compliance with Standards and Maintenance Requirements.
§ 63.7
Performance Testing Requirements.
§ 63.8(a)(1), (a)(2), (b), (c)(1)-(c)(4), (c)(7)(i)(B), (c)(7)(ii), (c)(8), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4), (f)
Monitoring Requirements.
§ 63.9(a), (b)(1)(i)-(b)(2)(v), (b)(5), (c), (d), (h)-(j)
Notification Requirements.
§ 63.10(a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(i)-(b)(2)(xii)
Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), (c), (f)
Documentation for Initial Notification and Notification of Compliance Status.
§ 63.12
State Authority and Delegations.
§ 63.13
Addresses.
§ 63.14
Incorporations by Reference.
§ 63.15
Availability of Information.
§ 63.16
Performance Track Provisions.

# Subpart TTTTTT—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Nonferrous Metals Processing Area Sources

# Source:
72 FR 73207, Dec. 26, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11462
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a secondary nonferrous metals processing facility (as defined in § 63.11472) that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions.
(b) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.
§ 63.11463
What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?
(a) This subpart applies to any existing or new affected source located at a secondary nonferrous metals processing facility.
(b) The affected source includes all crushing and screening operations at a secondary zinc processing facility and all furnace melting operations located at any secondary nonferrous metals processing facilities.
(c) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before September 20, 2007.
(d) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after September 20, 2007.
§ 63.11464
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with the standards no later than December 26, 2007.
(b) If you have a new affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
(1) If you start up your affected source on or before December 26, 2007, you must comply with this subpart no later than December 26, 2007.
(2) If you start up your affected source after December 26, 2007, you must comply with this subpart upon initial startup of your affected source.

# Standards, Compliance, and Monitoring Requirements
§ 63.11465
What are the standards for new and existing sources?
(a) You must route the emissions from each existing affected source through a fabric filter or baghouse that
achieves a particulate matter (PM) control efficiency of at least 99.0 percent or an outlet PM concentration limit of 0.034 grams per dry standard cubic meter (g/dscm)(0.015 grains per dry standard cubic feet (gr/dscf)).
(b) You must route the emissions from each new affected source through a fabric filter or baghouse that achieves a PM control efficiency of at least 99.5 percent or an outlet PM concentration limit of 0.023 g/dscm (0.010 gr/dscf).
§ 63.11466
What are the performance test requirements for new and existing sources?
(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, if you own or operate an existing or new affected source, you must conduct a performance test for each affected source within 180 days of your compliance date and report the results in your notification of compliance status.
(b) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you are not required to conduct a performance test if a prior performance test was conducted within the past 5 years of the compliance date using the same methods specified in paragraph (c) of this section and you meet either of the following two conditions:
(1) No process changes have been made since the test; or
(2) You demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.
(c) You must conduct each performance test according to the requirements in § 63.7 and paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Determine the concentration of PM according to the following test methods in 40 CFR part 60, appendices:
(i) Method 1 or 1A (Appendix A-1) to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.
(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2F, or 2G (Appendices A-1 and A-2) to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.
(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B (Appendix A-2) to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses” (incorporated by reference-see § 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.
(iv) Method 4 (Appendix A-3) to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.
(v) Method 5 or 17 (Appendix A-3) to determine the concentration of particulate matter (front half filterable catch only). Three valid test runs are needed to comprise a performance test.
(2) During the test, you must operate each emissions source within ±10 percent of its normal process rate. You must monitor and record the process rate during the test.
§ 63.11467
What are the initial compliance demonstration requirements for new and existing sources?
(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable standards in § 63.11465 by submitting a Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.11469(b).
(b) You must conduct the inspection specified in paragraph (c) of this section and include the results of the inspection in the Notification of Compliance Status.
(c) For each existing and new affected source, you must conduct an initial inspection of each baghouse. You must visually inspect the system ductwork and baghouse unit for leaks. Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, you must also inspect the inside of each baghouse for structural integrity and fabric filter condition. You must record the results of the inspection and any maintenance action as required in § 63.11470.
(d) For each installed baghouse that is in operation during the 60 days after the applicable compliance date, you must conduct the inspection specified in paragraph (c) of this section no later than 60 days after your applicable compliance date. For an installed baghouse that is not in operation during the 60 days after the applicable compliance date, you must conduct an initial inspection prior to startup of the baghouse.
(e) An initial inspection of the internal components of a baghouse is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 12 months.
(f) If you own or operate an existing affected source and are not required to conduct a performance test under § 63.11466, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status within 120 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11464.
(g) If you own or operate an existing affected source and are required to conduct a performance test under § 63.11466, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status within 60 days after completing the performance test.
§ 63.11468
What are the monitoring requirements for new and existing sources?
(a) For an existing affected source, you must demonstrate compliance by conducting the monitoring activities in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section:
(1) You must perform periodic inspections and maintenance of each baghouse according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct weekly visual inspections of the system ductwork for leaks.
(ii) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the baghouse for structural integrity and to determine the condition of the fabric filter every 12 months.
(2) As an alternative to the monitoring requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you may demonstrate compliance by conducting a daily 30-minute visible emissions (VE) test (i.e., no visible emissions) using EPA Method 22 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).
(b) If the results of the visual inspection or VE test conducted under paragraph (a) of this section indicate a problem with the operation of the baghouse, including but not limited to air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in PM emissions, you must take immediate corrective action to return the baghouse to normal operation according to the equipment manufacturer's specifications or instructions and record the corrective action taken.
(c) For each new affected source, you must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system according to paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Each bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.
(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 1 milligram per dry standard cubic meter (0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.
(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative PM loadings. The owner or operator shall continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using electronic or other means (e.g., using a strip chart recorder or a data logger).
(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound when the system detects an increase in relative particulate loading over the alarm set point established according to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, and the alarm must be located such that it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.
(iv) In the initial adjustment of the bag leak detection system, you must establish, at a minimum, the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, the alarm set points, and the alarm delay time.
(v) Following initial adjustment, you shall not adjust the averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time without approval from the Administrator or delegated authority except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(vi) of this section.
(vi) Once per quarter, you may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects, including temperature and humidity, according to the procedures identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(vii) You must install the bag leak detection sensor downstream of the fabric filter.
(viii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(2) You must develop and submit to the Administrator or delegated authority for approval a site-specific monitoring plan for each bag leak detection system. You must operate and maintain the bag leak detection system according to the site-specific monitoring plan at all times. Each monitoring plan must describe the items in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system;
(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system, including how the alarm set-point will be established;
(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system, including quality assurance procedures;
(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained, including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list;
(v) How the bag leak detection system output will be recorded and stored; and
(vi) Corrective action procedures as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. In approving the site-specific monitoring plan, the Administrator or delegated authority may allow owners and operators more than 3 hours to alleviate a specific condition that causes an alarm if the owner or operator identifies in the monitoring plan this specific condition as one that could lead to an alarm, adequately explains why it is not feasible to alleviate this condition within 3 hours of the time the alarm occurs, and demonstrates that the requested time will ensure alleviation of this condition as expeditiously as practicable.
(3) For each bag leak detection system, you must initiate procedures to determine the cause of every alarm within 1 hour of the alarm. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section, you must alleviate the cause of the alarm within 3 hours of the alarm by taking whatever corrective action(s) are necessary. Corrective actions may include, but are not limited to the following:
(i) Inspecting the fabric filter for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in PM emissions;
(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media;
(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device;
(iv) Sealing off a defective fabric filter compartment;
(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system; or
(vi) Shutting down the process producing the PM emissions.
§ 63.11469
What are the notification requirements?
(a) You must submit the Initial Notification required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than 120 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11464, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The Initial Notification must include the information specified in § 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (iv) and may be combined with the Notification of Compliance Status required in § 63.11467 and paragraph (b) of this section if you choose to submit both notifications within 120 days.
(b) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.9(h) and the requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. In addition to the information required in §§ 63.9(h)(2), 63.11466, and 63.11467, your notification must include the following certification(s) of compliance, as applicable, and signature of a responsible official:
(1) This certification of compliance by the owner or operator of an existing affected source who is relying on a previous performance test: “This facility complies with the control efficiency requirement [or the outlet concentration limit] in § 63.11465 based on a previous performance test in accordance with § 63.11466.”
(2) This certification of compliance by the owner or operator of any new or existing affected source: “This facility has conducted an initial inspection of
each control device according to the requirements in § 63.11467, will conduct periodic inspections and maintenance of control devices in accordance with § 63.11468, and will maintain records of each inspection and maintenance action required by § 63.11470.”
(3) This certification of compliance by the owner or operator of a new affected source: “This facility has an approved bag leak detection system monitoring plan in accordance with § 63.11468(c)(2).”
(c) If you own or operate an affected source and are required to conduct a performance test under § 63.11466, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status, including the performance test results, before the close of business on the 60th day following the completion of the performance test.
(d) If you own or operate an affected source and are not required to conduct a performance test under § 63.11466, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status, including the results of the previous performance test, no later than 120 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11464.
[72 FR 73207, Dec. 26, 2007, as amended at 85 FR 73921, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.11470
What are the recordkeeping requirements?
(a) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) As required in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), you must keep a copy of each notification that you submitted to comply with this subpart and all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted.
(2) You must keep the records of all inspection and monitoring data required by §§ 63.11467 and 63.11468, and the information identified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(v) for each required inspection or monitoring.
(i) The date, place, and time;
(ii) Person conducting the activity;
(iii) Technique or method used;
(iv) Operating conditions during the activity; and
(v) Results.
(b) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1).
(c) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each recorded action.
(d) You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each recorded action according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining three years.

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11471
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
Table 1 to this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in §§ 63.1 through 63.16 apply to you.
§ 63.11472
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in § 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Bag leak detection system
means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring relative particulate matter (dust loadings) in the exhaust of a baghouse to detect bag leaks and other upset conditions. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effect to continuously monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
Furnace melting operation
means the collection of processes used to charge post-consumer nonferrous scrap material to a furnace, melt the material, and transfer the molten material to a forming medium.
Secondary nonferrous metals processing facility
means a brass and bronze ingot making, secondary magnesium processing, or secondary zinc processing plant that uses furnace melting operations to melt post-consumer nonferrous metal scrap to make products including bars, ingots, blocks, or metal powders.
§ 63.11473
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA
Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that will not be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the applicability requirements in §§ 63.11462 and 63.11463, the compliance date requirements in § 63.11464, and the applicable standards in § 63.11465.
(2) Approval of a major change to a test method under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
§ 63.11474
[Reserved]
Pt. 63, Subpt. TTTTTT, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart TTTTTT of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart TTTTTT
As stated in § 63.11471, you must comply with the requirements of the NESHAP General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) shown in the following table:
Citation
Subject
63.1(a)(1)-(a)(4), (a)(6), (a)(10)-(a)(12), (b)(1), (b)(3), (c)(1),
1
(c)(2), (c)(5), (e)
Applicability.
63.2
Definitions.
63.3
Units and Abbreviations.
63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention.
63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (b)(7), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)(1), (f), (g), (i), (j)
Compliance With Standards and Maintenance Requirements.
63.7
Performance Testing Requirements
63.8(a)(1), (a)(2), (b), (c)(1)(i)-(c)(1)(ii), (c)(2), (c)(3), (f)
Monitoring Requirements.
63.9(a), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(5), (c), (d), (h)(1)-(h)(3), (h)(5), (h)(6), (i), (j)
Notification Requirements.
63.10(a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(vii), (b)(2)(xiv), (b)(3), (c), (f)
Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements.
63.12
State Authority and Delegations.
63.13
Addresses.
63.14
Incorporations by Reference.
63.15
Availability of Information and Confidentiality.
63.16
Performance Track Provisions.
1
Section 63.11462(b) of this subpart exempts area sources from the obligation to obtain title V operating permits.
Subpart UUUUUU [Reserved]

# Subpart VVVVVV—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Manufacturing Area Sources

# Source:
74 FR 56041, Oct. 29, 2009, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11494
What are the applicability requirements and compliance dates?
(a) Except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, you are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a chemical manufacturing process unit (CMPU) that meets the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The CMPU is located at an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions.
(2) HAP listed in Table 1 to this subpart (Table 1 HAP) are present in the CMPU, as specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section.
(i) The CMPU uses as feedstock, any material that contains quinoline, manganese, and/or trivalent chromium at an individual concentration greater than 1.0 percent by weight, or any other Table 1 HAP at an individual concentration greater than 0.1 percent by weight. To determine the Table 1 HAP content of feedstocks, you may rely on formulation data provided by the manufacturer or supplier, such as the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for the material. If the concentration in an MSDS is presented as a range, use the upper bound of the range.
(ii) Quinoline is generated as byproduct and is present in the CMPU in any liquid stream (process or waste) at a concentration greater than 1.0 percent by weight.
(iii) Hydrazine and/or Table 1 organic HAP other than quinoline are generated as byproduct and are present in the CMPU in any liquid stream (process or waste), continuous process vent, or batch process vent at an individual concentration greater than 0.1 percent by weight.
(iv) Hydrazine or any Table 1 HAP is produced as a product of the CMPU.
(b) A CMPU includes all process vessels, equipment, and activities necessary to operate a chemical manufacturing process that produces a material or a family of materials described by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code 325. A CMPU consists of one or more unit operations and any associated recovery devices. A CMPU also includes each storage tank, transfer operation, surge control vessel, and bottoms receiver associated with the production of such NAICS code 325 materials.
(c) This subpart does not apply to the operations specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) Affected sources under the following chemical manufacturing area source categories listed pursuant to Clean Air Act (CAA) section 112(c)(3) and 112(k)(3)(B)(ii) that are subject to area source standards under this part:
(i) Manufacture of Paint and Allied Products, subject to subpart CCCCCCC of this part.
(ii) Mercury Emissions from Mercury Cell Chlor-Alkali Plants, subject to subpart IIIII of this part.
(iii) Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production, subject to subpart DDDDDD of this part.
(iv) Acrylic and Modacrylic Fibers Production, subject to subpart LLLLLL of this part.
(v) Carbon Black Production, subject to subpart MMMMMM of this part.
(vi) Chemical Manufacturing Area Sources: Chromium Compounds, subject to subpart NNNNNN of this part.
(vii) Lead oxide production at Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Facilities, subject to subpart PPPPPP of this part.
(2) Production of the following chemical manufacturing materials described in NAICS code 325:
(i) Manufacture of radioactive elements or isotopes, radium chloride, radium luminous compounds, strontium, uranium.
(ii) Manufacture of photographic film, paper, and plate where the material is coated with or contains chemicals. This subpart does apply to the manufacture of photographic chemicals.
(iii) Fabricating operations (such as spinning or compressing a solid polymer into its end use); compounding operations (in which blending, melting, and resolidification of a solid polymer product occurs for the purpose of incorporating additives, colorants, or stabilizers); and extrusion and drawing operations (converting an already produced solid polymer into a different shape by melting or mixing the polymer and then forcing it or pulling it through an orifice to create an extruded product). An operation is subject if it involves processing with Table 1 HAP solvent or if an intended purpose of the operation is to remove residual Table 1 HAP monomer.
(iv) Manufacture of chemicals classified in NAICS code 325222, 325314, 325413, or 325998.
(3) Research and development facilities, as defined in CAA section 112(c)(7).
(4) Quality assurance/quality control laboratories.
(5) Ancillary activities, as defined in § 63.11502(b).
(6) Metal HAP in structures or existing as articles as defined in 40 CFR 372.3.
(d) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source. The affected source is the facility-wide collection of CMPUs and each heat exchange system and wastewater system associated with a CMPU that meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. A CMPU using only Table 1 organic HAP is required to control only total CAA section 112(b) organic HAP. A CMPU using only Table 1 metal HAP is required to control only total CAA section 112(b) metal HAP in accordance with § 63.11495 and, if applicable, § 63.11496(f).
(1) An affected source is an existing source if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source before October 6, 2008.
(2) An affected source is a new source if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after October 6, 2008.
(e) Any area source that installed a federally-enforceable control device on an affected CMPU is required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 if the control device on the affected CMPU is necessary to maintain the source's emissions at area source levels. For new and existing sources subject to this rule on December 21, 2012 and subject to title V as a result of this rule, a complete title V permit application must be submitted no later than December 21, 2013. New and existing sources that become subject to this rule after December 21, 2012 must submit a complete title V permit application no later than 12 months after becoming subject to this rule if the source is subject to title V as a result of this rule. Otherwise, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
(f) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart no later than March 21, 2013.
(g) If you start up a new affected source on or before October 29, 2009, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart no later than October 29, 2009.
(h) If you start up a new affected source after October 29, 2009, you must achieve compliance with the provisions in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.
[74 FR 56041, Oct. 29, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 75756, Dec. 21, 2012]

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11495
What are the management practices and other requirements?
(a)
Management practices.
If you have a CMPU subject to this subpart, you must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Each process vessel must be equipped with a cover or lid that must be closed at all times when it is in organic HAP service or metal HAP service, except for manual operations that require access, such as material addition and removal, inspection, sampling and cleaning. This requirement does not apply to process vessels containing only metal HAP that are in a liquid solution or other form that will not result in particulate emissions of metal HAP (e.g., metal HAP that is in ingot, paste, slurry, or moist pellet form or other form).
(2) You must use any of the methods listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section to control total organic HAP emissions from transfer of liquids containing Table 1 organic HAP to tank trucks or railcars. You are not required to comply with this paragraph (a)(2) if you have notified the Administrator in your initial notification that a material is reactive or resinous, and you will not be able to comply with any of the methods in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section for the transfer of such material.
(i) Use submerged loading or bottom loading.
(ii) Route emissions to a fuel gas system or process in accordance with § 63.982(d) of subpart SS.
(iii) Vapor balance back to the storage tank or another storage tank connected by a common header.
(iv) Vent through a closed-vent system to a control device.
(3) You must conduct inspections of process vessels and equipment for each CMPU in organic HAP service or metal HAP service, as specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (v) of this section, to demonstrate compliance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section and to determine that the process vessels and equipment are sound and free of leaks. Alternatively, except when the subject CMPU contains metal HAP as particulate, inspections may be conducted while the subject process vessels and equipment are in VOC service, provided that leaks can be detected when in VOC service.
(i) Inspections must be conducted at least quarterly.
(ii) For these inspections, detection methods incorporating sight, sound, or smell are acceptable. Indications of a leak identified using such methods constitute a leak unless you demonstrate that the indications of a leak are due to a condition other than loss of HAP. If indications of a leak are determined not to be HAP in one quarterly monitoring period, you must still perform the inspection and demonstration in the next quarterly monitoring period.
(iii) As an alternative to conducting inspections, as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, you may use Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, with a leak definition of 500 ppmv to detect leaks. You may also use Method 21 with a leak definition of 500 ppmv to determine if indications of a leak identified during an inspection conducted in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section are due to a condition other than loss of HAP. The procedures in this paragraph (a)(3)(iii) may not be used as an alternative to the inspection required by paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section for process vessels that contain metal HAP as particulate.
(iv) Inspections must be conducted while the subject CMPU is operating.
(v) No inspection is required in a calendar quarter during which the subject CMPU does not operate for the entire calendar quarter and is not in organic HAP service or metal HAP service. If the CMPU operates at all during a calendar quarter, an inspection is required.
(4) You must repair any leak within 15 calendar days after detection of the leak, or document the reason for any delay of repair. For the purposes of this paragraph (a)(4), a leak will be considered “repaired” if a condition specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section is met.
(i) The visual, audible, olfactory, or other indications of a leak to the atmosphere have been eliminated, or
(ii) No bubbles are observed at potential leak sites during a leak check using soap solution, or
(iii) The system will hold a test pressure.
(5) You must keep records of the dates and results of each inspection event, the dates of equipment repairs, and, if applicable, the reasons for any delay in repair.
(b)
Small heat exchange systems.
For each heat exchange system subject to this subpart with a cooling water flow rate less than 8,000 gallons per minute (gal/min) and not meeting one or more of the conditions in § 63.104(a), you must comply with paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, or as an alternative, you may comply with any one of the requirements in Item 1.a or 1.b of Table 8 to this subpart.
(1) You must develop and operate in accordance with a heat exchange system inspection plan. The plan must describe the inspections to be performed that will provide evidence of hydrocarbons in the cooling water. Among other things, inspections may include checks for visible floating hydrocarbon on the water, hydrocarbon odor, discolored water, and/or chemical addition rates. You must conduct inspections at least once per quarter, even if the previous inspection determined that the indications of a leak did not constitute a leak as defined by § 63.104(b)(6).
(2) You must perform repairs to eliminate the leak and any indications of a leak or demonstrate that the HAP concentration in the cooling water
does not constitute a leak, as defined by § 63.104(b)(6), within 45 calendar days after indications of the leak are identified, or you must document the reason for any delay of repair in your next semiannual compliance report.
(3) You must keep records of the dates and results of each inspection, documentation of any demonstrations that indications of a leak do not constitute a leak, the dates of leak repairs, and, if applicable, the reasons for any delay in repair.
(c)
Startup, shutdown and malfunction.
Startup, shutdown, and malfunction (SSM) provisions in subparts that are referenced in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply.
(d)
General duty.
At all times, you must operate and maintain any affected CMPU, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator, which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the CMPU.
[74 FR 56041, Oct. 29, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 75756, Dec. 21, 2012]
§ 63.11496
What are the standards and compliance requirements for process vents?
(a)
Organic HAP emissions from batch process vents.
You must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section for organic HAP emissions from your batch process vents for each CMPU using Table 1 organic HAP. If uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from all batch process vents from a CMPU subject to this subpart are equal to or greater than 10,000 pounds per year (lb/yr), you must also comply with the emission limits and other requirements in Table 2 to this subpart.
(1) You must determine the sum of actual organic HAP emissions from all of your batch process vents within a CMPU subject to this subpart using process knowledge, engineering assessment, or test data. Emissions for a standard batch in a process may be used to represent actual emissions from each batch in that process. You must maintain records of the calculations. Calculations of annual emissions are not required if you meet the emission standards for batch process vents in Table 2 to this subpart.
(2) As an alternative to calculating actual emissions for each affected CMPU at your facility, you may elect to estimate emissions for each CMPU based on the emissions for the worst-case CMPU. The worst-case CMPU means the CMPU at the affected source with the highest organic HAP emissions per batch. The worst-case emissions per batch are used with the number of batches run for other affected CMPU. Process knowledge, engineering assessment, or test data may be used to identify the worst-case process. You must keep records of the information and procedures used to identify the worst-case process.
(3) If your current estimate is that emissions from batch process vents from a CMPU are less than 10,000 pounds per year (lb/yr), then you must keep a record of the number of batches of each process operated per month. Also, you must reevaluate your total emissions from batch process vents prior to making any process changes that affect emission calculations in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. If projected emissions increase to 10,000 lb/yr or more, you must be in compliance options for batch process vents in Table 2 to this subpart upon initiating operation under the new operating conditions. You must maintain records documenting the results of all updated emissions calculations.
(4) As an alternative to determining the HAP emissions, you may elect to demonstrate that the amount of organic HAP used in the process is less than 10,000 lb/yr. You must keep monthly records of the organic HAP usage.
(b)
Organic HAP emissions from continuous process vents.
You must comply with the requirements in paragraphs
(b)(1) through (3) of this section for organic HAP emissions from your continuous process vents for each CMPU subject to this subpart using Table 1 organic HAP. If the total resource-effectiveness (TRE) index value for a continuous process vent is less than or equal to 1.0, you must also comply with the emission limits and other requirements in Table 3 to this subpart.
(1) You must determine the TRE index value according to the procedures in § 63.115(d), except as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You are not required to calculate the TRE index value if you control emissions in accordance with Table 3 to this subpart.
(ii) Sections 63.115(d)(1)(i) and (ii) are not applicable for the purposes of this paragraph (b)(1)(ii).
(iii) You may assume the TRE for a vent stream is
1.0 if the amount of organic HAP emitted in the vent stream is less than 0.1 pound per hour.
(2) If the current TRE index value is greater than 1, you must recalculate the TRE index value before you make any process or operational change that affects parameters in the calculation. If the recalculated TRE is less than or equal to 1.0, then you must comply with one of the compliance options for continuous process vents in Table 3 to this subpart before operating under the new operating conditions. You must maintain records of all TRE calculations.
(3) If a recovery device as defined in § 63.11502 is used to maintain the TRE index value at a level greater than 1.0 and less than or equal to 4.0, you must comply with § 63.982(e) and the requirements specified therein.
(c)
Combined streams.
If you combine organic HAP emissions from batch process vents and continuous process vents, you must comply with the more stringent standard in Table 2 or Table 3 to this subpart that applies to any portion of the combined stream, or you must comply with Table 2 for the batch process vents and Table 3 for the continuous process vents. The TRE index value for continuous process vents and the annual emissions from batch process vents shall be determined for the individual streams before they are combined, and prior to any control (e.g., by subtracting any emission contributions from storage tanks, continuous process vents or batch process vents, as applicable), in order to determine the most stringent applicable requirements.
(d)
Halogenated streams.
You must determine if an emission stream is a halogenated vent stream by calculating the mass emission rate of halogen atoms in accordance with § 63.115(d)(2)(v). Alternatively, you may elect to designate the emission stream as halogenated. If you use a combustion device to comply with the emission limits for organic HAP from a halogenated batch process vent or a halogenated continuous process vent, you must use a halogen reduction device to meet the emission limit in either paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section and in accordance with § 63.994 and the requirements referenced therein.
(1) Reduce overall emissions of hydrogen halide and halogen HAP after the combustion device by greater than or equal to 95 percent, to less than or equal to 0.45 kilograms per hour (kg/hr), or to a concentration less than or equal to 20 parts per million by volume (ppmv).
(2) Reduce the halogen atom mass emission rate before the combustion device to less than or equal to 0.45 kg/hr or to a concentration less than or equal to 20 ppmv.
(e)
Alternative standard for organic HAP.
Exceptions to the requirements for the alternative standard requirements specified in Tables 2 and 3 to this subpart and § 63.2505 are specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) When § 63.2505 of subpart FFFF refers to Tables 1 and 2 to subpart FFFF and §§ 63.2455 and 63.2460, it means Tables 2 and 3 to this subpart and § 63.11496(a) and (b).
(2) Sections 63.2505(a)(2) and (b)(9) do not apply.
(3) When § 63.2505(b) references § 63.2445 it means § 63.11494(f) through (h).
(4) The requirements for hydrogen halide and halogen HAP apply only to hydrogen halide and halogen HAP generated in a combustion device that is
used to comply with the alternative standard.
(5) When § 63.1258(b)(5)(ii)(B)(
2
) refers to a “notification of process change” report, it means the semi-annual compliance report required by § 63.11501(d) for the purposes of this subpart.
(6) CEMS requirements and data reduction requirements for CEMS specified in § 63.2450(j) apply.
(f)
Emissions from metal HAP process vents.
You must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section for metal HAP emissions from each CMPU using Table 1 metal HAP. If the collective uncontrolled metal HAP emissions from all metal HAP process vents from a CMPU are equal to or greater than 400 lb/yr, then you must also comply with the emission limits and other requirements in Table 4 to this subpart and in paragraph (f)(3), (4), or (5) of this section. The requirements of this paragraph (f) do not apply to metal HAP process vents from CMPU containing only metal HAP that are in a liquid solution or other form that will not result in particulate emissions of metal HAP (e.g., metal HAP that is in ingot, paste, slurry, or moist pellet form or other form).
(1) You must determine the sum of metal HAP emissions from all metal HAP process vents within a CMPU subject to this subpart, except you are not required to determine the annual emissions if you control the metal HAP process vents within a CMPU in accordance with Table 4 to this subpart or if you determine your total metal HAP usage in the process unit is less than 400 lb/yr. To determine the mass emission rate you may use process knowledge, engineering assessment, or test data. You must keep records of the emissions calculations.
(2) If your current estimate is that total uncontrolled metal HAP emissions from a CMPU subject to this subpart are less than 400 lb/yr, then you must keep records of either the number of batches operated per month (batch vents) or the process operating hours (continuous vents). Also, you must reevaluate your total emissions before you make any process or operational change that affects emissions of metal HAP. If projected emissions increase to 400 lb/yr or more, then you must be in compliance with one of the options for metal HAP process vents in Table 4 to this subpart upon initiating operation under the new operating conditions. You must keep records of all recalculated emissions determinations.
(3) If you have an existing source subject to the HAP metals emission limits specified in Table 4 to this subpart, you must comply with the initial compliance and monitoring requirements in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section. You must keep records of monitoring results to demonstrate continuous compliance.
(i) You must prepare a monitoring plan containing the information in paragraphs (f)(3)(i)(A) through (E) of this section. The plan must be maintained on-site and be available on request. You must operate and maintain the control device according to a site-specific monitoring plan at all times.
(A) A description of the device;
(B) Results of a performance test or engineering assessment conducted in accordance with paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section verifying the performance of the device for reducing HAP metals or particulate matter (PM) to the levels required by this subpart;
(C) Operation and maintenance plan for the control device (including a preventative maintenance schedule consistent with the manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance) and continuous monitoring system (CMS).
(D) A list of operating parameters that will be monitored to maintain continuous compliance with the applicable emissions limits; and
(E) Operating parameter limits based on either monitoring data collected during the performance test or established in the engineering assessment.
(ii) You must conduct a performance test or an engineering assessment for each CMPU subject to a HAP metals emissions limit in Table 4 to this subpart and report the results in your Notification of Compliance Status (NOCS). Each performance test or engineering assessment must be conducted under representative operating conditions, and sampling for each performance test must be conducted at both
the inlet and outlet of the control device. Upon request, you shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests. If you own or operate an existing affected source, you are not required to conduct a performance test if a prior performance test was conducted within the 5 years prior to the effective date using the same methods specified in paragraph (f)(3)(iii) of this section, and, either no process changes have been made since the test, or, if you can demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.
(iii) If you elect to conduct a performance test, it must be conducted according to requirements in § 63.11410(j)(1). As an alternative to conducting a performance test using Method 5 or 5D to determine the concentration of PM, you may use Method 29 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8 to determine the concentration of HAP metals. You have demonstrated initial compliance if the overall reduction of either HAP metals or total PM is equal to or greater than 95 percent.
(4) If you have a new source using a baghouse as a control device, you must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system on all baghouses used to comply with the HAP metals emissions limit in Table 4 to this subpart. You must comply with the testing, monitoring, and recordkeeping requirements in § 63.11410(g), (i), and (j)(1), except you are not required to submit the monitoring plan required by § 63.11410(g)(2) for approval.
(5) If you have a new source using a control device other than a baghouse to comply with the HAP metals emission limits in Table 4 to this subpart, you must comply with the initial compliance and monitoring requirements in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(g)
Exceptions and alternatives to 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS.
If you are complying with the emission limits and other requirements for continuous process vents in Table 3 to this subpart, the provisions in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) and (9) of this section apply in addition to the provisions in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS. If you are complying with the emission limits and other requirements for batch process vents in Table 2 to this subpart, the provisions in paragraphs (g)(1) through (8) of this section apply in addition to the provisions in subpart SS.
(1)
Requirements for performance tests.
(i) The requirements specified in § 63.2450(g)(1) through (4) apply instead of, or in addition to, the requirements specified in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS.
(ii) Upon request, you shall make available to the Administrator, such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(2)
Design evaluation.
To determine initial compliance with a percent reduction or outlet concentration emission limit, you may elect to conduct a design evaluation as specified in § 63.1257(a)(1) instead of a performance test as specified in subpart SS of this part 63. You must establish the value(s) and basis for the operating limits as part of the design evaluation. For continuous process vents, the design evaluation must be conducted at maximum representative operating conditions for the process, unless the Administrator specifies or approves alternate operating conditions. For batch process vents, the design evaluation must be conducted under worst-case conditions, as specified in § 63.2460(c)(2).
(3)
Outlet concentration correction for combustion devices.
When § 63.997(e)(2)(iii)(C) requires you to correct the measured concentration at the outlet of a combustion device to 3 percent oxygen if you add supplemental combustion air, the requirements in either paragraph (g)(3)(i) or (g)(3)(ii) of this section apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(i) You must correct the concentration in the gas stream at the outlet of the combustion device to 3 percent oxygen if you add supplemental gases, as defined in § 63.2550, to the vent stream, or;
(ii) You must correct the measured concentration for supplemental gases using Equation 1 of § 63.2460; you may use process knowledge and representative operating data to determine the fraction of the total flow due to supplemental gas.
(4)
Continuous parameter monitoring.
The provisions in § 63.2450(k)(1) through (6) apply in addition to the requirements for continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS) in subpart SS of this part 63, except as specified in paragraphs (g)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You may measure pH or caustic strength of the scrubber effluent at least once per day for any halogen scrubber within a CMPU subject to this rule.
(ii) The requirements in § 63.2450(k)(6) to request approval of a procedure to monitor operating parameters does not apply for the purposes of this subpart. You must provide the required information in your NOCS report required by § 63.11501(b).
(5)
Startup, shutdown, malfunction (SSM).
Sections 63.996(c)(2)(ii) and 63.998(b)(2)(iii), (b)(6)(i)(A), (c)(1)(ii)(E) and (d)(3) do not apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(6)
Excused excursions.
Excused excursions, as defined in subpart SS of this part 63, are not allowed.
(7)
Energetics and organic peroxides.
If an emission stream contains energetics or organic peroxides that, for safety reasons, cannot meet an applicable emission limit specified in this subpart, then you must submit an application to the Administrator explaining why an undue safety hazard would be created if the air emission controls were installed, and you must describe the procedures that you will implement to minimize HAP emissions from these vent streams in lieu of the emission limitations in this section.
(8)
Additional requirements for batch process vents.
The provisions specified in § 63.2460(c) apply in addition to the provisions in subpart SS of this part 63, except as specified in paragraphs (g)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) References to emission limits in Table 2 to subpart FFFF mean the emission limits in Table 2 to this subpart.
(ii) References to MCPU mean CMPU for purposes of this subpart.
(iii) Section 63.2460(c)(8) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart.
(9)
Parameter monitoring averaging periods.
Daily averages required in § 63.998(b)(3) apply at all times except during startup and shutdown. Separate averages shall be determined for each period of startup and period of shutdown.
(h)
Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers.
For each surge control vessel and bottoms receiver that meets the applicability criteria for storage tanks specified in Table 5 to this subpart, you must meet the emission limits and control requirements specified in Table 5 to this subpart.
(i)
Startup, shutdown, and malfunction (SSM).
References to SSM provisions in subparts that are referenced in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section or Tables 2 through 5 to this subpart do not apply.
[74 FR 56041, Oct. 29, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 75757, Dec. 21, 2012]
§ 63.11497
What are the standards and compliance requirements for storage tanks?
(a) You must comply with the emission limits and other requirements in Table 5 to this subpart and in paragraph (b) of this section for organic HAP emissions from each of your storage tanks that meet the applicability criteria in Table 5 to this subpart.
(b)
Planned routine maintenance for a control device.
Operate in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section for periods of planned routine maintenance of a control device for storage tanks.
(1) Add no material to the storage tank during periods of planned routine maintenance.
(2) Limit periods of planned routine maintenance for each control device (or series of control devices) to no more than 240 hours per year (hr/yr), or submit an application to the Administrator requesting an extension of this time limit to a total of 360 hr/yr. The application must explain why the extension is needed and it must be submitted at least 60 days before the 240-hour limit will be exceeded.
(3) Keep records of the day and time at which planned routine maintenance periods begin and end, and keep a record of the type of maintenance performed.
(c) References to SSM provisions in subparts that are referenced in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section or Table 5 to this subpart do not apply.
(d)
Combustion of halogenated streams.
If you use a combustion device to comply with the emission limits for organic HAP from a halogenated vent stream from a storage tank, you must reduce emissions in accordance with § 63.11496(d) and the requirements referenced therein.
[74 FR 56041, Oct. 29, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 75757, Dec. 21, 2012]
§ 63.11498
What are the standards and compliance requirements for wastewater systems?
(a) You must comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) and (2) of this section and in Table 6, Item 1 to this subpart for all wastewater streams from a CMPU subject to this subpart. If the partially soluble HAP concentration in a wastewater stream is equal to or greater than 10,000 parts per million by weight (ppmw) and the wastewater stream contains a separate organic phase, then you must also comply with Table 6, Item 2 to this subpart for that wastewater stream. Partially soluble HAP are listed in Table 7 to this subpart.
(1) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, you must determine the total concentration of partially soluble HAP in each wastewater stream using process knowledge, engineering assessment, or test data. Also, you must reevaluate the concentration of partially soluble HAP if you make any process or operational change that affects the concentration of partially soluble HAP in a wastewater stream.
(2) You are not required to determine the partially soluble concentration in wastewater that is hard piped to a combustion unit or hazardous waste treatment unit, as specified in Table 6, Item 2.b to this subpart.
(3) Separated organic material that is recycled to a process is no longer wastewater and no longer subject to the wastewater requirements after it has been recycled.
(b) The requirements in Item 2 of Table 6 to this subpart do not apply during periods of startup or shutdown. References to SSM provisions in subparts that are referenced in paragraph (a) of this section or Table 6 to this subpart do not apply.
[74 FR 56041, Oct. 29, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 75757, Dec. 21, 2012]
§ 63.11499
What are the standards and compliance requirements for heat exchange systems?
(a) If the cooling water flow rate in your heat exchange system is equal to or greater than 8,000 gal/min and is not meeting one or more of the conditions in § 63.104(a), then you must comply with one of the requirements specified in Table 8 to this subpart.
(b) For equipment that meets Current Good Manufacturing Practice (CGMP) requirements of 21 CFR part 211, you may use the physical integrity of the reactor as the surrogate indicator of heat exchanger system leaks when complying with Item 1.a in Table 8 to this subpart.
(c) Any reference to SSM provisions in other subparts that are referenced in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section or Table 8 to this subpart do not apply.
§ 63.11500
What compliance options do I have if part of my plant is subject to both this subpart and another Federal standard?
For any CMPU, heat exchange system, or wastewater system subject to the provisions of both this subpart and another rule, you may elect to comply only with the more stringent provisions as specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. You must consider all provisions of the rules, including monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. You must identify the subject CMPU, heat exchange system, and/or wastewater system, and the provisions with which you will comply in your NOCS report required by § 63.11501(b). You also must demonstrate in your NOCS report that each provision with which you will comply is at least as stringent as the otherwise applicable requirement in this subpart VVVVVV. You are responsible for making accurate determinations concerning the more stringent standards and noncompliance with this rule is not excused if it is later determined that your determination was in error and, as a result, you are violating this
subpart. Compliance with this rule is your responsibility and the NOCS report does not alter or affect that responsibility.
(a)
Compliance with other subparts of this part 63.
(1) If any part of a CMPU that is subject to the provisions of this subpart is also subject to the provisions of another subpart of 40 CFR part 63, then compliance with any of the requirements in the other subpart of this part 63 that are at least as stringent as the corresponding requirements in this subpart VVVVVV constitutes compliance with this subpart VVVVVV.
(2) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.11494, at an offsite reloading or cleaning facility subject to § 63.1253(f), as referenced from § 63.2470(e) and Table 4 to subpart VVVVVV, compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions of any other subpart of this part 63 constitutes compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions of § 63.1253(f)(7)(ii) or (iii). You must identify in your notification of compliance status report required by § 63.11501(b) the subpart of this part 63 with which the owner or operator of the offsite reloading or cleaning facility complies.
(b)
Compliance with subparts of 40 CFR part 60.
If any part of a CMPU that is subject to the provisions of this subpart is also subject to the provisions of subpart VV, DDD, III, NNN, RRR, or YYY in 40 CFR part 60, then compliance with any of the requirements in 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV, DDD, III, NNN, RRR, or YYY that are at least as stringent as the corresponding requirements in this subpart VVVVVV constitutes compliance with this subpart VVVVVV.
(c)
Compliance with subparts of 40 CFR part 61.
If any part of a CMPU that is subject to the provisions of this subpart is also subject to the provisions of subpart V, Y, BB, or FF of 40 CFR part 61, then compliance with any of the requirements in 40 CFR part 61, subpart V, Y, BB, or FF that are at least as stringent as the corresponding requirements in this subpart VVVVVV constitutes compliance with this subpart VVVVVV.
(d)
Compliance with 40 CFR parts 260 through 272.
If any part of a CMPU that is subject to the provisions of this subpart is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272, then compliance with any of the requirements in 40 CFR part 260 through 272 rule that are at least as stringent as the corresponding requirements in this subpart VVVVVV constitutes compliance with this subpart VVVVVV.
[74 FR 56041, Oct. 29, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 75757, Dec. 21, 2012]
§ 63.11501
What are the notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements, and how may I assert an affirmative defense for violation of emission standards during malfunction?
(a)
General provisions.
You must meet the requirements of the General Provisions in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, as shown in Table 9 to this subpart. The General Provisions in other parts do not apply except when a requirement in an overlapping standard, which you determined is at least as stringent as subpart VVVVVV and with which you have opted to comply, requires compliance with general provisions in another part.
(b)
Notification of compliance status (NOCS).
Your NOCS required by § 63.9(h) must include the following additional information as applicable:
(1) This certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official:
(i) “This facility complies with the management practices in § 63.11495.”
(ii) “This facility complies with the requirements in § 63.11496 for HAP emissions from process vents.”
(iii) “This facility complies with the requirements in § 63.11496 and § 63.11497 for surge control vessels, bottoms receivers, and storage tanks.”
(iv) “This facility complies with the requirements in § 63.11498 to treat wastewater streams.”
(v) “This facility complies with the requirements in § 63.11499 for heat exchange systems.”
(2) If you comply with the alternative standard as specified in Table 2 to this subpart or Table 3 to this subpart, include the information specified in § 63.1258(b)(5), as applicable.
(3) If you establish an operating limit for a parameter that will not be monitored continuously in accordance with
§§ 63.11496(g)(4) and 63.2450(k)(6), provide the information as specified in §§ 63.11496(g)(4) and 63.2450(k)(6).
(4) A list of all transferred liquids that are reactive or resinous materials, as defined in § 63.11502(b).
(5) If you comply with provisions in an overlapping rule in accordance with § 63.11500, identify the affected CMPU, heat exchange system, and/or wastewater system; provide a list of the specific provisions with which you will comply; and demonstrate that the provisions with which you will comply are at least as stringent as the otherwise applicable requirements, including monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements, in this subpart VVVVVV.
(c)
Recordkeeping.
You must maintain files of all information required by this subpart for at least 5 years following the date of each occurrence according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(1). If you are subject, you must comply with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of § 63.10(b)(2)(iii) and (vi) through (xiv), and the applicable requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) For each CMPU subject to this subpart, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.
(i) Records of management practice inspections, repairs, and reasons for any delay of repair, as specified in § 63.11495(a)(5).
(ii) Records of small heat exchange system inspections, demonstrations of indications of leaks that do not constitute leaks, repairs, and reasons for any delay in repair as specified in § 63.11495(b).
(iii) If batch process vent emissions are less than 10,000 lb/yr for a CMPU, records of batch process vent emission calculations, as specified in § 63.11496(a)(1), the number of batches operated each month, as specified in § 63.11496(a)(3), and any updated emissions calculations, as specified in § 63.11496(a)(3). Alternatively, keep records of the worst-case processes or organic HAP usage, as specified in § 63.11496(a)(2) and (4), respectively.
(iv) Records of all TRE calculations for continuous process vents as specified in § 63.11496(b)(2).
(v) Records of metal HAP emission calculations as specified in § 63.11496(f)(1) and (2). If total uncontrolled metal HAP process vent emissions from a CMPU subject to this subpart are estimated to be less than 400 lb/yr, also keep records of either the number of batches per month or operating hours, as specified in § 63.11496(f)(2).
(vi) Records identifying wastewater streams and the type of treatment they receive, as specified in Table 6 to this subpart.
(vii) Records of the date, time, and duration of each malfunction of operation of process equipment, control devices, recovery devices, or continuous monitoring systems used to comply with this subpart that causes a failure to meet a standard. The record must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the volume of each regulated pollutant emitted over the standard, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(viii) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.11495(d), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(2) For batch process vents subject to Table 2 to this subpart and continuous process vents subject to Table 3 to this subpart, you must keep records specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) If you route emissions to a control device other than a flare, keep records of performance tests, if applicable, as specified in § 63.998(a)(2)(ii) and (4), keep records of the monitoring system and the monitored parameters, as specified in § 63.998(b) and (c), and keep records of the closed-vent system, as specified in § 63.998(d)(1). If you use a recovery device to maintain the TRE above 1.0 for a continuous process vent, keep records of monitoring parameters during the TRE index value determination, as specified in § 63.998(a)(3).
(ii) If you route emissions to a flare, keep records of the flare compliance assessment, as specified in § 63.998(a)(1)(i), keep records of the pilot
flame monitoring, as specified in § 63.998(a)(1)(ii) and (iii), and keep records of the closed-vent system, as specified in § 63.998(d)(1).
(3) For metal HAP process vents subject to Table 4 to this subpart, you must keep records specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) For a new source using a control device other than a baghouse and for any existing source, maintain a monitoring plan, as specified in § 63.11496(f)(3)(i), and keep records of monitoring results, as specified in § 63.11496(f)(3).
(ii) For a new source using a baghouse to control metal HAP emissions, keep a site-specific monitoring plan, as specified in §§ 63.11496(f)(4) and 63.11410(g), and keep records of bag leak detection systems, as specified in §§ 63.11496(f)(4) and 63.11410(g)(4).
(4) For each storage tank subject to Table 5 to this subpart, you must keep records specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (vi) of this section, as applicable.
(i) Keep records of the vessel dimensions, capacity, and liquid stored, as specified in § 63.1065(a).
(ii) Keep records of each inspection of an internal floating roof, as specified in § 63.1065(b)(1).
(iii) Keep records of each seal gap measurement for external floating roofs, as specified in § 63.1065(b)(2), and keep records of inspections of external floating roofs, as specified in § 63.1065(b)(1).
(iv) If you vent emissions to a control device other than a flare, keep records of the operating plan and measured parameter values, as specified in §§ 63.985(c) and 63.998(d)(2).
(v) If you vent emissions to a flare, keep records of all periods of operation during which the flare pilot flame is absent, as specified in §§ 63.987(c) and 63.998(a)(1), and keep records of closed-vent systems, as specified in § 63.998(d)(1).
(vi) For periods of planned routine maintenance of a control device, keep records of the day and time at which each maintenance period begins and ends, and keep records of the type of maintenance performed, as specified in § 63.11497(b)(3).
(5) For each wastewater stream subject to Item 2 in Table 6 to this subpart, keep records of the wastewater stream identification and the disposition of the organic phase(s), as specified in Item 2 to Table 6 to this subpart.
(6) For each large heat exchange system subject to Table 8 to this subpart, you must keep records of detected leaks; the date the leak was detected; if demonstrated not to be a leak, the basis for that determination; the date of efforts to repair the leak; and the date the leak is repaired, as specified in Table 8 to this subpart.
(7) You must keep a record of all transferred liquids that are reactive or resinous materials, as defined in § 63.11502(b), and not included in the NOCS.
(8) For continuous process vents subject to Table 3 to this subpart, keep records of the occurrence and duration of each startup and shutdown of operation of process equipment, or of air pollution control and monitoring equipment.
(d)
Semiannual Compliance Reports.
You must submit semiannual compliance reports that contain the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section, as applicable. Reports are required only for semiannual periods during which you experienced any of the events described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1)
Deviations.
You must clearly identify any deviation from the requirements of this subpart.
(2)
Delay of repair for a large heat exchange system.
You must include the information specified in § 63.104(f)(2) each time you invoke the delay of repair provisions for a heat exchange system with a cooling water flow rate equal to or greater than 8,000 gal/min.
(3)
Delay of leak repair.
You must provide the following information for each delay of leak repair beyond 15 days for any process equipment, storage tank, surge control vessel, bottoms receiver, and each delay of leak repair beyond 45 days for any heat exchange system with a cooling water flow rate less than 8,000 gal/min: information on the date the leak was identified, the reason
for the delay in repair, and the date the leak was repaired.
(4)
Process change.
You must report each process change that affects a compliance determination and submit a new certification of compliance with the applicable requirements in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(5)
Data for the alternative standard.
If you comply with the alternative standard, as specified in Table 2 to this subpart or Table 3 to this subpart, report the information required in § 63.1258(b)(5).
(6)
Overlapping rule requirements.
Report any changes in the overlapping provisions with which you comply.
(7)
Reactive and resinous materials.
Report any transfer of liquids that are reactive or resinous materials, as defined in § 63.11502(b), and not included in the NOCS.
(8)
Malfunctions.
If a malfunction occurred during the reporting period, the report must include the number of instances of malfunctions that caused emissions in excess of a standard. For each malfunction that caused emissions in excess of a standard, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the volume of each regulated pollutant emitted over the standard, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions. The report must also include a description of actions you took during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.11495(d), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.
(e)
Affirmative defense for violation of emission standards during malfunction.
In response to an action to enforce the standards set forth in §§ 63.11495 through 63.11499, you may assert an affirmative defense to a claim for civil penalties for violations of such standards that are caused by malfunction, as defined at 40 CFR 63.2. Appropriate penalties may be assessed if you fail to meet your burden of proving all of the requirements in the affirmative defense. The affirmative defense shall not available for claims for injunctive relief.
(1) To establish the affirmative defense in any action to enforce such a standard, you must timely meet the notification requirements in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, and must prove by a preponderance of evidence that:
(i) The violation:
(A) Was caused by a sudden, infrequent, and unavoidable failure of air pollution control equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner; and
(B) Could not have been prevented through careful planning, proper design, or better operation and maintenance practices; and
(C) Did not stem from any activity or event that could have been foreseen and avoided, or planned for; and
(D) Was not part of a recurring pattern indicative of inadequate design, operation, or maintenance; and
(ii) Repairs were made as expeditiously as possible when a violation occurred. Off-shift and overtime labor were used, to the extent practicable to make these repairs; and
(iii) The frequency, amount, and duration of the violation (including any bypass) were minimized to the maximum extent practicable; and
(iv) If the violation resulted from a bypass of control equipment or a process, then the bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage; and
(v) All possible steps were taken to minimize the impact of the violation on ambient air quality, the environment and human health; and
(vi) All emissions monitoring and control systems were kept in operation if at all possible, consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices; and
(vii) All of the actions in response to the violation were documented by properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs; and
(viii) At all times, the affected CMPU was operated in a manner consistent with good practices for minimizing emissions; and
(ix) A written root cause analysis has been prepared, the purpose of which is to determine, correct, and eliminate the primary causes of the malfunction and the violation resulting from the malfunction event at issue. The analysis must also specify, using best monitoring methods and engineering judgment, the amount of any emissions
that were the result of the malfunction.
(2)
Report.
If you seek to assert an affirmative defense, you must submit a written report to the Administrator, with all necessary supporting documentation, that you have met the requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. This affirmative defense report must be included in the first periodic compliance report, deviation report, or excess emission report otherwise required after the initial occurrence of the violation of the relevant standard (which may be the end of any applicable averaging period). If such compliance report, deviation report, or excess emission report is due less than 45 days after the initial occurrence of the violation, the affirmative defense report may be included in the second compliance report, deviation report, or excess emission report due after the initial occurrence of the violation of the relevant standard.
[74 FR 56041, Oct. 29, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 75758, Dec. 21, 2012]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11502
What definitions apply to this subpart?
(a) The following terms used in this subpart have the meaning given them in the CAA, § 63.2, subpart SS (§ 63.981), subpart WW (§ 63.1061), 40 CFR 60.111b, subpart F (§ 63.101), subpart G (§ 63.111), subpart FFFF (§ 63.2550), as specified after each term:
Administrator (§ 63.2)
Article (40 CFR 372.3)
Batch operation (§ 63.2550)
Boiler (§ 63.111)
Bottoms receiver (§ 63.2550)
CAA (§ 63.2)
Closed-vent system (§ 63.981)
Combustion device (§ 63.111)
Commenced (§ 63.2)
Compliance date (§ 63.2)
Container (§ 63.111)
Continuous monitoring system (§ 63.2)
Continuous operation (§ 63.2550)
Control device (§ 63.111)
Distillation unit (§ 63.111)
Emission standard (§ 63.2)
EPA (§ 63.2)
Fill or filling (§ 63.111)
Floating roof (§ 63.1061)
Fuel gas system (§ 63.981)
Halogen atoms (§ 63.2550)
Halogenated vent stream (§ 63.2550)
Halogens and hydrogen halides (§ 63.2550)
Hazardous air pollutant (§ 63.2)
Heat exchange system (§ 63.101)
Incinerator (§ 63.111)
Isolated intermediate (§ 63.2550)
Maintenance wastewater (§ 63.2550)
Major source (§ 63.2)
Maximum true vapor pressure (§ 63.111)
Oil-water separator or organic-water separator (§ 63.111)
Operating permit (§ 63.101)
Owner or operator (§ 63.2)
Performance test (§ 63.2)
Permitting authority (§ 63.2)
Process condenser (§ 63.2550)
Process heater (§ 63.111)
Process tank (§ 63.2550)
Process wastewater (§ 63.101)
Reactor (§ 63.111)
Responsible official (§ 63.2)
State (§ 63.2)
Supplemental gases (§ 63.2550)
Surge control vessel (§ 63.2550)
Test method (§ 63.2)
Unit operation (§ 63.101)
(b) All other terms used in this subpart shall have the meaning given them in this section. If a term is defined in the CAA, § 63.2, subpart SS (§ 63.981), subpart WW (§ 63.1061), 40 CFR 60.111b, subpart F (§ 63.101), subpart G (§ 63.111), or subpart FFFF (§ 63.2550), and in this section, it shall have the meaning given in this section for purposes of this subpart.
Affirmative defense
means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.
Ancillary activities
means boilers, incinerators, and process heaters not used to comply with the emission standards in §§ 63.11495 through 63.11500, chillers and other refrigeration systems, and other equipment and activities that are not directly involved (i.e., they operate within a closed system and materials are not combined with process fluids) in the processing of raw materials or the manufacturing of a product or intermediates used in the production of the product.
Batch process vent
means a vent from a CMPU or vents from multiple CMPUs within a process that are manifolded together into a common header, through which a HAP-containing gas stream is, or has the potential to be,
released to the atmosphere. Batch process vents include vents from batch operations and vents with intermittent flow from continuous operations that are not combined with any stream that originated as a continuous gas stream from the same continuousprocess. Examples of batch process vents include, but are not limited to, vents on condensers used for product recovery, reactors, filters, centrifuges, and process tanks. The following are not batch process vents for the purposes of this subpart:
(1) Continuous process vents;
(2) Bottoms receivers;
(3) Surge control vessels;
(4) Gaseous streams routed to a fuel gas system(s);
(5) A gas stream routed to other processes for reaction or other use in another process (i.e., for chemical value as a product, isolated intermediate, byproduct, or coproduct, or for heat value).
(6) Vents on storage tanks or wastewater systems;
(7) Drums, pails, and totes; and
(8) Emission streams from emission episodes that are undiluted and uncontrolled containing less than 50 ppmv HAP are not part of any batch process vent. The HAP concentration may be determined using any of the following: process knowledge, an engineering assessment, or test data.
Byproduct
means a chemical (liquid, gas, or solid) that is produced coincidentally during the production of the product.
Chemical manufacturing process
means all equipment which collectively functions to produce a product or isolated intermediate. A process includes, but is not limited to any, all, or a combination of reaction, recovery, separation, purification, or other activity, operation, manufacture, or treatment which are used to produce a product or isolated intermediate. A process is also defined by the following:
(1) All cleaning operations;
(2) Each nondedicated solvent recovery operation is considered a single process;
(3) Each nondedicated formulation operation is considered a single process;
(4) Quality assurance/quality control laboratories are not considered part of any process;
(5) Ancillary activities are not considered a process or part of any process; and
(6) The end of a process that produces a solid material is either up to and including the dryer or extruder, or for a polymer production process without a dryer or extruder, it is up to and including the die plate or solid-state reactor, except in two cases. If the dryer, extruder, die plate, or solid-state reactor is followed by an operation that is designed and operated to remove HAP solvent or residual monomer from the solid, then the solvent removal operation is the last step in the process. If the dried solid is diluted or mixed with a HAP-based solvent, then the solvent removal operation is the last step in the process.
Continuous process vent
means a “process vent” as defined in § 63.101 in subpart F of this part, except:
(1) The reference in § 63.107(e) to a chemical manufacturing process unit that meets the criteria of § 63.100(b) means a CMPU that meets the criteria of § 63.11494(a) and (b);
(2) The reference in § 63.107(h)(2) to subpart H means § 63.11495(a) for the purposes of this subpart;
(3) The reference in § 63.107(h)(4) to § 63.113 means Tables 2 and 3 to this subpart;
(4) The reference in § 63.107(h)(7) to § 63.119 means Table 5 to this subpart, and the reference to § 63.126 does not apply for the purposes of this subpart;
(5) The second sentence in the definition of “process vent” in § 63.101 does not apply for the purposes of this subpart;
(6) The references to an “air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, or reactor” in § 63.107 means any continuous operation for the purposes of this subpart;
(7) Section § 63.107(h)(8) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart; and
(8) A separate determination is required for the emissions from each CMPU, even if emission streams from two or more CMPU are combined prior to discharge to the atmosphere or to a control device.
Co-Product
means a chemical that is produced during the production of another chemical, both for their intended production.
Deviation
means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including, but not limited to any emissions limitation or management practice; or fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.
Engineering assessment
means, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Previous test results provided the tests are representative of current operating practices at the process unit.
(2) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions.
(3) Maximum flow rate, TOC emission rate, organic HAP emission rate, metal HAP emission rate, or net heating value limit specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the process vent.
(4) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to:
(i) Use of material balances based on process stoichiometry to estimate maximum organic HAP or metal HAP concentrations;
(ii) Estimation of maximum flow rate based on physical equipment design such as pump or blower capacities;
(iii) Estimation of TOC, organic HAP, or metal HAP concentrations based on saturation conditions; or
(iv) Estimation of maximum expected net heating value based on the vent stream concentration of each organic compound or, alternatively, as if all TOC in the vent stream were the compound with the highest heating value.
(5) All data, assumptions, and procedures used in the engineering assessment shall be documented.
Equipment
means each pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, connector, and instrumentation system in or associated with a CMPU.
Family of materials
means a grouping of materials that have the same basic composition or the same basic end use or functionality; are produced using the same basic feedstocks, the same manufacturing equipment configuration and in the same sequence of steps; and whose production results in emissions of the same Table 1 HAP at approximately the same rate per pound of product produced. Examples of families of materials include multiple grades of same product or different variations of a product (e.g., blue, black and red resins).
Feedstock
means any raw material, reactant, solvent, additive, or other material introduced to a CMPU.
Hazardous waste treatment,
as used in the wastewater requirements, means treatment in any of the following units:
(1) A hazardous waste incinerator for which you have been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O, for which you have certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O, or for which you have submitted a Notification of Compliance under 40 CFR 63.1207(j) and comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE at all times (including times when non-hazardous waste is being burned);
(2) A process heater or boiler for which you have been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H, for which you have certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H, or for which you have submitted a Notification of Compliance under 40 CFR 63.1207(j) and comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE at all times (including times when non-hazardous waste is being burned); or
(3) An underground injection well for which you have been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 or 40 CFR
part 144 and comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 122.
In metal HAP service
means that a process vessel or piece of equipment either contains or contacts a feedstock, byproduct, or product that contains metal HAP. A process vessel is no longer in metal HAP service after the vessel has been emptied to the extent practicable (
i.e.,
a vessel with liquid left on process vessel walls or as bottom clingage, but not in pools, due to floor irregularity, is considered completely empty) and any cleaning has been completed.
In organic HAP service
means that a process vessel or piece of equipment either contains or contacts a feedstock, byproduct, or product that contains an organic HAP, excluding any organic HAP used in manual cleaning activities. A process vessel is no longer in organic HAP service after the vessel has been emptied to the extent practicable (
i.e.,
a vessel with liquid left on process vessel walls or as bottom clingage, but not in pools, due to floor irregularity, is considered completely empty) and any cleaning has been completed.
In VOC service
means that a process vessel or piece of equipment either contains or contacts a fluid that contains VOC.
Metal HAP
means the compounds containing metals listed as HAP in section 112(b) of the CAA.
Metal HAP process vent
means the point of discharge to the atmosphere (or inlet to a control device, if any) of a metal HAP-containing gas stream from any CMPU at an affected source containing at least 50 ppmv metal HAP. The metal HAP concentration may be determined using any of the following: process knowledge, an engineering assessment, or test data.
Organic HAP
means any organic HAP listed in section 112(b) of the CAA. For the purposes of requirements in this subpart VVVVVV, hydrazine is to be considered an organic HAP.
Point of determination
means “point of determination” as defined in § 63.111 in subpart G of this part, except:
(1) The reference to Table 8 or Table 9 compounds means Table 9 (subpart G) or Table 7 (subpart VVVVVV) compounds;
(2) The reference to “as determined in § 63.144 of this subpart” does not apply for the purposes of this subpart; and
(3) The point of determination is made at the point where the stream exits the CMPU. If a recovery device is used, the point of determination is after the last recovery device.
Process vessel
means each vessel, except hand-held containers, used in the processing of raw materials to chemical products. Examples include, but are not limited to reactors, distillation units, centrifuges, mixing vessels, and process tanks.
Product
means a compound or chemical which is manufactured as the intended product of the CMPU. Products include co-products. By-products, impurities, wastes, and trace contaminants are not considered products.
Reactive material
means energetics, organic peroxides, and unstable chemicals such as chemicals that react violently with water and chemicals that vigorously polymerize, decompose, or become self-reactive under conditions of pressure or temperature.
Recovery device
means an individual unit of equipment capable of and normally used for the purpose of recovering organic chemicals or metal-containing chemicals for fuel value (i.e., net positive heating value), use, reuse, or for sale for fuel value, use, or reuse. Examples of equipment that may be recovery devices include absorbers, carbon adsorbers, condensers, oil-water separators or organic-water separators, or organic removal devices such as decanters, strippers, or thin-film evaporation units.
Resinous material
means a viscous, high-boiling point material resembling pitch or tar, such as plastic resin, that sticks to or hardens in the fill pipe under normal transfer conditions.
Shutdown,
for a unit operation with a continuous process vent, means the cessation of the unit operation for any purpose. Shutdown begins with the initiation of steps as described in a written standard operating procedures (SOP) or shutdown plan to cease normal/stable operation (e.g., reducing or immediately stopping feed).
Startup,
for a unit operation with a continuous process vent, means the
setting in operation of the unit for any purpose. The period of startup ends upon completion of the transient, non-equilibrium step at the time operating conditions reach steady state for operating parameters such as temperature, pressure, composition, feed rate, and production rate. Periods of startup described by SOP manuals at the affected source may be used to determine the period of startup.
Storage tank
means a tank or other vessel that is used to store liquids that contain organic HAP and that are part of a CMPU subject to this subpart VVVVVV. The following are not considered storage tanks for the purposes of this subpart:
(1) Vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships;
(2) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals (kPa) and without emissions to the atmosphere;
(3) Process tanks;
(4) Tanks storing organic liquids containing HAP only as impurities;
(5) Surge control vessels;
(6) Bottoms receivers; and
(7) Wastewater storage tanks.
Transfer operations
means all product loading into tank trucks and rail cars of liquid containing organic HAP from a transfer rack. Transfer operations do not include the loading to other types of containers such as cans, drums, and totes.
Transfer rack
means the system used to load organic liquids into tank trucks and railcars at a single geographic site. It includes all loading arms, pumps, meters, shutoff valves, relief valves, and other piping and equipment necessary for the transfer operation. Transfer equipment that are physically separate (i.e., do not share common piping, valves, and other equipment) are considered to be separate transfer racks.
Uncontrolled emissions
means organic HAP process vent emissions or metal HAP process vent emissions, as applicable, at the outlet of the last recovery device, if any, and prior to any control device. In the absence of both recovery devices and control devices, uncontrolled emissions are the emissions discharged to the atmosphere.
Wastewater
means water that is discarded from a CMPU or control device and that contains at least 5 ppmw of any HAP listed in Table 9 to 40 CFR part 63, subpart G and has an annual average flow rate of 0.02 liters per minute. Wastewater means both process wastewater and maintenance wastewater that is discarded from a CMPU or control device. The following are not considered wastewater for the purposes of this subpart:
(1) Stormwater from segregated sewers;
(2) Water from fire-fighting and deluge systems, including testing of such systems;
(3) Spills;
(4) Water from safety showers;
(5) Samples of a size not greater than reasonably necessary for the method of analysis that is used;
(6) Equipment leaks;
(7) Wastewater drips from procedures such as disconnecting hoses after cleaning lines; and
(8) Noncontact cooling water.
Wastewater stream
means a single point discharge of wastewater from a CMPU or control device.
Wastewater treatment
means chemical, biological, and mechanical procedures applied to wastewater to remove or reduce HAP or other chemical constituents.
[74 FR 56041, Oct. 29, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 75759, Dec. 21, 2012]
§ 63.11503
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as a State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency pursuant to 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, then that Agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or tribal agency within your State.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the approval authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section
are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of a major change to a test method. A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
Pt. 63, Subpt. VVVVVV, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart VVVVVV of Part 63—Hazardous Air Pollutants Used To Determine Applicability of Chemical Manufacturing Operations
As required in § 63.11494(a), chemical manufacturing operations that process, use, or produce the HAP shown in the following table are subject to subpart VVVVVV.
Type of HAP
Chemical name
CAS No.
1. Organic compounds
a. 1,3-butadiene
106990
b. 1,3-dichloropropene
542756
c. Acetaldehyde
75070
d. Chloroform
67663
e. Ethylene dichloride
107062
f. Hexachlorobenzene
118741
g. Methylene chloride
75092
h. Quinoline
91225
2. Metal compounds
a. Arsenic compounds
b. Cadmium compounds
c. Chromium compounds
d. Lead compounds
e. Manganese compounds
f. Nickel compounds
3. Others
a. Hydrazine
302012
Pt. 63, Subpt. VVVVVV, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart VVVVVV of Part 63—Emission Limits and Compliance Requirements for Batch Process Vents
As required in § 63.11496, you must comply with the requirements for batch process vents as shown in the following table.
For * * *
You must * * *
Except * * *
1. Batch process vents in a CMPU at an existing source for which the total organic HAP emissions are equal to or greater than 10,000 lb/yr
a. Reduce collective uncontrolled total organic HAP emissions from the sum of all batch process vents by ≥85 percent by weight or to ≤20 ppmv by routing emissions from a sufficient number of the batch process vents through a closed vent system to any combination of control devices (except a flare) in accordance with the requirements of § 63.982(c) and the requirements referenced therein; or
i. Compliance may be based on either total organic HAP or total organic carbon (TOC); and
ii. As specified in § 63.11496(g).
b. Route emissions from batch process vents containing at least 85 percent of the uncontrolled total organic HAP through a closed-vent system to a flare (except that a flare may not be used to control halogenated vent streams) in accordance with the requirements of § 63.982(b) and the requirements referenced therein; or
i. Not applicable.
c. Comply with the alternative standard specified in § 63.2505 and the requirements referenced therein; or
i. As specified in § 63.11496(e) of this subpart.
d. Comply with combinations of the requirements in Items a., b., and c. of this Table for different groups of batch process vents
i. The information specified above for Items a., b., and c., as applicable.
2. Batch process vents in a CMPU at a new source for which the total organic HAP emissions are equal to or greater than 10,000 lb/yr
a. Comply with any of the emission limits in Items 1.a through 1.d of this Table, except 90 percent reduction applies instead of 85 percent reduction in Item 1.a, and 90 percent of the emissions must be routed to a flare instead of 85 percent in Item 1.b
i. The information specified above for Items 1.a., 1.b., 1.c., and 1.d, as applicable.
3. Halogenated batch process vent stream at a new or existing source that is controlled through combustion
a. Comply with the requirements for halogen scrubbers in § 63.11496(d).
Pt. 63, Subpt. VVVVVV, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart VVVVVV of Part 63—Emission Limits and Compliance Requirements for Continuous Process Vents
[As required in § 63.11496, you must comply with the requirements for continuous process vents as shown in the following table]
For . . .
You must . . .
Except . . .
1. Each continuous process vent with a TRE ≤1.0
a. Reduce emissions of total organic HAP by ≥95 percent by weight (≥85 percent by weight for periods of startup or shutdown) or to ≤20 ppmv by routing emissions through a closed vent system to any combination of control devices (except a flare) in accordance with the requirements of § 63.982(c) and the requirements referenced therein; or
i. Compliance may be based on either total organic HAP or TOC; and
ii. As specified in § 63.11496(g).
b. Reduce emissions of total organic by HAP by routing all emissions through a closed-vent system to a flare (except that a flare may not be used to control halogenated vent streams) in accordance with the requirements of § 63.982(b) and the requirements referenced therein, or
i. Not applicable.
c. Comply with the alternative standard specified in § 63.2505 and the requirements referenced therein
i. As specified in § 63.11496(e).
2. Halogenated vent stream that is controlled through combustion
a. Comply with the requirements for halogen scrubbers in § 63.11496(d).
3. Each continuous process vent with a TRE
1.0 but ≤4.0
a. Comply with the requirements of § 63.982(e) and the requirements specified therein if a recovery device, as defined in § 63.11502, is used to maintain a TRE
1.0 but ≤4.0.
[77 FR 75760, Dec. 21, 2012]
Pt. 63, Subpt. VVVVVV, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart VVVVVV of Part 63—Emission Limits and Compliance Requirements for Metal HAP Process Vents
As required in § 63.11496(f), you must comply with the requirements for metal HAP process vents as shown in the following table.
For * * *
You must * * *
Except * * *
Each CMPU with total metal HAP emissions ≥400 lb/yr
Reduce collective uncontrolled emissions of total metal HAP emissions by ≥95 percent by weight by routing emissions from a sufficient number of the metal process vents through a closed-vent system to any combination of control devices, according to the requirements of § 63.11496(f)(3), (4), or (5)
Not applicable.
Pt. 63, Subpt. VVVVVV, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart VVVVVV of Part 63—Emission Limits and Compliance Requirements for Storage Tanks
As required in § 63.11497, you must comply with the requirements for storage tanks as shown in the following table.
For each * * *
You must * * *
Except * * *
1. Storage tank with a design capacity ≥40,000 gallons, storing liquid that contains organic HAP listed in Table 1 to this subpart, and for which the maximum true vapor pressure (MTVP) of total organic HAP at the storage temperature is ≥5.2 kPa and
76.6 kPa.
a. Comply with the requirements of subpart WW of this part;
i. All required seals must be installed by the compliance date in § 63.11494.
b. Reduce total organic HAP emissions by ≥95 percent by weight by operating and maintaining a closed-vent system and control device (other than a flare) in accordance with § 63.982(c); or
i. Compliance may be based on either total organic HAP or TOC;
ii. When the term storage vessel is used in subpart SS of this part, the term storage tank, surge control vessel, or bottoms receiver, as defined in § 63.11502 of this subpart, applies; and
iii. The requirements do not apply during periods of planned routine maintenance of the control device, as specified in § 63.11497(b).
c. Reduce total HAP emissions by operating and maintaining a closed-vent system and a flare in accordance with § 63.982(b); or
i. The requirements do not apply during periods of planned routine maintenance of the flare, as specified in § 63.11497(b); and
ii. When the term storage vessel is used in subpart SS of this part, it means storage tank, surge control vessel, or bottoms receiver, as defined in § 63.11502 of this subpart.
d. Vapor balance in accordance with § 63.2470(e); or
i. To comply with § 63.1253(f)(6)(i), the owner or operator of an offsite cleaning or reloading facility must comply with § 63.11494 and § 63.11502 instead of complying with § 63.1253(f)(7)(ii), except as specified in item 1.d.ii and 1.2.iii of this table.
ii. The reporting requirements in § 63.11501 do not apply to the owner or operator of the offsite cleaning or reloading facility.
iii. As an alternative to complying with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions in §§ 63.11494 through 63.11502, the owner or operator of an offsite cleaning or reloading facility may comply as specified in § 63.11500 with any other subpart of this part 63 which has monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions as specified in § 63.11500.
e. Route emissions to a fuel gas system or process in accordance with the requirements in § 63.982(d) and the requirements referenced therein.
i. When the term storage vessel is used in subpart SS of this part, it means storage tank, surge control vessel, or bottoms receiver, as defined in § 63.11502.
2. Storage tank with a design capacity ≥20,000 gallons and
40,000 gallons, storing liquid that contains organic HAP listed in Table 1 to this subpart, and for which the MTVP of total organic HAP at the storage temperature is ≥27.6 kPa and
76.6 kPa
a. Comply with one of the options in Item 1 of this table
i. The information specified above for Items 1.a., 1.b., 1.c., 1.d, and 1.e, as applicable.
3. Storage tank with a design capacity ≥20,000 gallons, storing liquid that contains organic HAP listed in Table 1 to this subpart, and for which the MTVP of total organic HAP at the storage temperature is ≥76.6 kPa
a. Comply with option b, c, d, or e in Item 1 of this table
i. The information specified above for Items 1.b., 1.c., 1.d, and 1.e, as applicable.
4. Storage tank described by Item 1, 2, or 3 in this table and emitting a halogenated vent stream that is controlled with a combustion device
a. Reduce emissions of hydrogen halide and halogen HAP by ≥95 percent by weight, or to ≤0.45 kg/hr, or to ≤20 ppmv by using a halogen reduction device after the combustion device according to the requirements in § 63.11496(d); or
b. Reduce the halogen atom mass emission rate to ≤0.45 kg/hr or to ≤20 ppmv by using a halogen reduction device before the combustion device according to the requirements in § 63.11496(d).
[74 FR 56041, Oct. 29, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 75760, Dec. 21, 2012]
Pt. 63, Subpt. VVVVVV, Table 6

# Table 6 to Subpart VVVVVV of Part 63—Emission Limits and Compliance Requirements for Wastewater Systems
[As required in § 63.11498, you must comply with the requirements for wastewater systems as shown in the following table]
For each . . .
You must . . .
And you must . . .
1. Wastewater stream
a. Discharge to onsite or offsite wastewater treatment or hazardous waste treatment
i. Maintain records identifying each wastewater stream and documenting the type of treatment that it receives. Multiple wastewater streams with similar characteristics and from the same type of activity in a CMPU may be grouped together for recordkeeping purposes.
2. Wastewater stream containing partially soluble HAP at a concentration ≥10,000 ppmw and separate organic and water phases
a. Use a decanter, steam stripper, thin film evaporator, or distillation unit
to separate the water phase from the organic phase(s); or
i. For the water phase, comply with the requirements in Item 1 of this table, and
ii. For the organic phase(s), recycle to a process, use as fuel, or dispose as hazardous waste either onsite or offsite, and
iii. Keep records of the wastewater streams subject to this requirement and the disposition of the organic phase(s).
b. Hard pipe the entire wastewater stream to onsite treatment as a hazardous waste, or hard pipe the entire wastewater stream to a point of transfer to onsite or offsite hazardous waste treatment.
i. Keep records of the wastewater streams subject to this requirement and the disposition of the wastewater streams.
[77 FR 75761, Dec. 21, 2012]
Pt. 63, Subpt. VVVVVV, Table 7

# Table 7 to Subpart VVVVVV of Part 63—Partially Soluble HAP
As required in § 63.11498(a), you must comply with emission limits for wastewater streams that contain the partially soluble HAP listed in the following table.
Partially soluble HAP name
CAS No.
1. 1,1,1-Trichloroethane (methyl chloroform)
71556
2. 1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane
79345
3. 1,1,2-Trichloroethane
79005
4. 1,1-Dichloroethylene (vinylidene chloride)
75354
5. 1,2-Dibromoethane
106934
6. 1,2-Dichloroethane (ethylene dichloride)
107062
7. 1,2-Dichloropropane
78875
8. 1,3-Dichloropropene
542756
9. 2,4,5-Trichlorophenol
95954
10. 1,4-Dichlorobenzene
106467
11. 2-Nitropropane
79469
12. 4-Methyl-2-pentanone (MIBK)
108101
13. Acetaldehyde
75070
14. Acrolein
107028
15. Acrylonitrile
107131
16. Allyl chloride
107051
17. Benzene
71432
18. Benzyl chloride
100447
19. Biphenyl
92524
20. Bromoform (tribromomethane)
75252
21. Bromomethane
74839
22. Butadiene
106990
23. Carbon disulfide
75150
24. Chlorobenzene
108907
25. Chloroethane (ethyl chloride)
75003
26. Chloroform
67663
27. Chloromethane
74873
28. Chloroprene
126998
29. Cumene
98828
30. Dichloroethyl ether
111444
31. Dinitrophenol
51285
32. Epichlorohydrin
106898
33. Ethyl acrylate
140885
34. Ethylbenzene
100414
35. Ethylene oxide
75218
36. Ethylidene dichloride
75343
37. Hexachlorobenzene
118741
38. Hexachlorobutadiene
87683
39. Hexachloroethane
67721
40. Methyl methacrylate
80626
41. Methyl-t-butyl ether
1634044
42. Methylene chloride
75092
43. N-hexane
110543
44. N,N-dimethylaniline
121697
45. Naphthalene
91203
46. Phosgene
75445
47. Propionaldehyde
123386
48. Propylene oxide
75569
49. Styrene
100425
50. Tetrachloroethylene (per- chloroethylene)
127184
51. Tetrachloromethane (carbon tetrachloride)
56235
52. Toluene
108883
53. Trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-)
120821
54. Trichloroethylene
79016
55. Trimethylpentane
540841
56. Vinyl acetate
108054
57. Vinyl chloride
75014
58. Xylene (m)
108383
59. Xylene (o)
95476
60. Xylene (p)
106423
Pt. 63, Subpt. VVVVVV, Table 8

# Table 8 to Subpart VVVVVV of Part 63—Emission Limits and Compliance Requirements for Heat Exchange Systems
[As required in § 63.11499, you must comply with the requirements for heat exchange systems as shown in the following table]
For . . .
You must . . .
Except . . .
1. Each heat exchange system with a cooling water flow rate ≥8,000 gal/min and not meeting one or more of the conditions in § 63.104(a)
a. Comply with the monitoring requirements in § 63.104(c), the leak repair requirements in § 63.104(d) and (e), and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 63.104(f); or
i. The reference to monthly monitoring for the first 6 months in § 63.104(b)(1) and (c)(1)(iii) does not apply. Monitoring shall be no less frequent than quarterly;
ii. The reference in § 63.104(f)(1) to record retention requirements in § 63.103(c)(1) does not apply. Records must be retained as specified in §§ 63.10(b)(1) and 63.11501(c); and
iii. The reference in § 63.104(f)(2) to “the next semi-annual periodic report required by § 63.152(c)” means the next semi-annual compliance report required by § 63.11501(f).
b. Comply with the heat exchange system requirements in § 63.104(b) and the requirements referenced therein.
i. Not applicable.
[77 FR 75762, Dec. 21, 2012]
Pt. 63, Subpt. VVVVVV, Table 9

# Table 9 to Subpart VVVVVV of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart VVVVVV
As required in § 63.11501(a), you must comply with the requirements of the NESHAP General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) as shown in the following table.
Citation
Subject
Applies to Subpart VVVVVV?
Explanation
63.1(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6), (a)(10)-(a)(12) (b)(1), (b)(3), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)
Applicability
Yes
63.1(a)(5), (a)(7)-(a)(9), (b)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d)
Reserved
No
63.2
Definitions
Yes
63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Yes
63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention
Yes
63.5
Preconstruction Review and Notification Requirements
Yes
63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (b)(7), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)(1)(iii), (g), (i), (j)
Compliance with Standards and Maintenance Requirements
Yes
63.6(b)(6), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (h)(3), (h)(5)(iv)
Reserved
No
63.6(e)(1)(i) and (ii), (e)(3), and (f)(1)
SSM Requirements
No
See § 63.11495(d) for general duty requirement.
63.6(h)(1)-(h)(4), (h)(5)(i)-(h)(5)(iii), (h)(6)-(h)(9)
No
Subpart VVVVVV does not include opacity or visible emissions (VE) standards or require a continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS).
63.7(a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (c), (e)(4), and (f)-(h)
Performance Testing Requirements
Yes
63.7(a)(2), (b), (d), (e)(2)-(e)(3)
Performance Testing Schedule, Notification of Performance Test, Performance Testing Facilities, and Conduct of Performance Tests
Yes/No
Requirements apply if conducting test for metal HAP control; requirements in §§ 63.997(c)(1), (d), (e), and 63.999(a)(1) apply, as referenced in § 63.11496(g), if conducting test for organic HAP or hydrogen halide and halogen HAP control device.
63.7(e)(1)
Performance Testing
No
See § 63.11496(f)(3)(ii) if conducting a test for metal HAP emissions. See §§ 63.11496(g) and 63.997(e)(1) if conducting a test for continuous process vents or for hydrogen halide and halogen emissions. See §§ 63.11496(g) and 63.2460(c) if conducting a test for batch process vents.
63.8(a)(1), (a)(4), (b), (c)(1)(ii), (c)(2)-(c)(3), (f)(1)-(5)
Monitoring Requirements
Yes
63.8(a)(2)
Monitoring Requirements
No
63.8(a)(3)
Reserved
No
63.8(c)(1)(i)
General Duty to Minimize Emissions and CMS Operation
No
63.8(c)(1)(iii)
Requirement to Develop SSM Plan for CMS
No
63.8(c)(4)
Yes
Only for CEMS. CPMS requirements in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS are referenced from § 63.11496. Requirements for COMS do not apply because subpart VVVVVV does not require COMS.
63.8(c)(5)
No
Subpart VVVVVV does not require COMS.
63.8(c)(6)-(c)(8), (d)(1)-(d)(2), (e), (f)(6)
Yes
Requirements apply only if you use a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) to demonstrate compliance with the alternative standard in § 63.11496(e).
63.8(d)(3)
Written Procedures for CMS
Yes
Requirement applies except for last sentence, which refers to an SSM plan. SSM plans are not required.
63.8(g)(1)-(g)(4)
Yes
Data reduction requirements apply only if you use CEMS to demonstrate compliance with alternative standard in § 63.11496(e). COMS requirements do not apply. Requirement in § 63.8(g)(2) does not apply because data reduction for CEMS are specified in 40 CFR part 63, subpart FFFF.
63.8(g)(5)
No
Data reduction requirements for CEMS are specified in § 63.2450(j)(4), as referenced from § 63.11496. CPMS requirements are specified in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS, as referenced from § 63.11496.
63.9(a), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(4), (b)(5), (c), (d), (e), (i)
Notification Requirements
Yes
63.9(b)(3), (h)(4)
Reserved
No
63.9(f)
No
Subpart VVVVVV does not contain opacity or VE limits.
63.9(g)
Yes
Additional notification requirement applies only if you use CEMS to demonstrate compliance with alternative standard in § 63.11496(e).
63.9(h)(1)-(h)(3), (h)(5)-(h)(6)
Yes
Except subpart VVVVVV does not contain opacity or VE limits.
63.9(i)
Yes
63.9(j)
Change in Information Already Provided
No
Notification of process changes that affect a compliance determination are required in § 63.11501(d)(4).
63.10(a)
Recordkeeping Requirements
Yes
63.10(b)(1)
Yes
63.10(b)(2)(i)
Recordkeeping of Occurrence and Duration of Startups and Shutdowns
No
See § 63.11501(c)(8) for recordkeeping of occurrence and duration of each startup and shutdown for continuous process vents that are subpart to Table 3 to this subpart.
63.10(b)(2)(ii)
Recordkeeping of Malfunctions
No
See § 63.11501(c)(1)(vii) and (viii) for recordkeeping of (1) date, time, duration, and volume of excess emissions and (2) actions taken during malfunction.
63.10(b)(2)(iii)
Maintenance Records
Yes
63.10(b)(2)(iv) and (v)
Actions Taken to Minimize Emissions During SSM
No
63.10(b)(2)(vi), (x), (xi), (xiii)
Yes
Apply only if you use CEMS to demonstrate compliance with alternative standard in § 63.11496(e).
63.10(b)(2)(vii)-(b)(2)(ix), (b)(2)(xii), (b)(2)(xiv)
Yes
63.10(b)(3)
Yes
63.10(c)(1), (c)(5)-(c)(6), (c)(13)-(c)(14)
Yes
Apply only if you use CEMS to demonstrate compliance with alternative standard in § 63.11496(e).
63.10(c)(7)-(8)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for CMS—Identifying Exceedances and Excess Emissions
Yes
63.10(c)(10)
Recordkeeping Nature and Cause of Malfunctions
No
See § 63.11501(c)(1)(vii) and (viii) for malfunctions recordkeeping requirements.
63.10(c)(11)
Recording Corrective Actions
No
See § 63.11501(c)(1)(vii) and (viii) for malfunctions recordkeeping requirements.
63.10(c)(12)
Yes
63.10(c)(15)
Use of SSM Plan
No
63.10(c)(2)-(c)(4), (c)(9)
Reserved
No
63.10(d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(4), (e)(1), (e)(2), (f)
Reporting Requirements
Yes
63.10(d)(3)
No
Subpart VVVVVV does not include opacity or VE limits.
63.10(d)(5)
SSM Reports
No
See § 63.11501(d)(8) for reporting requirements for malfunctions.
63.10(e)(1)-(e)(2)
Yes
Apply only if you use CEMS to demonstrate compliance with alternative standard in § 63.11496(e).
63.10(e)(3)
Yes
63.10(e)(4)
No
Subpart VVVVVV does not include opacity or VE limits.
63.11
Control Device Requirements
Yes
63.12
State Authorities and Delegations
Yes
63.13
Addresses
Yes
63.14
Incorporations by Reference
Yes
63.15
Availability of Information and Confidentiality
Yes
63.16
Performance Track Provisions
Yes
[74 FR 56041, Oct. 29, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 75762, Dec. 21, 2012]

# Subpart WWWWWW—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Area Source Standards for Plating and Polishing Operations

# Source:
73 FR 37741, July 1, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11504
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a plating and polishing facility that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions and meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) A plating and polishing facility is a plant site that is engaged in one or more of the processes listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Electroplating other than chromium electroplating (i.e., non-chromium electroplating).
(ii) Electroless or non-eletrolytic plating.
(iii) Other non-electrolytic metal coating processes, such as chromate conversion coating, nickel acetate sealing, sodium dichromate sealing, and manganese phosphate coating; and thermal spraying.
(iv) Dry mechanical polishing of finished metals and formed products after plating or thermal spraying.
(v) Electroforming.
(vi) Electropolishing.
(2) A plating or polishing facility is an area source of HAP emissions, where an area source is any stationary source or group of stationary sources within a contiguous area under common control that does not have the potential to emit any single HAP at a rate of 9.07 megagrams per year (Mg/yr) (10 tons per year (tpy)) or more and any combination of HAP at a rate of 22.68 Mg/yr (25 tpy) or more.
(3) Your plating and polishing facility uses or has emissions of compounds of one or more plating and polishing metal HAP, which means any compound of any of the following metals: cadmium, chromium, lead, manganese, and nickel, as defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?” With the exception of lead, plating and polishing metal HAP also include any of these metals in the elemental form.
(b) [Reserved]
[73 FR 37741, July 1, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 57919, Sept. 19, 2011]
§ 63.11505
What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?
(a) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source, as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, at all times. A new source is defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”
(1) Each tank that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, and is used for non-chromium electroplating; electroforming; electropolishing; electroless plating or other non-electrolytic metal coating operations, such as chromate conversion coating, nickel acetate sealing, sodium dichromate sealing, and manganese phosphate coating.
(2) Each thermal spraying operation that applies one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”
(3) Each dry mechanical polishing operation that emits one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”
(b) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before March 14, 2008.
(c) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after March 14, 2008.
(d) This subpart does not apply to any of the process units or operations described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) Process units that are subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart N (National Emission Standards for Chromium Emissions from
Hard and Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Tanks).
(2) Research and development process units, as defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”
(3) Process units that are used strictly for educational purposes.
(4) Plating, polishing, coating, or thermal spraying conducted to repair surfaces or equipment.
(5) Dry mechanical polishing conducted to restore the original finish to a surface.
(6) Any plating or polishing process that uses process materials that contain cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel (as the metal) in amounts less than 0.1 percent by weight, or that contain manganese in amounts less than 1.0 percent by weight (as the metal), as used. Information used to determine the amount of plating and polishing metal HAP in materials used in the plating or polishing process may include information reported on the Material Safety Data Sheet for the material, but is not required. For plating or polishing tanks, the HAP content may be determined from the final bath contents “as used” to plate or to polish.
(e) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, “Title V,” provided you are not otherwise required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.
[73 FR 37741, July 1, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 57919, Sept. 19, 2011]
§ 63.11506
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart no later than July 1, 2010.
(b) If you own or operate a new affected source for which the initial startup date is on or before July 1, 2008, you must achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart no later than July 1, 2008.
(c) If you own or operate a new affected source for which the initial startup date is after July 1, 2008, you must achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart upon initial startup of your affected source.

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11507
What are my standards and management practices?
(a) If you own or operate an affected new or existing non-cyanide electroplating, electroforming, or electropolishing tank (hereafter referred to as an “electrolytic” process tank, as defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”) that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and operates at a pH of less than 12, you must comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, and implement the applicable management practices in paragraph (g) of this section, as practicable.
(1) You must use a wetting agent/fume suppressant in the bath of the affected tank, as defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?” and according to paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must initially add the wetting agent/fume suppressant in the amounts recommended by the manufacturer for the specific type of electrolytic process.
(ii) You must add wetting agent/fume suppressant in proportion to the other bath chemistry ingredients that are added to replenish the bath, as in the original make-up of the bath, or in proportions such that the bath contents are returned to that of the original make-up of the bath.
(iii) If a wetting agent/fume suppressant is included in the electrolytic process bath chemicals used in the affected tank according to the manufacturer's instructions, it is not necessary to add additional wetting agent/fume suppressants to the tank to comply with this rule.
(2) You must capture and exhaust emissions from the affected tank to any one of the following emission control devices: composite mesh pad, packed bed scrubber, or mesh pad mist
eliminator, according to paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must operate all capture and control devices according to the manufacturer's specifications and operating instructions.
(ii) You must keep the manufacturer's specifications and operating instructions at the facility at all times in a location where they can be easily accessed by the operators.
(3) You must cover the tank surface according to paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) For batch electrolytic process tanks, as defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, you must use a tank cover, as defined in § 63.11511, over all of the effective surface area of the tank for at least 95 percent of the electrolytic process operating time.
(ii) For continuous electrolytic process tanks, as defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, you must cover at least 75 percent of the surface of the tank, as defined in § 63.11511, whenever the electrolytic process tank is in operation.
(b) If you own or operate an affected new or existing “flash” or short-term electroplating tank, as defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, that uses or emits one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2), and implement the applicable management practices in paragraph (g) of this section, as practicable.
(1) You must limit short-term or “flash” electroplating to no more than 1 cumulative hour per day or 3 cumulative minutes per hour of plating time.
(2) You must use a tank cover, as defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, for at least 95 percent of the plating time.
(c) If you own or operate an affected new or existing process tank that is used both for short-term electroplating and for electrolytic processing of longer duration (i.e., processing that does not meet the definition of short-term or flash electroplating) and contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, you must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, whichever apply to the process operation, and implement the applicable management practices in paragraph (g) of this section, as practicable.
(d) If you own or operate an affected new or existing electroplating tank that uses cyanide in the plating bath, operates at pH greater than or equal to 12, and contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section:
(1) You must measure and record the pH of the bath upon startup of the bath, as defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?” No additional pH measurements are required.
(2) You must implement the applicable management practices in paragraph (g) of this section, as practicable.
(e) If you own or operate an affected new or existing dry mechanical polishing machine that emits one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, you must operate a capture system that captures particulate matter (PM) emissions from the dry mechanical polishing process and transports the emissions to a cartridge, fabric, or high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter, according to paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must operate all capture and control devices according to the manufacturer's specifications and operating instructions.
(2) You must keep the manufacturer's specifications and operating instructions at the facility at all times in a location where they can be easily accessed by the operators.
(f) If you own or operate an affected thermal spraying operation that applies one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, you must meet the applicable requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section, and the applicable management practices in paragraph (g) of this section.
(1) For existing permanent thermal spraying operations, you must operate a capture system that collects PM emissions from the thermal spraying process and transports the emissions to a water curtain, fabric filter, cartridge,
or HEPA filter, according to paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(2) For new permanent thermal spraying operations, you must operate a capture system that collects PM emissions from the thermal spraying process and transports the emissions to a fabric, cartridge, or HEPA filter, according to paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(3) For temporary thermal spraying operations, as defined in § 63.11511 “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, you must meet the applicable requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must document the amount of time the thermal spraying occurs each day, and where it is conducted.
(ii) You must implement the applicable management practices specified in paragraph (g) of this section, as practicable.
(g) If you own or operate an affected new or existing plating and polishing process unit that contains, applies, or emits one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, you must implement the applicable management practices in paragraphs (g)(1) through (12) of this section, as practicable.
(1) Minimize bath agitation when removing any parts processed in the tank, as practicable except when necessary to meet part quality requirements.
(2) Maximize the draining of bath solution back into the tank, as practicable, by extending drip time when removing parts from the tank; using drain boards (also known as drip shields); or withdrawing parts slowly from the tank, as practicable.
(3) Optimize the design of barrels, racks, and parts to minimize dragout of bath solution (such as by using slotted barrels and tilted racks, or by designing parts with flow-through holes to allow the tank solution to drip back into the tank), as practicable.
(4) Use tank covers, if already owned and available at the facility, whenever practicable.
(5) Minimize or reduce heating of process tanks, as practicable (e.g., when doing so would not interrupt production or adversely affect part quality).
(6) Perform regular repair, maintenance, and preventive maintenance of racks, barrels, and other equipment associated with affected sources, as practicable.
(7) Minimize bath contamination, such as through the prevention or quick recovery of dropped parts, use of distilled/de-ionized water, water filtration, pre-cleaning of parts to be plated, and thorough rinsing of pre-treated parts to be plated, as practicable.
(8) Maintain quality control of chemicals, and chemical and other bath ingredient concentrations in the tanks, as practicable.
(9) Perform general good housekeeping, such as regular sweeping or vacuuming, if needed, and periodic washdowns, as practicable.
(10) Minimize spills and overflow of tanks, as practicable.
(11) Use squeegee rolls in continuous or reel-to-reel plating tanks, as practicable.
(12) Perform regular inspections to identify leaks and other opportunities for pollution prevention.
[73 FR 37741, July 1, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 57920, Sept. 19, 2011]
§ 63.11508
What are my compliance requirements?
(a) If you own or operate an affected source, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.11509(b) of “What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?”
(b) You must be in compliance with the applicable management practices and equipment standards in this subpart at all times.
(c) To demonstrate initial compliance, you must satisfy the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (11) of this section.
(1) If you own or operate an affected electroplating, electroforming, or electropolishing tank that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(a), “What are my standards and management practices?”, and you use a wetting agent/fume suppressant to comply with this subpart, you must demonstrate
initial compliance according to paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) You must add wetting agent/fume suppressant to the bath of each affected tank according to manufacturer's specifications and instructions.
(ii) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you add wetting agent/fume suppressant to the bath according to manufacturer's specifications and instructions.
(iii) You must implement the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(iv) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you have implemented the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(2) If you own or operate an affected electroplating, electroforming, or electropolishing tank that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(a), “What are my standards and management practices?”, and you use a control system, as defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, to comply with this subpart, you must demonstrate initial compliance according to paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) You must install a control system designed to capture emissions from the affected tank and exhaust them to a composite mesh pad, packed bed scrubber, or mesh pad mist eliminator.
(ii) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you have installed the control system according to the manufacturer's specifications and instructions.
(iii) You must implement the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(iv) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you have implemented the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(v) You must follow the manufacturer's specifications and operating instructions for the control systems at all times.
(3) If you own or operate an affected batch electrolytic process tank, as defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?” that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and which is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(a), “What are my standards and management practices?” and you use a tank cover, as defined in § 63.11511, to comply with § 11507(a), (b) or (c) of this subpart, you must demonstrate initial compliance according to paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) You must install a tank cover on the affected tank.
(ii) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you operate the tank with the cover in place at least 95 percent of the electrolytic process operating time.
(iii) You must implement the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(iv) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you have implemented the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(4) If you own or operate an affected continuous electrolytic process tank, as defined in § 63.11511, “What definitions apply to this subpart?” that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(a), “What are my standards and management practices?” and you cover the tank surface to comply with § 11507(a), (b) or (c) of this subpart, you must demonstrate initial compliance according to paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) You must cover at least 75 percent of the surface area of the affected tank.
(ii) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you operate the tank with the surface cover
in place whenever the continuous electrolytic process is in operation.
(iii) You must implement the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(iv) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you have implemented the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(5) If you own or operate an affected flash or short-term electroplating tank that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(b), “What are my standards and management practices?” and you comply with § 11507(a), (b) or (c) of this subpart by limiting the plating time of the affected tank, you must demonstrate initial compliance according to paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you limit short-term or flash electroplating to no more than 1 cumulative hour per day, or 3 cumulative minutes per hour of plating time.
(ii) You must implement the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(iii) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you have implemented the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(6) If you own or operate an affected flash or short-term electroplating tank that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(b), “What are my standards and management practices?” and you comply with § 11507(a), (b) or (c) of this subpart by operating the affected tank with a cover, you must demonstrate initial compliance according to paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) You must install a tank cover on the affected tank.
(ii) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you operate the tank with the cover in place at least 95 percent of the plating time.
(iii) You must implement the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(iv) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you have implemented the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(7) If you own or operate an affected tank that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, uses cyanide in the bath, and is subject to the management practices specified in § 63.11507(d), “What are my standards and management practices?”, you must demonstrate initial compliance according to paragraphs (c)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must report in your Notification of Compliance Status the pH of the bath solution that was measured at startup, as defined in § 63.11511, according to the requirements of § 63.11507(d)(1).
(ii) You must implement the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(iii) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you have implemented the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11490(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(8) If you own or operate an affected dry mechanical polishing operation that emits one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(e), “What are my standards and management practices?”, you must demonstrate initial compliance according to paragraphs (c)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must install a control system that is designed to capture PM emissions from the polishing operation and
exhaust them to a cartridge, fabric, or HEPA filter.
(ii) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you have installed the control system according to the manufacturer's specifications and instructions.
(iii) You must keep the manufacturer's operating instructions at the facility at all times in a location where they can be easily accessed by the operators.
(9) If you own or operate an existing affected permanent thermal spraying operation that applies one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(f)(1), “What are my standards and management practices?”, you must demonstrate initial compliance according to paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must install a control system that is designed to capture PM emissions from the thermal spraying operation and exhaust them to a water curtain, or a cartridge, fabric, or HEPA filter.
(ii) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you have installed and are operating the control system according to the manufacturer's specifications and instructions.
(iii) You must keep the manufacturer's operating instructions at the facility at all times in a location where they can be easily accessed by the operators.
(10) If you own or operate a new affected permanent thermal spraying operation that applies one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(f)(2), “What are my standards and management practices?”, you must demonstrate initial compliance according to paragraphs (c)(10)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must install and operate a control system that is designed to capture PM emissions from the thermal spraying operation and exhaust them to a cartridge, fabric, or HEPA filter.
(ii) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you have installed and operate the control system according to the manufacturer's specifications and instructions.
(iii) You must keep the manufacturer's operating instructions at the facility at all times in a location where they can be easily accessed by the operators.
(11) If you own or operate an affected temporary thermal spraying operation that applies one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(f)(3), “What are my standards and management practices?”, you must demonstrate initial compliance according to paragraphs (c)(11)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must implement the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(ii) You must state in your Notification of Compliance Status that you have implemented the applicable management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, as practicable.
(d) To demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable management practices and equipment standards specified in this subpart, you must satisfy the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) You must always operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control equipment.
(2) You must prepare an annual compliance certification according to the requirements specified in § 63.11509(c), “Notification, Reporting, and Recordkeeping,” and keep it in a readily-accessible location for inspector review.
(3) If you own or operate an affected electroplating, electroforming, or electropolishing tank that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(a), “What are my standards and management practices?”, and you use a wetting agent/fume suppressant to comply with this subpart, you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must record that you have added the wetting agent/fume suppressant to the tank bath in the original make-up of the tank.
(ii) For tanks where the wetting agent/fume suppressant is a separate ingredient from the other tank additives, you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (d)(3)(ii) (A) and (B) this section.
(A) You must add wetting agent/fume suppressant in proportion to the other bath chemistry ingredients that are added to replenish the tank bath, as in the original make-up of the tank; or in proportion such that the bath is brought back to the original make-up of the tank.
(B) You must record each addition of wetting agent/fume suppressant to the tank bath.
(iii) You must state in your annual compliance certification that you have added wetting agent/fume suppressant to the bath according to the manufacturer's specifications and instructions.
(4) If you own or operate an affected electroplating, electroforming, or electropolishing tank that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(a), “What are my standards and management practices?”, and you use a control system to comply with this subpart; an affected dry mechanical polishing operation that is subject to § 63.11507(e); or an affected thermal spraying operation that is subject to § 63.11507(f)(1) or (2), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) You must operate and maintain the control system according to the manufacturer's specifications and instructions.
(ii) Following any malfunction or failure of the capture or control devices to operate properly, you must take immediate corrective action to return the equipment to normal operation according to the manufacturer's specifications and operating instructions.
(iii) You must state in your annual certification that you have operated and maintained the control system according to the manufacturer's specifications and instructions.
(iv) You must record the results of all control system inspections, deviations from proper operation, and any corrective action taken.
(v) You must keep the manufacturer's operating instructions at the facility at all times in a location where they can be easily accessed by the operators.
(5) If you own or operate an affected flash or short-term electroplating tank that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(b), “What are my standards and management practices?” and you comply with § 11507(a), (b) or (c) of this subpart by limiting the plating time for the affected tank, you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must limit short-term or flash electroplating to no more than 1 cumulative hour per day or 3 cumulative minutes per hour of plating time.
(ii) You must record the times that the affected tank is operated each day.
(iii) You must state in your annual compliance certification that you have limited short-term or flash electroplating to no more than 1 cumulative hour per day or 3 cumulative minutes per hour of plating time.
(6) If you own or operate an affected batch electrolytic process tank that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and is subject to the requirements of § 63.11507(a), “What are my standards and management practices?” or a flash or short-term electroplating tank that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(b), and you comply with § 11507(a), (b) or (c) of this section by operating the affected tank with a cover, you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must operate the tank with the cover in place at least 95 percent of the electrolytic process operating time.
(ii) You must record the times that the tank is operated and the times that the tank is covered on a daily basis.
(iii) You must state in your annual certification that you have operated the tank with the cover in place at least 95 percent of the electrolytic process time.
(7) If you own or operate an affected continuous electrolytic process tank that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(a), “What are my standards and management practices?” and you comply with § 11507(a), (b) or (c) of this subpart by operating the affected tank with a cover, you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (d)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must operate the tank with at least 75 percent of the surface covered during all periods of electrolytic process operation.
(ii) You must state in your annual certification that you have operated the tank with 75 percent of the surface covered during all periods of electrolytic process operation.
(8) If you own or operate an affected tank or other operation that is subject to the management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?”, you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (d)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must implement the applicable management practices during all times that the affected tank or process is in operation.
(ii) You must state in your annual compliance certification that you have implemented the applicable management practices, as practicable.
[73 FR 37741, July 1, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 57920, Sept. 19, 2011]
§ 63.11509
What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?
(a) If you own or operate an affected source, as defined in § 63.11505(a), “What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?”, you must submit an Initial Notification in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section by the dates specified.
(1) The Initial Notification must include the information specified in § 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (iv) of the General Provisions of this part.
(2) The Initial Notification must include a description of the compliance method (e.g., use of wetting agent/fume suppressant) for each affected source.
(3) If you start up your affected source on or before July 1, 2008, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 calendar days after July 1, 2008, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.
(4) If you startup your new affected source after July 1, 2008, you must submit an Initial Notification when you become subject to this subpart.
(b) If you own or operate an affected source, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The Notification of Compliance Status must be submitted before the close of business on the compliance date specified in § 63.11506, “What are my compliance dates?”
(2) The Notification of Compliance Status must include the items specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) List of affected sources and the plating and polishing metal HAP used in, or emitted by, those sources.
(ii) Methods used to comply with the applicable management practices and equipment standards.
(iii) Description of the capture and emission control systems used to comply with the applicable equipment standards.
(iv) Statement by the owner or operator of the affected source as to whether the source is in compliance with the applicable standards or other requirements.
(3) If a facility makes a change to any items in (b)(2)(i), iii, and (iv) of this section that does not result in a deviation, an amended Notification of Compliance Status should be submitted within 30 days of the change.
(c) If you own or operate an affected source, you must prepare an annual certification of compliance report according to paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section. These reports do not
need to be submitted unless a deviation from the requirements of this subpart has occurred during the reporting year, in which case, the annual compliance report must be submitted along with the deviation report.
(1) If you own or operate an affected electroplating, electroforming, or electropolishing tank that is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(a)(1), “What are my standards and management practices?”, you must state in your annual compliance certification that you have added wetting agent/fume suppressant to the bath according to the manufacturer's specifications and instructions.
(2) If you own or operate any one of the affected sources listed in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, you must state in your annual certification that you have operated and maintained the control system according to the manufacturer's specifications and instructions.
(i) Electroplating, electroforming, or electropolishing tank that is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(a), “What are my standards and management practices?”, and you use a control system to comply with this subpart;
(ii) Dry mechanical polishing operation that is subject to § 63.11507(e); or
(iii) Permanent thermal spraying operation that is subject to § 63.11507(f)(1) or (2).
(3) If you own or operate an affected flash or short-term electroplating tank that is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(b), “What are my standards and management practices?” and you comply with § 11507(a), (b) or (c) of this subpart by limiting the plating time of the affected tank, you must state in your annual compliance certification that you have limited short-term or flash electroplating to no more than 1 cumulative hour per day or 3 cumulative minutes per hour of plating time.
(4) If you own or operate an affected batch electrolytic process tank that is subject to the requirements of § 63.11507(a) or a flash or short-term electroplating tank that is subject to the requirements in § 63.11507(b), “What are my standards and management practices?” and you comply with § 11507(a), (b) or (c) of this subpart by operating the affected tank with a cover, you must state in your annual certification that you have operated the tank with the cover in place at least 95 percent of the electrolytic process time.
(5) If you own or operate an affected continuous electrolytic process tank that is subject to the requirements of § 63.11507(a), “What are my standards and management practices?” and you comply with § 11507(a), (b) or (c) of this subpart by operating the affected tank with a cover, you must state in your annual certification that you have covered at least 75 percent of the surface area of the tank during all periods of electrolytic process operation.
(6) If you own or operate an affected tank or other affected plating and polishing operation that is subject to the management practices specified in § 63.11507(g), “What are my standards and management practices?” you must state in your annual compliance certification that you have implemented the applicable management practices, as practicable.
(7) Each annual compliance report must be prepared no later than January 31 of the year immediately following the reporting period and kept in a readily-accessible location for inspector review. If a deviation has occurred during the year, each annual compliance report must be submitted along with the deviation report, and postmarked or delivered no later than January 31 of the year immediately following the reporting period.
(d) If you own or operate an affected source, and any deviations from the compliance requirements specified in this subpart occurred during the year, you must report the deviations, along with the corrective action taken, and submit this report to the delegated authority.
(e) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) A copy of any Initial Notification and Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted and all documentation supporting those notifications.
(2) The records specified in § 63.10(b)(2)(i) through (iii) and (xiv) of the General Provisions of this part.
(3) The records required to show continuous compliance with each management practice and equipment standard that applies to you, as specified in § 63.11508(d), “What are my compliance requirements?”
(f) You must keep each record for a minimum of 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record. You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 63.10(b)(1) of the General Provisions to part 63. You may keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.
[73 FR 37741, July 1, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 57920, Sept. 19, 2011; 85 FR 73921, Nov. 19, 2020]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11510
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
If you own or operate a new or existing affected source, you must comply with the requirements of the General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) according to Table 1 of this subpart.
§ 63.11511
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in this section.
Batch electrolytic process tank
means a tank used for an electrolytic process in which a part or group of parts, typically mounted on racks or placed in barrels, is placed in the tank and immersed in an electrolytic process solution as a single unit (i.e., as a batch) for a predetermined period of time, during which none of the parts are removed from the tank and no other parts are added to the tank, and after which the part or parts are removed from the tank as a unit.
Bath
means the liquid contents of a tank, as defined in this section, which is used for electroplating, electroforming, electropolishing, or other metal coating processes at a plating and polishing facility.
Bench-scale
means any operation that is small enough to be performed on a bench, table, or similar structure so that the equipment is not directly contacting the floor.
Capture system
means the collection of components used to capture gases and fumes released from one or more emissions points and then convey the captured gas stream to a control device, as part of a complete control system. A capture system may include, but is not limited to, the following components as applicable to a given capture system design: duct intake devices, hoods, enclosures, ductwork, dampers, manifolds, plenums, and fans.
Cartridge filter
means a type of control device that uses perforated metal cartridges containing a pleated paper or non-woven fibrous filter media to remove PM from a gas stream by sieving and other mechanisms. Cartridge filters can be designed with single use cartridges, which are removed and disposed after reaching capacity, or continuous use cartridges, which typically are cleaned by means of a pulse-jet mechanism.
Composite
mesh pad means a type of control device similar to a mesh pad mist eliminator except that the device is designed with multiple pads in series that are woven with layers of material with varying fiber diameters, which produce a coalescing effect on the droplets or PM that impinge upon the pads.
Continuous electrolytic process tank
means a tank that uses an electrolytic process and in which a continuous metal strip or other type of continuous substrate is fed into and removed from the tank continuously. This process is also called reel-to-reel electrolytic plating.
Control device
means equipment that is part of a control system that collects and/or reduces the quantity of a pollutant that is emitted to the air. The control device receives emissions that are transported from the process by the capture system.
Control system
means the combination of a capture system and a control device. The capture system is designed to collect and transport air emissions from the affected source to the control device. The overall control efficiency of any control system is a combination of the ability of the system to capture
the air emissions (i.e., the capture efficiency) and the control device efficiency. Consequently, it is important to achieve good capture to ensure good overall control efficiency. Capture devices that are known to provide high capture efficiencies include hoods, enclosures, or any other duct intake devices with ductwork, dampers, manifolds, plenums, or fans.
Conversion coatings
are coatings that form a hard metal finish on an object when the object is submerged in a tank bath or solution that contains the conversion coatings. Conversion coatings for the purposes of this rule include coatings composed of chromium, as well as the other plating and polishing metal HAP, where no electrical current is used.
Cyanide plating
means plating processes performed in tanks that use cyanide as a major bath ingredient and that operate at pH of 12 or more, and use or emit any of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section. Electroplating and electroforming are performed with or without cyanide. The cyanide in the bath works to dissolve the HAP metal added as a cyanide compound (e.g., cadmium cyanide) and creates free cyanide in solution, which helps to corrode the anode. These tanks are self-regulating to a pH of 12 due to the caustic nature of the cyanide bath chemistry. The cyanide in the bath is a major bath constituent and not an additive; however, the self-regulating chemistry of the bath causes the bath to act as if wetting agents/fume suppressants are being used and to ensure an optimum plating process. All cyanide plating baths at pH greater than or equal to 12 have cyanide-metal complexes in solution. The metal HAP to be plated is not emitted because it is either bound in the metal-cyanide complex or reduced at the cathode to elemental metal, and plated onto the immersed parts. Cyanide baths are not intentionally operated at pH less 12 since unfavorable plating conditions would occur in the tank, among other negative effects.
Deviation
means any instance in which an affected source or an owner or operator of such an affected source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this rule including, but not limited to, any equipment standard (including emissions and operating limits), management practice, or operation and maintenance requirement;
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this rule and that is included in the operating permit for any affected facility required to obtain such a permit; or
(3) Fails to meet any equipment standard (including emission and operating limits), management standard, or operation and maintenance requirement in this rule during startup, shutdown, or malfunction.
Dry mechanical polishing
means a process used for removing defects from and smoothing the surface of finished metals and formed products after plating or thermal spraying with any of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section, using automatic or manually-operated machines that have hard-faced abrasive wheels or belts and where no liquids or fluids are used to trap the removed metal particles. The affected process does not include polishing with use of pastes, liquids, lubricants, or any other added materials.
Electroforming
means an electrolytic process using or emitting any of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section, that is used for fabricating metal parts. This process is essentially the same as electroplating except that the plated substrate (mandrel) is removed, leaving only the metal plate. In electroforming, the metal plate is self-supporting and generally thicker than in electroplating.
Electroless plating
means a non-electrolytic process that uses or emits any of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section, in which metallic ions in a plating bath or solution are reduced to form a metal coating at the surface of a catalytic substrate without the use of external electrical energy. Electroless plating is also called non-electrolytic plating. Examples include, but are not limited to, chromate conversion coating, nickel acetate sealing, sodium dichromate sealing, and manganese phosphate coating.
Electrolytic plating processes
means electroplating and electroforming that use or emit any of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section, where metallic ions in a plating bath or solution are reduced to form a metal coating on the surface of parts and products using electrical energy.
Electroplating
means an electrolytic process that uses or emits any of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section, in which metal ions in solution are reduced onto the surface of the work piece (the cathode) via an electrical current. The metal ions in the solution are usually replenished by the dissolution of metal from solid metal anodes fabricated of the same metal being plated, or by direct replenishment of the solution with metal salts or oxides; electroplating is also called electrolytic plating.
Electropolishing
means an electrolytic process performed in a tank after plating that uses or emits any of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section, in which a work piece is attached to an anode immersed in a bath, and the metal substrate is dissolved electrolytically, thereby removing the surface contaminant; electropolishing is also called electrolytic polishing. For the purposes of this subpart, electropolishing does not include bench-scale operations.
Fabric filter
means a type of control device used for collecting PM by filtering a process exhaust stream through a filter or filter media. A fabric filter is also known as a baghouse.
Filters,
for the purposes of this part, include cartridge, fabric, or HEPA filters, as defined in this section.
Flash electroplating
means an electrolytic process performed in a tank that uses or emits any of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section, and that is used no more than 3 cumulative minutes per hour or no more than 1 cumulative hour per day.
General Provisions of this part (40 CFR part 63, subpart A)
means the section of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that addresses air pollution rules that apply to all HAP sources addressed in part 63, which includes the National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP).
HAP
means hazardous air pollutant as defined from the list of 188 chemicals and compounds specified in the CAA Amendments of 1990; HAP are also called “air toxics.” The five plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section, are on this list of 188 chemicals.
High efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter
means a type of control device that uses a filter composed of a mat of randomly arranged fibers and is designed to remove at least 99.97 percent of airborne particles that are 0.3 micrometers or larger in diameter.
Maintenance
is any process at a plating and polishing facility that is performed to keep the process equipment or the facility operating properly and is not performed on items to be sold as products.
Major facility for HAP
is any facility that emits greater than 10 tpy of any HAP, or that emits a combined total of all HAP of over 25 tpy, where the HAP used to determine the total facility emissions are not restricted to only plating and polishing metal HAP or from only plating and polishing operations.
Mesh pad mist eliminator
means a type of control device, consisting of layers of interlocked filaments densely packed between two supporting grids that remove liquid droplets and PM from the gas stream through inertial impaction and direct interception.
Metal coating operation
means any process performed either in a tank that contains liquids or as part of a thermal spraying operation, that applies one or more plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section, to the surface of parts and products used in manufacturing. These processes include but are not limited to: non-chromium electroplating; electroforming; electropolishing; non-electrolytic metal coating processes, such as chromate conversion coating, electroless nickel plating, nickel acetate sealing, sodium dichromate sealing, and manganese phosphate coating; and thermal or flame spraying.
Metal HAP content of material used in plating and polishing
is the HAP content as determined from an analysis or engineering estimate of the HAP contents of the tank bath or solution, in
the case of plating, metal coating, or electropolishing; or the HAP content of the metal coating being applied in the case of thermal spraying. Safety data sheet (SDS) information may be used in lieu of testing or engineering estimates but is not required to be used.
New source
means any affected source for which you commenced construction or reconstruction after March 14, 2008.
Non-cyanide electrolytic plating and electropolishing processes
means electroplating, electroforming, and electropolishing that uses or emits any of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section, performed without cyanide in the tank. These processes do not use cyanide in the tank and operate at pH values less than 12. These processes use electricity and add or remove metals such as metal HAP from parts and products used in manufacturing. Both electroplating and electroforming can be performed with cyanide as well.
Non-electrolytic plating
means a process that uses or emits any of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section, in which metallic ions in a plating bath or solution are reduced to form a metal coating at the surface of a catalytic substrate without the use of external electrical energy. Non-electrolytic plating is also called electroless plating. Examples include chromate conversion coating, nickel acetate sealing, electroless nickel plating, sodium dichromate sealing, and manganese phosphate coating.
Packed-bed scrubber
means a type of control device that includes a single or double packed bed that contains packing media on which PM and droplets impinge and are removed from the gas stream. The packed-bed section of the scrubber is followed by a mist eliminator to remove any water entrained from the packed-bed section.
Plating and polishing facility
means a facility engaged in one or more of the following processes that uses or emits any of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section: electroplating processes other than chromium electroplating (
i.e.,
non-chromium electroplating); electroless plating; other non-electrolytic metal coating processes performed in a tank, such as chromate conversion coating, nickel acetate sealing, sodium dichromate sealing, and manganese phosphate coating; thermal spraying; and the dry mechanical polishing of finished metals and formed products after plating or thermal spraying. Plating is performed in a tank or thermally sprayed so that a metal coating is irreversibly applied to an object. Plating and polishing does not include any bench-scale processes.
Plating and polishing metal HAP
means any compound of any of the following metals: cadmium, chromium, lead, manganese, and nickel, or any of these metals in the elemental form, with the exception of lead. Any material that does not contain cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel in amounts greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by weight (as the metal), and does not contain manganese in amounts greater than or equal to 1.0 percent by weight (as the metal), as reported on the Material Safety Data Sheet for the material, is not considered to be a plating and polishing metal HAP.
Plating and polishing process tanks
means any tank in which a process is performed at an affected plating and polishing facility that uses or has the potential to emit any of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section. The processes performed in plating and polishing tanks include the following: electroplating processes other than chromium electroplating (
i.e.,
non-chromium electroplating) performed in a tank; electroless plating; and non-electrolytic metal coating processes, such as chromate conversion coating, nickel acetate sealing, sodium dichromate sealing, and manganese phosphate coating; and electropolishing. This term does not include tanks containing solutions that are used to clean, rinse or wash parts prior to placing the parts in a plating and polishing process tank, or subsequent to removing the parts from a plating and polishing process tank. This term also does not include any bench-scale operations.
PM
means solid or particulate matter that is emitted into the air.
Repair
means any process used to return a finished object or tool back to its original function or shape.
Research and development process unit
means any process unit that is used for conducting research and development for new processes and products and is not used to manufacture products for commercial sale, except in a
de minimis
manner.
Short-term plating
means an electroplating process that uses or emits any of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section, and that is used no more than 3 cumulative minutes per hour or 1 hour cumulative per day.
Startup of the tank bath
is when the components or relative proportions of the various components in the bath have been altered from the most recent operating period. Startup of the bath does not include events where only the tank's heating or agitation and other mechanical operations are turned back on after being turned off for a period of time.
Tank cover
for batch process units means a solid structure made of an impervious material that is designed to cover the entire open surface of a tank or process unit that is used for plating or other metal coating processes.
Tank cover
for continuous process units, means a solid structure or combination of structures, made of an impervious material that is designed to cover at least 75 percent of the open surface of the tank or process unit that is used for continuous plating or other continuous metal coating processes.
Temporary thermal spraying
means a thermal spraying operation that uses or emits any of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section, and that lasts no more than 1 hour in duration during any one day and is conducted in situ. Thermal spraying that is conducted in a dedicated thermal spray booth or structure is not considered to be temporary thermal spraying.
Thermal spraying
(also referred to as metal spraying or flame spraying) is a process that uses or emits any of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in this section, in which a metallic coating is applied by projecting heated, molten, or semi-molten metal particles onto a substrate. Commonly-used thermal spraying methods include high velocity oxy-fuel (HVOF) spraying, flame spraying, electric arc spraying, plasma arc spraying, and detonation gun spraying. This operation does not include spray painting at ambient temperatures.
Water curtain
means a type of control device that draws the exhaust stream through a continuous curtain of moving water to scrub out suspended PM.
Wetting agent/fume suppressant
means any chemical agent that reduces or suppresses fumes or mists from a plating and polishing tank by reducing the surface tension of the tank bath.
[73 FR 37741, July 1, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 57921, Sept. 19, 2011]
§ 63.11512
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by EPA or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If the EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the EPA Administrator and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under 40 CFR 63.6(g), of the General Provisions of this part.
(2) Approval of an alternative opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(h)(9), of the General Provisions of this part.
(3) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), of the General Provisions of this part. A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f), of the General Provisions of this part. A “major
change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(5) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), of the General Provisions of this part. A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
§ 63.11513
[Reserved]
Pt. 63, Subpt. WWWWWW, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart WWWWWW of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Plating and Polishing Area Sources
As required in § 63.11510, “What General Provisions apply to this subpart?”, you must meet each requirement in the following table that applies to you.
Citation
Subject
63.1
1
Applicability.
63.2
Definitions.
63.3
Units and abbreviations.
63.4
Prohibited activities.
63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), and (j)
Compliance with standards and maintenance requirements.
63.10(a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(i)-(iii), (xiv), (b)(3), (d)(1), (f)
Recordkeeping and reporting.
63.12
State authority and delegations.
63.13
Addresses of State air pollution control agencies and EPA regional offices.
63.14
Incorporation by reference.
63.15
Availability of information and confidentiality.
1
Section 63.11505(e), “What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?”, exempts affected sources from the obligation to obtain title V operating permits.
[73 FR 37741, July 1, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 57922, Sept. 19, 2011]

# Subpart XXXXXX—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants Area Source Standards for Nine Metal Fabrication and Finishing Source Categories

# Source:
73 FR 43000, July 23, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11514
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate an area source that is primarily engaged in the operations in one of the nine source categories listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section. Descriptions of these source categories are shown in Table 1 of this subpart. “Primarily engaged” is defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”
(1) Electrical and Electronic Equipment Finishing Operations;
(2) Fabricated Metal Products;
(3) Fabricated Plate Work (Boiler Shops);
(4) Fabricated Structural Metal Manufacturing;
(5) Heating Equipment, except Electric;
(6) Industrial Machinery and Equipment Finishing Operations;
(7) Iron and Steel Forging;
(8) Primary Metal Products Manufacturing; and
(9) Valves and Pipe Fittings.
(b) The provisions of this subpart apply to each new and existing affected source listed and defined in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section if you use materials that contain or have the potential to emit metal fabrication or finishing metal HAP (MFHAP), defined to be the compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, manganese, and nickel, or any of these metals in the elemental form with the exception of lead. Materials that contain MFHAP are defined to be materials that contain greater than 0.1 percent for carcinogens, as defined by OSHA at 29 CFR 1910.1200(d)(4), and greater than 1.0 percent for noncarcinogens. For the MFHAP, this corresponds to materials that contain cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel in amounts greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by weight (of the metal), and materials that contain manganese in amounts greater than or equal to 1.0
percent by weight (of the metal), as shown in formulation data provided by the manufacturer or supplier, such as the Material Safety Data Sheet for the material.
(1) A dry abrasive blasting affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to perform dry abrasive blasting operations which use materials that contain MFHAP or that have the potential to emit MFHAP.
(2) A machining affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to perform machining operations which use materials that contain MFHAP, as defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, or that have the potential to emit MFHAP.
(3) A dry grinding and dry polishing with machines affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to perform dry grinding and dry polishing with machines operations which use materials that contain MFHAP, as defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, or have the potential to emit MFHAP.
(4) A spray painting affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to perform spray-applied painting operations using paints which contain MFHAP. A spray painting affected source includes all equipment used to apply cleaning materials to a substrate to prepare it for paint application (surface preparation) or to remove dried paint; to apply a paint to a substrate (paint application) and to dry or cure the paint after application; or to clean paint operation equipment (equipment cleaning). Affected source(s) subject to the requirements of this paragraph are not subject to the miscellaneous surface coating provisions of subpart HHHHHH of this part, “National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paint Stripping and Miscellaneous Surface Coating Operations at Area Sources.”
(5) A welding affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to perform welding operations which use materials that contain MFHAP, as defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, or have the potential to emit MFHAP.
(c) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source, as defined in § 63.2, “General Provisions” to part 63, before April 3, 2008.
(d) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source, as defined in § 63.2, “General Provisions” to part 63, on or after April 3, 2008.
(e) This subpart does not apply to research or laboratory facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).
(f) This subpart does not apply to tool or equipment repair operations, facility maintenance, or quality control activities as defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”
(g) This subpart does not apply to operations performed on site at installations owned or operated by the Armed Forces of the United States (including the Coast Guard and the National Guard of any such state), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or the National Nuclear Security Administration.
(h) This subpart does not apply to operations that produce military munitions, as defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, manufactured by or for the Armed Forces of the United States (including the Coast Guard and the National Guard of any such state), or equipment directly and exclusively used for the purposes of transporting military munitions.
(i) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
§ 63.11515
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart by July 25, 2011.
(b) If you own or operate a new affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart by July 23, 2008, or upon startup of your affected source, whichever is later.

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11516
What are my standards and management practices?
(a)
Dry abrasive blasting standards.
If you own or operate a new or existing dry abrasive blasting affected source, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable, for each dry abrasive blasting operation that uses materials that contain MFHAP, as defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, or has the potential to emit MFHAP. These requirements do not apply when abrasive blasting operations are being performed that do not use any materials containing MFHAP or do not have the potential to emit MFHAP.
(1)
Standards for dry abrasive blasting of objects performed in totally enclosed and unvented blast chambers.
If you own or operate a new or existing dry abrasive blasting affected source which consists of an abrasive blasting chamber that is totally enclosed and unvented, as defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, you must implement management practices to minimize emissions of MFHAP. These management practices are the practices specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must minimize dust generation during emptying of abrasive blasting enclosures; and
(ii) You must operate all equipment associated with dry abrasive blasting operations according to the manufacturer's instructions.
(2)
Standards for dry abrasive blasting of objects performed in vented enclosures.
If you own or operate a new or existing dry abrasive blasting affected source which consists of a dry abrasive blasting operation which has a vent allowing any air or blast material to escape, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. Dry abrasive blasting operations for which the items to be blasted exceed 8 feet (2.4 meters) in any dimension, may be performed subject to the requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(i) You must capture emissions and vent them to a filtration control device. You must operate the filtration control device according to manufacturer's instructions, and you must demonstrate compliance with this requirement by maintaining a record of the manufacturer's specifications for the filtration control devices, as specified by the requirements in § 63.11519(c)(4), “What are my notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements?”
(ii) You must implement the management practices to minimize emissions of MFHAP as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) You must take measures necessary to minimize excess dust in the surrounding area to reduce MFHAP emissions, as practicable; and
(B) You must enclose dusty abrasive material storage areas and holding bins, seal chutes and conveyors that transport abrasive materials; and
(C) You must operate all equipment associated with dry abrasive blasting operations according to manufacturer's instructions.
(3)
Standards for dry abrasive blasting of objects greater than 8 feet (2.4 meters) in any one dimension.
If you own or operate a new or existing dry abrasive blasting affected source which consists of a dry abrasive blasting operation which is performed on objects greater than 8 feet (2.4 meters) in any one dimension, you may implement management practices to minimize emissions of MFHAP as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section instead of the practices required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section. You must demonstrate that management practices are being implemented by complying with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Management practices for dry abrasive blasting of objects greater than 8 feet (2.4 meters) in any one dimension are specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(A) through (E) of this section.
(A) You must take measures necessary to minimize excess dust in the surrounding area to reduce MFHAP emissions, as practicable; and
(B) You must enclose abrasive material storage areas and holding bins, seal chutes and conveyors that transport abrasive material; and
(C) You must operate all equipment associated with dry abrasive blasting operations according to manufacturer's instructions; and
(D) You must not re-use dry abrasive blasting media unless contaminants (i.e., any material other than the base metal, such as paint residue) have been removed by filtration or screening, and the abrasive material conforms to its original size; and
(E) Whenever practicable, you must switch from high particulate matter (PM)-emitting blast media (e.g., sand) to low PM-emitting blast media (e.g., crushed glass, specular hematite, steel shot, aluminum oxide), where PM is a surrogate for MFHAP.
(ii) You must perform visual determinations of fugitive emissions, as specified in § 63.11517(b), “What are my monitoring requirements?”, according to paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, as applicable.
(A) For abrasive blasting of objects greater than 8 feet (2.4 meters) in any one dimension that is performed outdoors, you must perform visual determinations of fugitive emissions at the fenceline or property border nearest to the outdoor dry abrasive blasting operation.
(B) For abrasive blasting of objects greater than 8 feet (2.4 meters) in any one dimension that is performed indoors, you must perform visual determinations of fugitive emissions at the primary vent, stack, exit, or opening from the building containing the abrasive blasting operations.
(iii) You must keep a record of all visual determinations of fugitive emissions along with any corrective action taken in accordance with the requirements in § 63.11519(c)(2), “What are my notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements?”
(iv) If visible fugitive emissions are detected, you must perform corrective actions until the visible fugitive emissions are eliminated, at which time you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) You must perform a follow-up inspection for visible fugitive emissions in accordance with § 63.11517(a), “Monitoring Requirements.”
(B) You must report all instances where visible emissions are detected, along with any corrective action taken and the results of subsequent follow-up inspections for visible emissions, with your annual certification and compliance report as required by § 63.11519(b)(5), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”
(b)
Standards for machining.
If you own or operate a new or existing machining affected source, you must implement management practices to minimize emissions of MFHAP as specified in paragraph (b)(1) and (2) of this section for each machining operation that uses materials that contain MFHAP, as defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, or has the potential to emit MFHAP. These requirements do not apply when machining operations are being performed that do not use any materials containing MFHAP and do not have the potential to emit MFHAP.
(1) You must take measures necessary to minimize excess dust in the surrounding area to reduce MFHAP emissions, as practicable; and
(2) You must operate all equipment associated with machining according to manufacturer's instructions.
(c)
Standards for dry grinding and dry polishing with machines.
If you own or operate a new or existing dry grinding and dry polishing with machines affected source, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section for each dry grinding and dry polishing with machines operation that uses materials that contain MFHAP, as defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, or has the potential to emit MFHAP. These requirements do not apply when dry grinding and dry polishing operations are being performed that do not use any materials containing MFHAP and do not have the potential to emit MFHAP.
(1) You must capture emissions and vent them to a filtration control device. You must demonstrate compliance with this requirement by maintaining a record of the manufacturer's specifications for the filtration control devices, as specified by the requirements in § 63.11519(c)(4), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting Requirements.”
(2) You must implement management practices to minimize emissions of MFHAP as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must take measures necessary to minimize excess dust in the surrounding area to reduce MFHAP emissions, as practicable;
(ii) You must operate all equipment associated with the operation of dry grinding and dry polishing with machines, including the filtration control device, according to manufacturer's instructions.
(d)
Standards for control of MFHAP in spray painting.
If you own or operate a new or existing spray painting affected source, as defined in § 63.11514 (b)(4), “Am I subject to this subpart?,” you must implement the management practices in paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section when a spray-applied paint that contains MFHAP is being applied. These requirements do not apply when spray-applied paints that do not contain MFHAP are being applied.
(1)
Standards for spray painting for MFHAP control.
All spray-applied painting of objects must meet the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. These requirements do not apply to affected sources located at Fabricated Structural Metal Manufacturing facilities, as described in Table 1, “Description of Source Categories Affected by this Subpart,” or affected sources that spray paint objects greater than 15 feet (4.57 meters), that are not spray painted in spray booths or spray rooms.
(i) Spray booths or spray rooms must have a full roof, at least two complete walls, and one or two complete side curtains or other barrier material so that all four sides are covered. The spray booths or spray rooms must be ventilated so that air is drawn into the booth and leaves only though the filter. The roof may contain narrow slots for connecting fabricated products to overhead cranes, and/or for cords or cables.
(ii) All spray booths or spray rooms must be fitted with a type of filter technology that is demonstrated to achieve at least 98 percent capture of MFHAP. The procedure used to demonstrate filter efficiency must be consistent with the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Method 52.1, “Gravimetric and Dust-Spot Procedures for Testing Air-Cleaning Devices Used in General Ventilation for Removing Particulate Matter, June 4, 1992” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14). The test coating for measuring filter efficiency shall be a high-solids bake enamel delivered at a rate of at least 135 grams per minute from a conventional (non-High Volume Low Pressure) air-atomized spray gun operating at 40 psi air pressure; the air flow rate across the filter shall be 150 feet per minute. Owners and operators may use published filter efficiency data provided by filter vendors to demonstrate compliance with this requirement and are not required to perform this measurement.
(iii) You must perform regular inspection and replacement of the filters in all spray booths or spray rooms according to manufacturer's instructions, and maintain documentation of these activities, as detailed in § 63.11519(c)(5), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”
(iv) As an alternative compliance requirement, spray booths or spray rooms equipped with a water curtain, called “waterwash” or “waterspray” booths or spray rooms that are operated and maintained according to the manufacturer's specifications and that achieve at least 98 percent control of MFHAP, may be used in lieu of the spray booths or spray rooms requirements of paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(2)
Standards for spray painting application equipment of all objects painted for MFHAP control.
All paints applied via spray-applied painting must be applied with a high-volume, low-pressure (HVLP) spray gun, electrostatic application, airless spray gun, air-assisted airless spray gun, or an equivalent
technology that is demonstrated to achieve transfer efficiency comparable to one of these spray gun technologies for a comparable operation, and for which written approval has been obtained from the Administrator. The procedure used to demonstrate that spray gun transfer efficiency is equivalent to that of an HVLP spray gun must be equivalent to the California South Coast Air Quality Management District's “Spray Equipment Transfer Efficiency Test Procedure for Equipment User, May 24, 1989” and “Guidelines for Demonstrating Equivalency with District Approved Transfer Efficient Spray Guns, September 26, 2002”, Revision 0 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
(3)
Spray system recordkeeping.
You must maintain documentation of the HVLP or other high transfer efficiency spray paint delivery methods, as detailed in § 63.11519(c)(7), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”
(4)
Spray gun cleaning.
All cleaning of paint spray guns must be done with either non-HAP gun cleaning solvents, or in such a manner that an atomized mist of spray of gun cleaning solvent and paint residue is not created outside of a container that collects the used gun cleaning solvent. Spray gun cleaning may be done with, for example, by hand cleaning of parts of the disassembled gun in a container of solvent, by flushing solvent through the gun without atomizing the solvent and paint residue, or by using a fully enclosed spray gun washer. A combination of these non-atomizing methods may also be used.
(5)
Spray painting worker certification.
All workers performing painting must be certified that they have completed training in the proper spray application of paints and the proper setup and maintenance of spray equipment. The minimum requirements for training and certification are described in paragraph (d)(6) of this section. The spray application of paint is prohibited by persons who are not certified as having completed the training described in paragraph (d)(6) of this section. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply to the students of an accredited painting training program who are under the direct supervision of an instructor who meets the requirements of this paragraph. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply to operators of robotic or automated painting operations.
(6)
Spray painting training program content.
Each owner or operator of an affected spray painting affected source must ensure and certify that all new and existing personnel, including contract personnel, who spray apply paints are trained in the proper application of paints as required by paragraph (d)(5) of this section. The training program must include, at a minimum, the items listed in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) A list of all current personnel by name and job description who are required to be trained;
(ii) Hands-on, or in-house or external classroom instruction that addresses, at a minimum, initial and refresher training in the topics listed in paragraphs (d)(6)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) Spray gun equipment selection, set up, and operation, including measuring paint viscosity, selecting the proper fluid tip or nozzle, and achieving the proper spray pattern, air pressure and volume, and fluid delivery rate.
(B) Spray technique for different types of paints to improve transfer efficiency and minimize paint usage and overspray, including maintaining the correct spray gun distance and angle to the part, using proper banding and overlap, and reducing lead and lag spraying at the beginning and end of each stroke.
(C) Routine spray booth and filter maintenance, including filter selection and installation.
(D) Environmental compliance with the requirements of this subpart.
(iii) A description of the methods to be used at the completion of initial or refresher training to demonstrate, document, and provide certification of successful completion of the required training. Alternatively, owners and operators who can show by documentation or certification that a painter's work experience and/or training has resulted in training equivalent to the training required in paragraph (d)(6)(ii)
of this section are not required to provide the initial training required by that paragraph to these painters.
(7)
Records of spray painting training.
You must maintain records of employee training certification for use of HVLP or other high transfer efficiency spray paint delivery methods as detailed in § 63.11519(c)(8), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”
(8)
Spray painting training dates.
As required by paragraph (d)(5) of this section, all new and existing personnel at an affected spray painting affected source, including contract personnel, who spray apply paints must be trained by the dates specified in paragraphs (d)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) If your source is a new source, all personnel must be trained and certified no later than January 20, 2009, 180 days after startup, or 180 days after hiring, whichever is later. Training that was completed within 5 years prior to the date training is required, and that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section satisfies this requirement and is valid for a period not to exceed 5 years after the date the training is completed.
(ii) If your source is an existing source, all personnel must be trained and certified no later than July 25, 2011, or 180 days after hiring, whichever is later. Worker training that was completed within 5 years prior to the date training is required, and that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section, satisfies this requirement and is valid for a period not to exceed 5 years after the date the training is completed.
(9)
Duration of training validity.
Training and certification will be valid for a period not to exceed 5 years after the date the training is completed. All personnel must receive refresher training that meets the requirements of this section and be re-certified every 5 years.
(e) [Reserved]
(f)
Standards for welding.
If you own or operate a new or existing welding affected source, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section for each welding operation that uses materials that contain MFHAP, as defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, or has the potential to emit MFHAP. If your welding affected source uses 2,000 pounds or more per year of welding rod containing one or more MFHAP (calculated on a rolling 12-month basis), you must demonstrate that management practices or fume control measures are being implemented by complying with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(3) through (8) of this section. The requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (8) of this section do not apply when welding operations are being performed that do not use any materials containing MFHAP or do not have the potential to emit MFHAP.
(1) You must operate all equipment, capture, and control devices associated with welding operations according to manufacturer's instructions. You must demonstrate compliance with this requirement by maintaining a record of the manufacturer's specifications for the capture and control devices, as specified by the requirements in § 63.11519(c)(4), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”
(2) You must implement one or more of the management practices specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (v) of this section to minimize emissions of MFHAP, as practicable, while maintaining the required welding quality through the application of sound engineering judgment.
(i) Use welding processes with reduced fume generation capabilities (e.g., gas metal arc welding (GMAW)—also called metal inert gas welding (MIG));
(ii) Use welding process variations (e.g., pulsed current GMAW), which can reduce fume generation rates;
(iii) Use welding filler metals, shielding gases, carrier gases, or other process materials which are capable of reduced welding fume generation;
(iv) Optimize welding process variables (e.g., electrode diameter, voltage, amperage, welding angle, shield gas flow rate, travel speed) to reduce the amount of welding fume generated; and
(v) Use a welding fume capture and control system, operated according to the manufacturer's specifications.
(3)
Tier 1 compliance requirements for welding.
You must perform visual determinations of welding fugitive emissions as specified in § 63.11517(b), “Monitoring requirements,” at the primary vent, stack, exit, or opening from the building containing the welding operations. You must keep a record of all visual determinations of fugitive emissions along with any corrective action taken in accordance with the requirements in § 63.11519(c)(2), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”
(4)
Requirements upon initial detection of visible emissions from welding.
If visible fugitive emissions are detected during any visual determination required in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Perform corrective actions that include, but are not limited to, inspection of welding fume sources, and evaluation of the proper operation and effectiveness of the management practices or fume control measures implemented in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section. After completing such corrective actions, you must perform a follow-up inspection for visible fugitive emissions in accordance with § 63.11517(a), “Monitoring Requirements,” at the primary vent, stack, exit, or opening from the building containing the welding operations.
(ii) Report all instances where visible emissions are detected, along with any corrective action taken and the results of subsequent follow-up inspections for visible emissions, and submit with your annual certification and compliance report as required by § 63.11519(b)(5), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”
(5)
Tier 2 requirements upon subsequent detection of visible emissions.
If visible fugitive emissions are detected more than once during any consecutive 12 month period (notwithstanding the results of any follow-up inspections), you must comply with paragraphs (f)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Within 24 hours of the end of the visual determination of fugitive emissions in which visible fugitive emissions were detected, you must conduct a visual determination of emissions opacity, as specified in § 63.11517(c), “Monitoring requirements,” at the primary vent, stack, exit, or opening from the building containing the welding operations.
(ii) In lieu of the requirement of paragraph (f)(3) of this section to perform visual determinations of fugitive emissions with EPA Method 22, you must perform visual determinations of emissions opacity in accordance with § 63.11517(d), “Monitoring Requirements,” using EPA Method 9, at the primary vent, stack, exit, or opening from the building containing the welding operations.
(iii) You must keep a record of each visual determination of emissions opacity performed in accordance with paragraphs (f)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section, along with any subsequent corrective action taken, in accordance with the requirements in § 63.11519(c)(3), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”
(iv) You must report the results of all visual determinations of emissions opacity performed in accordance with paragraphs (f)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section, along with any subsequent corrective action taken, and submit with your annual certification and compliance report as required by § 63.11519(b)(6), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”
(6)
Requirements for opacities less than or equal to 20 percent but greater than zero.
For each visual determination of emissions opacity performed in accordance with paragraph (f)(5) of this section for which the average of the six-minute average opacities recorded is 20 percent or less but greater than zero, you must perform corrective actions, including inspection of all welding fume sources, and evaluation of the proper operation and effectiveness of the management practices or fume control measures implemented in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(7)
Tier 3 requirements for opacities exceeding 20 percent.
For each visual determination of emissions opacity performed in accordance with paragraph (f)(5) of this section for which the average of the six-minute average opacities recorded exceeds 20 percent, you must
comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(7)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) You must submit a report of exceedence of 20 percent opacity, along with your annual certification and compliance report, as specified in § 63.11519(b)(8), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements,” and according to the requirements of § 63.11519(b)(1), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”
(ii) Within 30 days of the opacity exceedence, you must prepare and implement a Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan, as specified in paragraph (f)(8) of this section. If you have already prepared a Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan in accordance with this paragraph, you must prepare and implement a revised Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan within 30 days.
(iii) During the preparation (or revision) of the Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan, you must continue to perform visual determinations of emissions opacity, beginning on a daily schedule as specified in § 63.11517(d), “Monitoring Requirements,” using EPA Method 9, at the primary vent, stack, exit, or opening from the building containing the welding operations.
(iv) You must maintain records of daily visual determinations of emissions opacity performed in accordance with paragraph (f)(7)(iii) of this section, during preparation of the Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan, in accordance with the requirements in § 63.11519(b)(9), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”
(v) You must include these records in your annual certification and compliance report, according to the requirements of § 63.11519(b)(1), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”
(8)
Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan.
The Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan must contain the information in paragraphs (f)(8)(i)(A) through (F) of this section.
(A) Company name and address;
(B) A list and description of all welding operations which currently comprise the welding affected source;
(C) A description of all management practices and/or fume control methods in place at the time of the opacity exceedence;
(D) A list and description of all management practices and/or fume control methods currently employed for the welding affected source;
(E) A description of additional management practices and/or fume control methods to be implemented pursuant to paragraph (f)(7)(ii) of this section, and the projected date of implementation; and
(F) Any revisions to a Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan must contain copies of all previous plan entries, pursuant to paragraphs (f)(8)(i)(D) and (E) of this section.
(ii) The Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan must be updated annually to contain current information, as required by paragraphs (f)(8)(i)(A) through (C) of this section, and submitted with your annual certification and compliance report, according to the requirements of § 63.11519(b)(1), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”
(iii) You must maintain a copy of the current Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan in your records in a readily-accessible location for inspector review, in accordance with the requirements in § 63.11519(c)(12), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”
§ 63.11517
What are my monitoring requirements?
(a)
Visual determination of fugitive emissions, general.
Visual determination of fugitive emissions must be performed according to the procedures of EPA Method 22, of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A-7. You must conduct the EPA Method 22 test while the affected source is operating under normal conditions. The duration of each EPA
Method 22 test must be at least 15 minutes, and visible emissions will be considered to be present if they are detected for more than six minutes of the fifteen minute period.
(b)
Visual determination of fugitive emissions, graduated schedule.
Visual determinations of fugitive emissions must be performed in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section and according to the schedule in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1)
Daily Method 22 Testing.
Perform visual determination of fugitive emissions once per day, on each day the process is in operation, during operation of the process.
(2)
Weekly Method 22 Testing.
If no visible fugitive emissions are detected in consecutive daily EPA Method 22 tests, performed in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section for 10 days of work day operation of the process, you may decrease the frequency of EPA Method 22 testing to once every five days of operation of the process (one calendar week). If visible fugitive emissions are detected during these tests, you must resume EPA Method 22 testing of that operation once per day during each day that the process is in operation, in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3)
Monthly Method 22 Testing.
If no visible fugitive emissions are detected in four consecutive weekly EPA Method 22 tests performed in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, you may decrease the frequency of EPA Method 22 testing to once per 21 days of operation of the process (one calendar month). If visible fugitive emissions are detected during these tests, you must resume weekly EPA Method 22 in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4)
Quarterly Method 22 Testing.
If no visible fugitive emissions are detected in three consecutive monthly EPA Method 22 tests performed in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, you may decrease the frequency of EPA Method 22 testing to once per 60 days of operation of the process (3 calendar months). If visible fugitive emissions are detected during these tests, you must resume monthly EPA Method 22 in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(c)
Visual determination of emissions opacity for welding Tier 2 or 3, general.
Visual determination of emissions opacity must be performed in accordance with the procedures of EPA Method 9, of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A-4, and while the affected source is operating under normal conditions. The duration of the EPA Method 9 test shall be thirty minutes.
(d)
Visual determination of emissions opacity for welding Tier 2 or 3, graduated schedule.
You must perform visual determination of emissions opacity in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and according to the schedule in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1)
Daily Method 9 testing for welding, Tier 2 or 3.
Perform visual determination of emissions opacity once per day during each day that the process is in operation.
(2)
Weekly Method 9 testing for welding, Tier 2 or 3.
If the average of the six minute opacities recorded during any of the daily consecutive EPA Method 9 tests performed in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section does not exceed 20 percent for 10 days of operation of the process, you may decrease the frequency of EPA Method 9 testing to once per five days of consecutive work day operation. If opacity greater than 20 percent is detected during any of these tests, you must resume testing every day of operation of the process according to the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(3)
Monthly Method 9 testing for welding Tier 2 or 3.
If the average of the six minute opacities recorded during any of the consecutive weekly EPA Method 9 tests performed in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section does not exceed 20 percent for four consecutive weekly tests, you may decrease the frequency of EPA Method 9 testing to once per every 21 days of operation of the process. If visible emissions opacity greater than 20 percent is detected during any monthly test, you must resume testing every five days of operation of the process according to the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(4)
Quarterly Method 9 testing for welding Tier 2 or 3.
If the average of the six minute opacities recorded during any
of the consecutive weekly EPA Method 9 tests performed in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section does not exceed 20 percent for three consecutive monthly tests, you may decrease the frequency of EPA Method 9 testing to once per every 120 days of operation of the process. If visible emissions opacity greater than 20 percent is detected during any quarterly test, you must resume testing every 21 days (month) of operation of the process according to the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(5)
Return to Method 22 testing for welding, Tier 2 or 3.
If, after two consecutive months of testing, the average of the six minute opacities recorded during any of the monthly EPA Method 9 tests performed in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section does not exceed 20 percent, you may resume EPA Method 22 testing as in paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section. In lieu of this, you may elect to continue performing EPA Method 9 tests in accordance with paragraphs (d)(3)and (4) of this section.
§ 63.11518
[Reserved]
§ 63.11519
What are my notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements?
(a)
What notifications must I submit?
—(1)
Initial notification.
If you are the owner or operator of an area source in one of the nine metal fabrication and finishing source categories, as defined in § 63.11514, you must submit the initial notification required by § 63.9(b), for a new affected source no later than 120 days after initial startup, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, or November 20, 2008, whichever is later. For an existing affected source, you must submit the initial notification no later than July 25, 2011, or 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. Your initial notification must provide the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) The name, address, phone number and e-mail address of the owner and operator;
(ii) The address (physical location) of the affected source;
(iii) An identification of the relevant standard (i.e., this subpart); and
(iv) A brief description of the type of operation. For example, a brief characterization of the types of products (e.g., aerospace components, sports equipment, etc.), the number and type of processes, and the number of workers usually employed.
(2)
Notification of compliance status.
If you are the owner or operator of an existing affected source, you must submit a notification of compliance status on or before November 22, 2011. If you are the owner or operator of a new affected source, you must submit a notification of compliance status within 120 days after initial startup, or by November 20, 2008, whichever is later. You are required to submit the information specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section with your notification of compliance status:
(i) Your company's name and address;
(ii) A statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart;
(iii) If you operate any spray painting affected sources, the information required by § 63.11516(e)(3)(vi)(C), “Compliance demonstration,” or § 63.11516(e)(4)(ix)(C), “Compliance demonstration,” as applicable; and
(iv) The date of the notification of compliance status.
(b)
What reports must I prepare or submit?
—(1)
Annual certification and compliance reports.
You must prepare and submit annual certification and compliance reports for each affected source according to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) through (7) of this section. The annual certification and compliance reporting requirements may be satisfied by reports required under other parts of the CAA, as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2)
Dates.
Unless the Administrator has approved or agreed to a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), “General Provisions,”
you must prepare and submit each annual certification and compliance report according to the dates specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. Note that the information reported for each of the months in the reporting period will be based on the last 12 months of data prior to the date of each monthly calculation.
(i) The first annual certification and compliance report must cover the first annual reporting period which begins the day after the compliance date and ends on December 31.
(ii) Each subsequent annual certification and compliance report must cover the subsequent semiannual reporting period from January 1 through December 31.
(iii) Each annual certification and compliance report must be prepared and submitted no later than January 31 and kept in a readily-accessible location for inspector review. If an exceedence has occurred during the year, each annual certification and compliance report must be submitted along with the exceedence reports, and postmarked or delivered no later than January 31.
(3)
Alternate dates.
For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, “Title V.”
(i) If the permitting authority has established dates for submitting annual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), “Title V,” you may prepare or submit, if required, the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the date specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.
(ii) If an affected source prepares or submits an annual certification and compliance report pursuant to this section along with, or as part of, the monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), “Title V,” and the compliance report includes all required information concerning exceedences of any limitation in this subpart, its submission will be deemed to satisfy any obligation to report the same exceedences in the annual monitoring report. However, submission of an annual certification and compliance report shall not otherwise affect any obligation the affected source may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the permitting authority.
(4)
General requirements.
The annual certification and compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, and the information specified in paragraphs (b)(5) through (7) of this section that is applicable to each affected source.
(i) Company name and address;
(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report; and
(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the 12-month period ending on December 31. Note that the information reported for the 12 months in the reporting period will be based on the last 12 months of data prior to the date of each monthly calculation.
(5)
Visual determination of fugitive emissions requirements.
The annual certification and compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section for each affected source which performs visual determination of fugitive emissions in accordance with § 63.11517(a), “Monitoring requirements.”
(i) The date of every visual determination of fugitive emissions which resulted in detection of visible emissions;
(ii) A description of the corrective actions taken subsequent to the test; and
(iii) The date and results of the follow-up visual determination of fugitive emissions performed after the corrective actions.
(6)
Visual determination of emissions opacity requirements.
The annual certification and compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section for each affected source which performs visual determination of emissions opacity in accordance with
§ 63.11517(c), “Monitoring requirements.”
(i) The date of every visual determination of emissions opacity;
(ii) The average of the six-minute opacities measured by the test; and
(iii) A description of any corrective action taken subsequent to the test.
(7) [Reserved]
(8)
Exceedences of 20 percent opacity for welding affected sources.
As required by § 63.11516(f)(7)(i), “Requirements for opacities exceeding 20 percent,” you must prepare an exceedence report whenever the average of the six-minute average opacities recorded during a visual determination of emissions opacity exceeds 20 percent. This report must be submitted along with your annual certification and compliance report according to the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and must contain the information in paragraphs (b)(8)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) The date on which the exceedence occurred; and
(B) The average of the six-minute average opacities recorded during the visual determination of emissions opacity.
(9)
Site-specific Welding Emissions Management Plan reporting.
You must submit a copy of the records of daily visual determinations of emissions recorded in accordance with § 63.11516(f)(7)(iv), “Tier 3 requirements for opacities exceeding 20 percent,” and a copy of your Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan and any subsequent revisions to the plan pursuant to § 63.11516(f)(8), “Site-specific Welding Emission Management Plan,” along with your annual certification and compliance report, according to the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
What records must I keep?
You must collect and keep records of the data and information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (13) of this section, according to the requirements in paragraph (c)(14) of this section.
(1)
General compliance and applicability records.
Maintain information specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (ii) of this section for each affected source.
(i) Each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, and the documentation supporting each notification and report.
(ii) Records of the applicability determinations as in § 63.11514(b)(1) through (5), “Am I subject to this subpart,” listing equipment included in its affected source, as well as any changes to that and on what date they occurred, must be maintained for 5 years and be made available for inspector review at any time.
(2)
Visual determination of fugitive emissions records.
Maintain a record of the information specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section for each affected source which performs visual determination of fugitive emissions in accordance with § 63.11517(a), “Monitoring requirements.”
(i) The date and results of every visual determination of fugitive emissions;
(ii) A description of any corrective action taken subsequent to the test; and
(iii) The date and results of any follow-up visual determination of fugitive emissions performed after the corrective actions.
(3)
Visual determination of emissions opacity records.
Maintain a record of the information specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section for each affected source which performs visual determination of emissions opacity in accordance with § 63.11517(c), “Monitoring requirements.”
(i) The date of every visual determination of emissions opacity; and
(ii) The average of the six-minute opacities measured by the test; and
(iii) A description of any corrective action taken subsequent to the test.
(4) Maintain a record of the manufacturer's specifications for the control devices used to comply with § 63.11516, “What are my standards and management practices?”
(5)
Spray paint booth filter records.
Maintain a record of the filter efficiency demonstrations and spray paint booth filter maintenance activities, performed in accordance with § 63.11516(d)(1)(ii) and (iii), “Requirements for spray painting objects in spray booths or spray rooms.”
(6) Waterspray booth or water curtain efficiency tests. Maintain a record of the water curtain efficiency demonstrations performed in accordance with § 63.11516(d)(1)(ii), “Requirements for spray painting objects in spray booths or spray rooms.”
(7)
HVLP or other high transfer efficiency spray delivery system documentation records.
Maintain documentation of HVLP or other high transfer efficiency spray paint delivery systems, in compliance with § 63.11516(d)(3), “Requirements for spray painting of all objects.” This documentation must include the manufacturer's specifications for the equipment and any manufacturer's operation instructions. If you have obtained written approval for an alternative spray application system in accordance with § 63.11516(d)(2), “Spray painting of all objects,” you must maintain a record of that approval along with documentation of the demonstration of equivalency.
(8)
HVLP or other high transfer efficiency spray delivery system employee training documentation records.
Maintain certification that each worker performing spray painting operations has completed the training specified in § 63.11516(d)(6), “Requirements for spray painting of all objects,” with the date the initial training and the most recent refresher training was completed.
(9)-(10) [Reserved]
(11)
Visual determination of emissions opacity performed during the preparation (or revision) of the Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan.
You must maintain a record of each visual determination of emissions opacity performed during the preparation (or revision) of a Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan, in accordance with § 63.11516(f)(7)(iii), “Requirements for opacities exceeding 20 percent.”
(12)
Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan.
If you have been required to prepare a plan in accordance with § 63.11516(f)(7)(iii), “Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan,” you must maintain a copy of your current Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan in your records and it must be readily available for inspector review.
(13)
Manufacturer's instructions.
If you comply with this subpart by operating any equipment according to manufacturer's instruction, you must keep these instructions readily available for inspector review.
(14) Welding Rod usage. If you operate a new or existing welding affected source which is not required to comply with the requirements of § 63.11516(f)(3) through (8) because it uses less than 2,000 pounds per year of welding rod (on a rolling 12-month basis), you must maintain records demonstrating your welding rod usage on a rolling 12-month basis.
(15) Your records must be maintained according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(14)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1), “General Provisions.” Where appropriate, the records may be maintained as electronic spreadsheets or as a database.
(ii) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), “General Provisions,” you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, corrective action, report, or record.
(iii) You must keep each record on-site for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, corrective action, report, or record according to § 63.10(b)(1), “General Provisions.” You may keep the records off-site for the remaining 3 years.
[72 FR 73207, Dec. 26, 2007, as amended at 85 FR 73921, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.11520
[Reserved]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11521
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by EPA or a delegated authority such as your state, local, or tribal agency. If the EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your state, local, or tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to your state, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a state, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the EPA Administrator and are not transferred to the state, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to state, local, or tribal agencies are specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g), of the General Provisions of this part.
(2) Approval of an alternative opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(h)(9), of the General Provisions of this part.
(3) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), of the General Provisions of this part. A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f), of the General Provisions of this part. A “major change to monitoring” under is defined in § 63.90.
(5) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), of the General Provisions of this part. A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
§ 63.11522
What definitions apply to this subpart?
The terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA; and in this section as follows:
Adequate emission capture methods
are hoods, enclosures, or any other duct intake devices with ductwork, dampers, manifolds, plenums, or fans designed to draw greater than 85 percent of the airborne dust generated from the process into the control device.
Capture system
means the collection of components used to capture gases and fumes released from one or more emissions points and then convey the captured gas stream to a control device or to the atmosphere. A capture system may include, but is not limited to, the following components as applicable to a given capture system design: duct intake devices, hoods, enclosures, ductwork, dampers, manifolds, plenums, and fans.
Cartridge collector
means a type of control device that uses perforated metal cartridges containing a pleated paper or non-woven fibrous filter media to remove PM from a gas stream by sieving and other mechanisms. Cartridge collectors can be designed with single use cartridges, which are removed and disposed after reaching capacity, or continuous use cartridges, which typically are cleaned by means of a pulse-jet mechanism.
Confined abrasive blasting enclosure
means an enclosure that includes a roof and at least two complete walls, with side curtains and ventilation as needed to insure that no air or PM exits the enclosure while dry abrasive blasting is performed. Apertures or slots may be present in the roof or walls to allow for mechanized transport of the blasted objects with overhead cranes, or cable and cord entry into the dry abrasive blasting chamber.
Control device
means equipment installed on a process vent or exhaust system that reduces the quantity of a pollutant that is emitted to the air.
Dry abrasive blasting
means cleaning, polishing, conditioning, removing or preparing a surface by propelling a stream of abrasive material with compressed air against the surface. Hydroblasting, wet abrasive blasting, or other abrasive blasting operations which employ liquids to reduce emissions are not dry abrasive blasting.
Dry grinding and dry polishing with machines
means grinding or polishing without the use of lubricating oils or fluids in fixed or stationary machines. Hand grinding, hand polishing, and bench top dry grinding and dry polishing are not included under this definition.
Fabric filter
means a type of control device used for collecting PM by filtering a process exhaust stream through a filter or filter media; a fabric filter is also known as a baghouse.
Facility maintenance
means operations performed as part of the routine repair or renovation of process equipment, machinery, control equipment, and structures that comprise the infrastructure of the affected facility and that are necessary for the facility to
function in its intended capacity. Facility maintenance also includes operations associated with the installation of new equipment or structures, and any processes as part of janitorial activities. Facility maintenance includes operations on stationary structures or their appurtenances at the site of installation, to portable buildings at the site of installation, to pavements, or to curbs. Facility maintenance also includes operations performed on mobile equipment, such as fork trucks, that are used in a manufacturing facility and which are maintained in that same facility. Facility maintenance does not include spray-applied coating of motor vehicles, mobile equipment, or items that routinely leave and return to the facility, such as delivery trucks, rental equipment, or containers used to transport, deliver, distribute, or dispense commercial products to customers, such as compressed gas canisters.
Filtration control device
means a control device that utilizes a filter to reduce the emissions of MFHAP and other PM.
Grinding
means a process performed on a workpiece to remove undesirable material from the surface or to remove burrs or sharp edges. Grinding is done using belts, disks, or wheels consisting of or covered with various abrasives.
Machining
means dry metal turning, milling, drilling, boring, tapping, planing, broaching, sawing, cutting, shaving, shearing, threading, reaming, shaping, slotting, hobbing, and chamfering with machines. Shearing operations cut materials into a desired shape and size, while forming operations bend or conform materials into specific shapes. Cutting and shearing operations include punching, piercing, blanking, cutoff, parting, shearing and trimming. Forming operations include bending, forming, extruding, drawing, rolling, spinning, coining, and forging the metal. Processes specifically excluded are hand-held devices and any process employing fluids for lubrication or cooling.
Material containing MFHAP
means a material containing one or more MFHAP. Any material that contains cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel in amounts greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by weight (as the metal), and contains manganese in amounts greater than or equal to 1.0 percent by weight (as the metal), as shown in formulation data provided by the manufacturer or supplier, such as the Material Safety Data Sheet for the material, is considered to be a material containing MFHAP.
Metal fabrication and finishing HAP (MFHAP)
means any compound of the following metals: Cadmium, chromium, lead, manganese, or nickel, or any of these metals in the elemental form, with the exception of lead.
Metal fabrication and finishing source categories
are limited to the nine metal fabrication and finishing source categories with the activities described in Table 1, “Description of Source Categories Affected by this Subpart.” Metal fabrication or finishing operations means dry abrasive blasting, machining, spray painting, or welding in any one of the nine metal fabrication and finishing area source categories listed in Table 1, “Description of Source Categories Affected by this Subpart.”
Military munitions
means all ammunition products and components produced or used by or for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) or for the U.S. Armed Services for national defense and security, including military munitions under the control of the DoD, the U.S. Coast Guard, the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA), U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), and National Guard personnel. The term military munitions includes: Confined gaseous, liquid, and solid propellants, explosives, pyrotechnics, chemical and riot control agents, smokes, and incendiaries used by DoD components, including bulk explosives and chemical warfare agents, chemical munitions, biological weapons, rockets, guided and ballistic missiles, bombs, warheads, small arms ammunition, grenades, mines, torpedoes, depth charges, cluster munitions and dispensers, demolition charges, nonnuclear components of nuclear weapons, wholly inert ammunition products, and all devices and components of any items listed in this definition.
Paint
means a material applied to a substrate for decorative, protective, or
functional purposes. Such materials include, but are not limited to, paints, coatings, sealants, liquid plastic coatings, caulks, inks, adhesives, and maskants. Decorative, protective, or functional materials that consist only of protective oils for metal, acids, bases, or any combination of these substances, or paper film or plastic film which may be pre-coated with an adhesive by the film manufacturer, are not considered paints for the purposes of this subpart.
Polishing with machines
means an operation which removes fine excess metal from a surface to prepare the surface for more refined finishing procedures prior to plating or other processes. Polishing may also be employed to remove burrs on castings or stampings. Polishing is performed using hard-faced wheels constructed of muslin, canvas, felt or leather, and typically employs natural or artificial abrasives. Polishing performed by hand without machines or in bench top operations are not considered polishing with machines for the purposes of this subpart.
Primarily engaged
means the manufacturing, fabricating, or forging of one or more products listed in one of the nine metal fabrication and finishing source category descriptions in Table 1, “Description of Source Categories Affected by this Subpart,” where this production represents at least 50 percent of the production at a facility, and where production quantities are established by the volume, linear foot, square foot, or other value suited to the specific industry. The period used to determine production should be the previous continuous 12 months of operation. Facilities must document and retain their rationale for the determination that their facility is not “primarily engaged” pursuant to § 63.10(b)(3) of the General Provisions.
Quality control activities
means operations that meet all of the following criteria:
(1) The activities are intended to detect and correct defects in the final product by selecting a limited number of samples from the operation, and comparing the samples against specific performance criteria.
(2) The activities do not include the production of an intermediate or final product for sale or exchange for commercial profit; for example, parts that are not sold and do not leave the facility.
(3) The activities are not a normal part of the operation;
(4) The activities do not involve fabrication of tools, equipment, machinery, and structures that comprise the infrastructure of the facility and that are necessary for the facility to function in its intended capacity; that is, the activities are not facility maintenance.
Responsible official
means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2.
Spray-applied painting
means application of paints using a hand-held device that creates an atomized mist of paint and deposits the paint on a substrate. For the purposes of this subpart, spray-applied painting does not include the following materials or activities:
(1) Paints applied from a hand-held device with a paint cup capacity that is less than 3.0 fluid ounces (89 cubic centimeters).
(2) Surface coating application using powder coating, hand-held, non-refillable aerosol containers, or non-atomizing application technology, including, but not limited to, paint brushes, rollers, hand wiping, flow coating, dip coating, electrodeposition coating, web coating, coil coating, touch-up markers, or marking pens.
(3) Painting operations that normally require the use of an airbrush or an extension on the spray gun to properly reach limited access spaces; the application of paints that contain fillers that adversely affect atomization with HVLP spray guns, and the application of paints that normally have a dried film thickness of less than 0.0013 centimeter (0.0005 in.).
(4) Thermal spray operations (also known as metallizing, flame spray, plasma arc spray, and electric arc spray, among other names) in which solid metallic or non-metallic material is heated to a molten or semi-molten state and propelled to the work piece or substrate by compressed air or other gas, where a bond is produced upon impact.
Spray booth or spray room
means an enclosure with four sides and a roof where spray paint is prevented from leaving the booth during spraying by the enclosure. The roof of the spray booth or spray room may contain narrow slots for connecting the parts and products to overhead cranes, or for cord or cable entry into the spray booth or spray room.
Tool or equipment repair
means equipment and devices used to repair or maintain process equipment or to prepare molds, dies, or other changeable elements of process equipment.
Totally enclosed and unvented
means enclosed so that no air enters or leaves during operation.
Totally enclosed and unvented dry abrasive blasting chamber
means a dry abrasive blasting enclosure which has no vents to the atmosphere, thus no emissions. A typical example of this sort of abrasive blasting enclosure is a small “glove box” enclosure, where the worker places their hands in openings or gloves that extend into the box and enable the worker to hold the objects as they are being blasted without allowing air and blast material to escape the box.
Vented dry abrasive blasting
means dry abrasive blasting where the blast material is moved by air flow from within the chamber to outside the chamber into the atmosphere or into a control device.
Welding
means a process which joins two metal parts by melting the parts at the joint and filling the space with molten metal.
Welding rod containing MFHAP
means a welding rod that contains cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel in amounts greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by weight (as the metal), or that contains manganese in amounts greater than or equal to 1.0 percent by weight (as the metal), as shown in formulation data provided by the manufacturer or supplier, such as the Material Safety Data Sheet for the welding rod.
§ 63.11523
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
The provisions in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, applicable to sources subject to § 63.11514(a) are specified in Table 2 of this subpart.
Pt. 63, Subpt. XXXXXX, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart XXXXXX of Part 63—Description of Source Categories Affected by This Subpart
Metal fabrication and finishing source category
Description
Electrical and Electronic Equipment Finishing Operations
Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing motors and generators; and electrical machinery, equipment, and supplies, not elsewhere classified. The electrical machinery equipment and supplies industry sector of this source category includes establishments primarily engaged in high energy particle acceleration systems and equipment, electronic simulators, appliance and extension cords, bells and chimes, insect traps, and other electrical equipment and supplies not elsewhere classified. The motors and generators sector of this source category includes establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing electric motors (except engine starting motors) and power generators; motor generator sets; railway motors and control equipment; and motors, generators and control equipment for gasoline, electric, and oil-electric buses and trucks.
Fabricated Metal Products
Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing fabricated metal products, such as fire or burglary resistive steel safes and vaults and similar fire or burglary resistive products; and collapsible tubes of thin flexible metal. Also, establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing powder metallurgy products, metal boxes; metal ladders; metal household articles, such as ice cream freezers and ironing boards; and other fabricated metal products not elsewhere classified.
Fabricated Plate Work (Boiler Shops)
Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing power marine boilers, pressure and nonpressure tanks, processing and storage vessels, heat exchangers, weldments and similar products.
Fabricated Structural Metal Manufacturing
Establishments primarily engaged in fabricating iron and steel or other metal for structural purposes, such as bridges, buildings, and sections for ships, boats, and barges.
Heating Equipment, except Electric
Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing heating equipment, except electric and warm air furnaces, including gas, oil, and stoker coal fired equipment for the automatic utilization of gaseous, liquid, and solid fuels. Products produced in this source category include low-pressure heating (steam or hot water) boilers, fireplace inserts, domestic (steam or hot water) furnaces, domestic gas burners, gas room heaters, gas infrared heating units, combination gas-oil burners, oil or gas swimming pool heaters, heating apparatus (except electric or warm air), kerosene space heaters, gas fireplace logs, domestic and industrial oil burners, radiators (except electric), galvanized iron nonferrous metal range boilers, room heaters (except electric), coke and gas burning salamanders, liquid or gas solar energy collectors, solar heaters, space heaters (except electric), mechanical (domestic and industrial) stokers, wood and coal-burning stoves, domestic unit heaters (except electric), and wall heaters (except electric).
Industrial Machinery and Equipment Finishing Operations
Establishments primarily engaged in construction machinery manufacturing; oil and gas field machinery manufacturing; and pumps and pumping equipment manufacturing. The construction machinery manufacturing industry sector of this source category includes establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing heavy machinery and equipment of types used primarily by the construction industries, such as bulldozers; concrete mixers; cranes, except industrial plant overhead and truck-type cranes; dredging machinery; pavers; and power shovels. Also establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing forestry equipment and certain specialized equipment, not elsewhere classified, similar to that used by the construction industries, such as elevating platforms, ship cranes, and capstans, aerial work platforms, and automobile wrecker hoists. The oil and gas field machinery manufacturing industry sector of this source category includes establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing machinery and equipment for use in oil and gas fields or for drilling water wells, including portable drilling rigs. The pumps and pumping equipment manufacturing sector of this source category includes establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing pumps and pumping equipment for general industrial, commercial, or household use, except fluid power pumps and motors. This category includes establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing domestic water and sump pumps.
Iron and Steel Forging
Establishments primarily engaged in the forging manufacturing process, where purchased iron and steel metal is pressed, pounded or squeezed under great pressure into high strength parts known as forgings. The forging process is different from the casting and foundry processes, as metal used to make forged parts is never melted and poured.
Primary Metals Products Manufacturing
Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing products such as fabricated wire products (except springs) made from purchased wire. These facilities also manufacture steel balls; nonferrous metal brads and nails; nonferrous metal spikes, staples, and tacks; and other primary metals products not elsewhere classified.
Valves and Pipe Fittings
Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing metal valves and pipe fittings; flanges; unions, with the exception of purchased pipes; and other valves and pipe fittings not elsewhere classified.
Pt. 63, Subpt. XXXXXX, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart XXXXXX of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Metal Fabrication or Finishing Area Sources
Instructions for Table 2
—As required in § 63.11523, “General Provisions Requirements,” you must meet each requirement in the following table that applies to you.
Citation
Subject
63.1
1
Applicability.
63.2
Definitions.
63.3
Units and abbreviations.
63.4
Prohibited activities.
63.5
Construction/reconstruction.
63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (g), (i), (j)
Compliance with standards and maintenance requirements.
63.9(a)-(d)
Notification requirements.
63.10(a), (b) except for (b)(2), (d)(1), (d)(4)
Recordkeeping and reporting.
63.12
State authority and delegations.
63.13
Addresses of State air pollution control agencies and EPA regional offices.
63.14
Incorporation by reference.
63.15
Availability of information and confidentiality.
63.16
Performance track provisions.
1
§ 63.11514(g), “Am I subject to this subpart?” exempts affected sources from the obligation to obtain title V operating permits.

# Subpart YYYYYY—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Ferroalloys Production Facilities

# Source:
73 FR 78643, Dec. 23, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11524
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a ferroalloys production facility that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions. A ferroalloys production facility manufactures silicon metal, ferrosilicon, ferrotitanium using the aluminum reduction process, ferrovanadium, ferromolybdenum, calcium silicon, silicomanganese zirconium, ferrochrome silicon, silvery iron, high-carbon ferrochrome, charge chrome, standard ferromanganese, silicomanganese, ferromanganese silicon, calcium carbide or other ferroalloy products using electrometallurgical operations including electric arc furnaces (EAFs) or other reaction vessels.
(b) The provisions of this subpart apply to each existing and new electrometallurgical operation affected source as defined in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
(1) An electrometallurgical operation affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the EAF or other reaction vessel on or before September 15, 2008.
(2) An electrometallurgical operation affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the EAF or other reaction vessel after September 15, 2008.
(c) This subpart does not apply to research or laboratory facilities as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).
(d) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
§ 63.11525
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart by June 22, 2009.
(b) If you start up a new affected source on or before December 23, 2008, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart by no later than December 23, 2008.
(c) If you start up a new affected source after December 23, 2008, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

# Standards, Monitoring, and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11526
What are the standards for new and existing ferroalloys production facilities?
(a) You must not discharge to the atmosphere visible emissions (VE) from the control device that exceed 5 percent of accumulated occurrences in a 60-minute observation period.
(b) You must not discharge to the atmosphere fugitive PM emissions from the furnace building containing the electrometallurgical operations that exhibit opacity greater than 20 percent (6-minute average), except for one 6-minute average per hour that does not exceed 60 percent.
§ 63.11527
What are the monitoring requirements for new and existing sources?
(a)
EAF equipped with fabric filters
—(1)
Visual monitoring.
You must conduct visual monitoring of the monovent or fabric filter outlet stack(s) for any VE according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i)
Daily visual monitoring.
Perform visual determination of fugitive emissions once per day, on each day the process is in operation, during operation of the process.
(ii)
Weekly visual monitoring.
If no visible fugitive emissions are detected in consecutive daily visual monitoring performed in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for 90 days
of operation of the process, you may decrease the frequency of visual monitoring to once per calendar week of time the process is in operation, during operation of the process. If visible fugitive emissions are detected during these inspections, you must resume daily visual monitoring of that operation during each day that the process is in operation, in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section until you satisfy the criteria of this section to resume conducting weekly visual monitoring.
(2) If the visual monitoring reveals the presence of any VE, you must conduct a Method 22 (appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60) test following the requirements of § 63.11528(b)(1) within 24 hours of determining the presence of any VE.
(3) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you may install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system for each fabric filter as an alternative to the monitoring requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If you own or operate a new affected source, you must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system for each fabric filter according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (a)(3)(vii) of this section. Such source is not subject to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.
(i) The system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting emissions of PM at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter (0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.
(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative PM loadings and the owner or operator shall continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using a strip chart recorder, data logger, or other means.
(iii) The system must be equipped with an alarm that will sound when an increase in relative PM loadings is detected over the alarm set point established in the operation and maintenance plan, and the alarm must be located such that it can be heard, seen, or otherwise detected by the appropriate plant personnel.
(iv) The initial adjustment of the system must, at minimum, consist of establishing the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, and establishing the alarm set points. If the system is equipped with an alarm delay time feature, you also must establish a maximum reasonable alarm delay time.
(v) Following the initial adjustment, do not adjust the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time, except that, once per quarter, you may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects including temperature and humidity.
(vi) For fabric filters that are discharged to the atmosphere through a stack, the bag leak detector sensor must be installed downstream of the fabric filter and upstream of any wet scrubber.
(vii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(4) When operating a bag leak detection system, if an alarm sounds, conduct visual monitoring of the monovent or fabric filter outlet stack(s) as required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section within 1 hour. If the visual monitoring reveals the presence of any VE, you must conduct a Method 22 test following the requirements of § 63.11528(b)(1) within 24 hours of determining the presence of any VE.
(5) You must prepare a site-specific monitoring plan for each bag leak detection system. You must operate and maintain each bag leak detection system according to the plan at all times. Each plan must address all of the items identified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (a)(5)(v)of this section.
(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system.
(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system including how the alarm set-point and alarm delay time will be established.
(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system including quality assurance procedures.
(iv) Maintenance of the bag leak detection system including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list.
(v) How the bag leak detection system output will be recorded and stored.
(b)
EAF equipped with wet scrubbers
—(1)
Visual monitoring.
You must conduct visual monitoring of the wet scrubber outlet stack(s) for any VE according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i)
Daily visual monitoring.
Perform visual determination of fugitive emissions once per day, on each day the process is in operation, during operation of the process.
(ii)
Weekly visual monitoring.
If no visible fugitive emissions are detected in consecutive daily visual monitoring performed in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section for 90 days of operation of the process, you may decrease the frequency of visual monitoring to once per calendar week of time the process is in operation, during operation of the process. If visible fugitive emissions are detected during these inspections, you must resume daily visual monitoring of that operation during each day that the process is in operation, in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section until you satisfy the criteria of this section to resume conducting weekly visual monitoring.
(2) If the visual monitoring reveals the presence of any VE, you must conduct a Method 22 (appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60) test following the requirements of § 63.11528(b)(1) within 24 hours of determining the presence of any VE.
(3) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you may install, operate and maintain a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) to measure and record the 3-hour average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate as an alternative to the monitoring requirements specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If you own or operate a new sealed EAF affected source, you must install, operate, and maintain a CPMS for each wet scrubber. Such source is not subject to the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(4) When operating a CPMS, if the 3-hour average pressure drop or scrubber water flow rate is below the minimum levels that indicate normal operation of the control device, conduct visual monitoring of the outlet stack(s) as required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section within 1 hour of determining that the 3-hour average parameter value is below the required minimum levels. Manufacturer's specifications for pressure drop and liquid flow rate will be used to determine normal operations. If the visual monitoring reveals the presence of any VE, you must conduct a Method 22 (appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60) test following the requirements of § 63.11528(b)(1) within 24 hours of determining the presence of any VE.
§ 63.11528
What are the performance test and compliance requirements for new and existing sources?
(a)
Initial compliance demonstration deadlines.
You must conduct an initial Method 22 (appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60) test following the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section of each existing electrometallurgical operation control device and an initial Method 9 observation following the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section from the furnace building due to electrometallurgical operations no later than 60 days after your applicable compliance date. For any new electrometallurgical operation control device, you must conduct an initial Method 22 test following the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section within 15 days of startup of the control device.
(b)
Visible emissions limit compliance demonstration.
(1) You must conduct a Method 22 (appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60) test to determine that VE from the control device do not exceed the emission standard specified in § 63.11526(a). For a fabric filter, conduct the test for at least 60 minutes at the fabric filter monovent or outlet stack(s), as applicable. For a wet scrubber, conduct the test for at least 60 minutes at the outlet stack(s).
(2) You must conduct a semiannual Method 22 test using the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Furnace building opacity.
(1) You must conduct an opacity test for fugitive emissions from the furnace building according to the procedures in § 63.6(h) and Method 9 (appendix A-4 of 40 CFR part 60). The test must be conducted for at least 60 minutes and shall
include tapping the furnace or reaction vessel. The observation must be focused on the part of the building where electrometallurgical operation fugitive emissions are most likely to be observed.
(2) Conduct subsequent Method 9 tests no less frequently than every 6 months and each time you make a process change likely to increase fugitive emissions.
(3) After the initial Method 9 performance test, as an alternative to the Method 9 performance test, you may monitor VE using Method 22 (appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60) for subsequent semi-annual compliance demonstrations. The Method 22 test is successful if no VE are observed for 90 percent of the readings over the furnace cycle (tap to tap) or 60 minutes, whichever is longer. If VE are observed greater than 10 percent of the time over the furnace cycle or 60 minutes, whichever is longer, then the facility must conduct another test as soon as possible, but no later than 15 calendar days after the Method 22 test using Method 9 (appendix A-4 of 40 CFR part 60) as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
§ 63.11529
What are the notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?
(a)
Initial Notification.
You must submit the Initial Notification required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than 120 days after December 23, 2008, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The Initial Notification must include the information specified in § 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (iv).
(b)
Notification of compliance status.
You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.9(h) of the General Provisions before the close of business on the 30th day following the completion of the initial compliance demonstration. This notification must include the following:
(1) The results of Method 22 (appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60) test for VE as required by § 63.11528(a);
(2) If you have installed a bag leak detection system, documentation that the system satisfies the design requirements specified in § 63.11527(a)(3) and that you have prepared a site-specific monitoring plan that meets the requirements specified in § 63.11527(a)(5);
(3) The results of the Method 9 (appendix A-4 of 40 CFR part 60) test for building opacity as required by § 63.11528(a).
(c)
Annual compliance certification.
If you own or operate an affected source, you must submit an annual certification of compliance according to paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section.
(1) The results of any daily or weekly visual monitoring events required by § 63.11527(a)(1) and (b)(1), alarm-based visual monitoring at sources equipped with bag leak detection systems as required by § 63.11527(a)(4), or readings outside of the operating range at sources using CPMS on wet scrubbers required by § 63.11527(b)(4).
(2) The results of the follow up Method 22 (appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60) tests that are required if VE are observed during the daily or weekly visual monitoring, alarm-based visual monitoring, or out-of-range operating readings as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(3) The results of the Method 22 (appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60) or Method 9 (appendix A-4 of 40 CFR part 60) tests required by § 63.11528(b) and (c), respectively.
(4) If you operate a bag leak detection system for a fabric filter or a CPMS for a wet scrubber, submit annual reports according to the requirements in § 63.10(e) and include summary information on the number, duration, and cause (including unknown cause, if applicable) for monitor downtime incidents (other than downtime associated with zero and span or other calibration checks, if applicable).
(d) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(2) of this section.
(1) As required in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), you must keep a copy of each notification that you submitted to comply with this subpart and all documentation supporting any Initial Notification, Notification of Compliance Status, and annual compliance certifications that you submitted.
(2) You must keep the records of all daily or weekly visual, Method 22 (appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60), and Method 9 (appendix A-4 of 40 CFR part 60) monitoring data required by § 63.11527 and the information identified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(v) of this section.
(i) The date, place, and time of the monitoring event;
(ii) Person conducting the monitoring;
(iii) Technique or method used;
(iv) Operating conditions during the activity; and
(v) Results, including the date, time, and duration of the period from the time the monitoring indicated a problem (e.g., VE) to the time that monitoring indicated proper operation.
(e) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1).
(f) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each recorded action.
(g) You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each recorded action according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.
[73 FR 78643, Dec. 23, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 73921, Nov. 19, 2020]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11530
What parts of the General Provisions apply to my facility?
Table 1 of this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in §§ 63.1 through 63.16 apply to you.
§ 63.11531
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by EPA or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If the EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the EPA Administrator and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Approval of an alternative nonopacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of an alternative opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(h)(9).
(3) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” under is defined in § 63.90.
(5) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
§ 63.11532
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in § 63.2, and in this section.
Bag leak detection system
means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring relative PM (i.e., dust) loadings in the exhaust of a fabric filter to detect bag leaks and other upset conditions. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, electrodynamic, light scattering, or other effect to monitor relative PM loadings continuously.
Capture system
means the collection of components used to capture gases and fumes released from one or more emissions points and then convey the captured gas stream to a control device or to the atmosphere. A capture system may include, but is not limited to, the following components as applicable to a given capture system design: Duct intake devices, hoods, enclosures, ductwork, dampers, manifolds, plenums, and fans.
Charging
means introducing materials to an EAF or other reaction vessel, which may consist of, but are not limited to, ores, slag, carbonaceous material, and/or limestone.
Control device
means the air pollution control equipment used to remove PM from the effluent gas stream generated by an EAF furnace or other reaction vessel.
Electric arc furnace
means any furnace wherein electrical energy is converted to heat energy by transmission of current between electrodes partially submerged in the furnace charge.
Electrometallurgical operations
means the use of electric and electrolytic processes to purify metals or reduce metallic compounds to metals.
Fugitive emissions
means any pollutant released to the atmosphere that is not discharged through a ventilation system that is specifically designed to capture pollutants at the source, convey them through ductwork, and exhausts them from a control device. Fugitive emissions include pollutants released to the atmosphere through windows, doors, vents, or other building openings. Fugitive emissions also include pollutants released to the atmosphere through other general building ventilation or exhaust systems not specifically designed to capture pollutants at the source.
Sealed EAF
means a furnace equipped with the cover with seals around the electrodes and outer edges of the cover to eliminate air being drawn in under the cover.
Tapping
means the removal of product from the EAF or other reaction vessel under normal operating conditions, such as removal of metal under normal pressure and movement by gravity down the spout into the ladle.
§§ 63.11533-63.11543
[Reserved]
Pt. 63, Subpt. YYYYYY, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart YYYYYY of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions
As required in § 63.11530, you must meet each requirement in the following table that applies to you.
Citation
Subject
63.1
1
Applicability.
63.2
Definitions.
63.3
Units and abbreviations.
63.4
Prohibited activities.
63.5
Construction/reconstruction.
63.6
Compliance with standards and maintenance.
63.8
Monitoring.
63.9
Notification.
63.10
Recordkeeping and reporting.
63.12
State authority and delegations.
63.13
Addresses of State air pollution control agencies and EPA regional offices.
63.14
Incorporation by reference.
63.15
Availability of information and confidentiality.
63.16
Performance track provisions.
1
§ 63.11524(d), “Am I subject to this subpart?” exempts affected sources from the obligation to obtain title V operating permits.

# Subpart ZZZZZZ—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Area Source Standards for Aluminum, Copper, and Other Nonferrous Foundries

# Source:
74 FR 30393, June 25, 2009, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11544
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate an aluminum foundry, copper foundry, or other nonferrous foundry as defined in § 63.11556, “What definitions apply to this subpart?” that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions as defined in § 63.2 and meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. Once you are subject to this subpart, you must remain subject to this subpart even if you subsequently do not meet the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Your aluminum foundry uses material containing aluminum foundry HAP, as defined in § 63.11556, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”; or
(2) Your copper foundry uses material containing copper foundry HAP, as defined in § 63.11556, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”; or
(3) Your other nonferrous foundry uses material containing other nonferrous foundry HAP, as defined in § 63.11556, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”.
(4) Your aluminum foundry, copper foundry, or other nonferrous foundry has an annual metal melt production (for existing affected sources) or an annual metal melt capacity (for new affected sources) of at least 600 tons per year (tpy) of aluminum, copper, and other nonferrous metals, including all associated alloys. You must determine the annual metal melt production and capacity for the time period as described in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section. The quantity of ferrous metals melted in iron or steel melting operations and the quantity of nonferrous metal melted in non-foundry melting operations are not included in determining the annual metal melt production for existing affected sources or the annual metal melt capacity for new affected sources.
(i) If you own or operate a melting operation at an aluminum, copper or other nonferrous foundry as of February 9, 2009, you must determine if you are subject to this rule based on your facility's annual metal melt production for calendar year 2010.
(ii) If you construct or reconstruct a melting operation at an aluminum, copper or other nonferrous foundry after February 9, 2009, you must determine if you are subject to this rule based on your facility's annual metal melt capacity at startup.
(iii) If your foundry with an existing melting operation increases production after calendar year 2010 such that the annual metal melt production equals or exceeds 600 tpy, you must submit a written notification of applicability to the Administrator within 30 days after the end of the calendar year and comply within 2 years after the date of the notification.
(iv) If your foundry with a new melting operation increases capacity after startup such that the annual metal melt capacity equals or exceeds 600 tpy, you must submit a written notification of applicability to the Administrator within 30 days after the capacity increase year and comply at the time of the capacity increase.
(b) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source located at an aluminum, copper or other nonferrous foundry that is an area source as defined by § 63.2. The affected source is the collection of all melting operations located at an aluminum, copper, or other nonferrous foundry.
(c) An affected source is an existing source if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before February 9, 2009.
(d) An affected source is a new source if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after February 9, 2009.
(e) This subpart does not apply to research or laboratory facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act.
(f) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.
[74 FR 30393, June 25, 2009, as amended at 74 FR 46495, Sept. 10, 2009]
§ 63.11545
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart no later than June 27, 2011.
(b) If you start up a new affected source on or before June 25, 2009, you must achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart no later than June 25, 2009.
(c) If you start up a new affected source after June 25, 2009, you must achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11550
What are my standards and management practices?
(a) If you own or operate new or existing affected sources at an aluminum
foundry, copper foundry, or other nonferrous foundry that is subject to this subpart, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Cover or enclose each melting furnace that is equipped with a cover or enclosure during the melting operation to the extent practicable (e.g., except when access is needed; including, but not limited to charging, alloy addition, and tapping).
(2) Purchase only metal scrap that has been depleted (to the extent practicable) of aluminum foundry HAP, copper foundry HAP, or other nonferrous foundry HAP (as applicable) in the materials charged to the melting furnace, except metal scrap that is purchased specifically for its HAP metal content for use in alloying or to meet specifications for the casting. This requirement does not apply to material that is not scrap (e.g., ingots, alloys, sows) or to materials that are not purchased (e.g., internal scrap, customer returns).
(3) Prepare and operate pursuant to a written management practices plan. The management practices plan must include the required management practices in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section and may include any other management practices that are implemented at the facility to minimize emissions from melting furnaces. You must inform your appropriate employees of the management practices that they must follow. You may use your standard operating procedures as the management practices plan provided the standard operating procedures include the required management practices in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(b) If you own or operate a new or existing affected source that is located at a large foundry as defined in § 63.11556, you must comply with the additional requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) For existing affected sources located at a large foundry, you must achieve a particulate matter (PM) control efficiency of at least 95.0 percent or emit no more than an outlet PM concentration limit of 0.034 grams per dry standard cubic meter (g/dscm) (0.015 grains per dry standard cubic feet (gr/dscf)).
(2) For new affected sources located at a large foundry, you must achieve a PM control efficiency of at least 99.0 percent or emit no more than an outlet PM concentration limit of at most 0.023 g/dscm (0.010 gr/dscf).
(c) If you own or operate an affected source at a small foundry that subsequently becomes a large foundry after the applicable compliance date, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) You must notify the Administrator within 30 days after the capacity increase or the production increase, whichever is appropriate;
(2) You must modify any applicable permit limits within 30 days after the capacity increase or the production increase to reflect the current production or capacity, if not done so prior to the increase;
(3) You must comply with the PM control requirements in paragraph (b) of this section no later than 2 years from the date of issuance of the permit for the capacity increase or production increase, or in the case of no permit issuance, the date of the increase in capacity or production, whichever occurs first.
(d) These standards apply at all times.
§ 63.11551
What are my initial compliance requirements?
(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, you must conduct a performance test for existing and new sources at a large copper or other nonferrous foundry that is subject to § 63.11550(b). You must conduct the test within 180 days of your compliance date and report the results in your Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h).
(b) If you own or operate an existing affected source at a large copper or other nonferrous foundry that is subject to § 63.11550(b), you are not required to conduct a performance test if a prior performance test was conducted within the past 5 years of the compliance date using the same methods specified in paragraph (c) of this section and you meet either of the following two conditions:
(1) No process changes have been made since the test; or
(2) You demonstrate to the satisfaction of the permitting authority that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.
(c) You must conduct each performance test according to the requirements in § 63.7 and the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must determine the concentration of PM (for the concentration standard) or the mass rate of PM in pounds per hour at the inlet and outlet of the control device (for the percent reduction standard) according to the following test methods:
(i) Method 1 or 1A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1) to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. If you are complying with the concentration provision in § 63.11550(b), sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere. If you are complying with the percent reduction provision in § 63.11550(b), sampling sites must be located at the inlet and outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.
(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1), or Method 2G (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2) to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.
(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2) to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses” (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.
(iv) Method 4 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3) to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.
(v) Method 5 or 5D (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3) or Method 17 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6) to determine the concentration of PM or mass rate of PM (front half filterable catch only). If you choose to comply with the percent reduction PM standard, you must determine the mass rate of PM at the inlet and outlet in pounds per hour and calculate the percent reduction in PM.
(2) Three valid test runs are needed to comprise a performance test. Each run must cover at least one production cycle (charging, melting, and tapping).
(3) For a source with a single control device exhausted through multiple stacks, you must ensure that three runs are performed by a representative sampling of the stacks satisfactory to the Administrator or his or her delegated representative. You must provide data or an adequate explanation why the stack(s) chosen for testing are representative.
§ 63.11552
What are my monitoring requirements?
(a) You must record the information specified in § 63.11553(c)(2) to document conformance with the management practices plan required in § 63.11550(a).
(b) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, if you own or operate an existing affected source at a large foundry, you must conduct visible emissions monitoring according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must conduct visual monitoring of the fabric filter discharge point(s) (outlets) for any VE according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must perform a visual determination of emissions once per day, on each day the process is in operation, during melting operations.
(ii) If no VE are detected in consecutive daily visual monitoring performed in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section for 30 consecutive days or more of operation of the process, you may decrease the frequency of visual monitoring to once per calendar week of time the process is in operation, during melting operations. If VE are detected during these inspections, you must resume daily visual monitoring of that operation during each day that the process is in operation, in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section until you satisfy the criteria of this section to resume conducting weekly visual monitoring.
(2) If the visual monitoring reveals the presence of any VE, you must initiate procedures to determine the cause of the emissions within 1 hour of the initial observation and alleviate
the cause of the emissions within 3 hours of initial observation by taking whatever corrective action(s) are necessary. You may take more than 3 hours to alleviate a specific condition that causes VE if you identify in the monitoring plan this specific condition as one that could lead to VE in advance, you adequately explain why it is not feasible to alleviate this condition within 3 hours of the time the VE occurs, and you demonstrate that the requested time will ensure alleviation of this condition as expeditiously as practicable.
(3) As an alternative to the monitoring requirements for an existing affected source in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, you may install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system for each fabric filter according to the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) If you own or operate a new affected source located at a large foundry subject to the PM requirements in § 63.11550(b)(2) that is equipped with a fabric filter, you must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system for each fabric filter according to paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Each bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.
(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 1 milligram per actual cubic meter (0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.
(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative PM loadings. You must continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using electronic or other means (e.g., using a strip chart recorder or a data logger).
(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound when the system detects an increase in relative particulate loading over the alarm set point established according to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, and the alarm must be located such that it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.
(iv) In the initial adjustment of the bag leak detection system, you must establish, at a minimum, the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, the alarm set points, and the alarm delay time.
(v) Following initial adjustment, you must not adjust the averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time without approval from the Administrator or delegated authority, except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(vi) of this section.
(vi) Once per quarter, you may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects, including temperature and humidity, according to the procedures identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(vii) You must install the bag leak detection sensor downstream of the fabric filter.
(viii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(2) You must prepare a site-specific monitoring plan for each bag leak detection system. You must operate and maintain each bag leak detection system according to the plan at all times. Each monitoring plan must describe the items in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system;
(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system, including how the alarm set-point and alarm delay time will be established;
(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system, including quality assurance procedures;
(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained, including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list;
(v) How the bag leak detection system output will be recorded and stored; and
(vi) Corrective action procedures as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, you must initiate procedures to determine the cause of
every alarm from a bag leak detection system within 1 hour of the alarm and alleviate the cause of the alarm within 3 hours of the alarm by taking whatever corrective action(s) are necessary. Corrective actions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Inspecting the fabric filter for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in PM emissions;
(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media;
(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device;
(iv) Sealing off a defective fabric filter compartment;
(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe, or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system; or
(4) You may take more than 3 hours to alleviate a specific condition that causes an alarm if you identify in the monitoring plan this specific condition as one that could lead to an alarm, adequately explain why it is not feasible to alleviate this condition within 3 hours of the time the alarm occurs, and demonstrate that the requested time will ensure alleviation of this condition as expeditiously as practicable.
(d) If you use a control device other than a fabric filter for new or existing affected sources subject to § 63.11550(b), you must submit a request to use an alternative monitoring procedure as required in § 63.8(f)(4).
§ 63.11553
What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?
(a) You must submit the Initial Notification required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than 120 calendar days after June 25, 2009 or within 120 days after the source becomes subject to the standard. The Initial Notification must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section and may be combined with the Notification of Compliance Status required in paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) The name and address of the owner or operator;
(2) The address (i.e., physical location) of the affected source; and
(3) An identification of the relevant standard, or other requirement, that is the basis of the notification and source's compliance date.
(b) You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.9(h) no later than 120 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11545 unless you must conduct a performance test. If you must conduct a performance test, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status within 60 days of completing the performance test. Your Notification of Compliance Status must indicate if you are a small or large foundry as defined in § 63.11556, the production amounts as the basis for the determination, and if you are a large foundry, whether you elect to comply with the control efficiency requirement or PM concentration limit in § 63.11550(b). In addition to the information required in § 63.9(h)(2) and § 63.11551, your notification must include the following certification(s) of compliance, as applicable, and signed by a responsible official:
(1) “This facility will operate in a manner that minimizes HAP emissions from the melting operations to the extent possible. This includes at a minimum that the owners and/or operators of the affected source will cover or enclose each melting furnace that is equipped with a cover or enclosure during melting operations to the extent practicable as required in 63.11550(a)(1).”
(2) “This facility agrees to purchase only metal scrap that has been depleted (to the extent practicable) of aluminum foundry HAP, copper foundry HAP, or other nonferrous foundries HAP (as applicable) in the materials charged to the melting furnace, except for metal scrap that is purchased specifically for its HAP metal content for use in alloying or to meet specifications for the casting as required by 63.11550(a)(2).”
(3) “This facility has prepared and will operate by a written management practices plan according to § 63.11550(a)(3).”
(4) If the owner or operator of an existing affected source at a large foundry is certifying compliance based on the results of a previous performance
test: “This facility complies with § 63.11550(b) based on a previous performance test in accordance with § 63.11551(b).”
(5) This certification of compliance is required by the owner or operator that installs bag leak detection systems: “This facility has installed a bag leak detection system in accordance with § 63.11552(b)(3) or (c), has prepared a bag leak detection system monitoring plan in accordance with § 63.11552(c), and will operate each bag leak detection system according to the plan.”
(c) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) As required in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), you must keep a copy of each notification that you submitted to comply with this subpart and all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted.
(2) You must keep records to document conformance with the management practices plan required by § 63.11550 as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) For melting furnaces equipped with a cover or enclosure, records must identify each melting furnace equipped with a cover or enclosure and document that the procedures in the management practices plan were followed during the monthly inspections. These records may be in the form of a checklist.
(ii) Records documenting that you purchased only metal scrap that has been depleted of HAP metals (to the extent practicable) charged to the melting furnace. If you purchase scrap metal specifically for the HAP metal content for use in alloying or to meet specifications for the casting, you must keep records to document that the HAP metal is included in the material specifications for the cast metal product.
(3) You must keep the records of all performance tests, inspections and monitoring data required by §§ 63.11551 and 63.11552, and the information identified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section for each required inspection or monitoring.
(i) The date, place, and time of the monitoring event;
(ii) Person conducting the monitoring;
(iii) Technique or method used;
(iv) Operating conditions during the activity;
(v) Results, including the date, time, and duration of the period from the time the monitoring indicated a problem (e.g., VE) to the time that monitoring indicated proper operation; and
(vi) Maintenance or corrective action taken (if applicable).
(4) If you own or operate a new or existing affected source at a small foundry that is not subject to § 63.11550(b), you must maintain records to document that your facility melts less than 6,000 tpy total of copper, other nonferrous metal, and all associated alloys (excluding aluminum) in each calendar year.
(5) If you use a bag leak detection system, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Records of the bag leak detection system output.
(ii) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection system settings.
(iii) The date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, and for each valid alarm, the time you initiated corrective action, the corrective action taken, and the date on which corrective action was completed.
(d) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1). As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each recorded action. For records of annual metal melt production, you must keep the records for 5 years from the end of the calendar year. You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each recorded action according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.
(e) If a deviation occurs during a semiannual reporting period, you must submit a compliance report to your permitting authority according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The first reporting period covers the period beginning on the compliance date specified in § 63.11545 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date comes first after your compliance date. Each subsequent reporting period covers the semiannual period from January 1 through June 30 or from July 1 through December 31. Your compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date comes first after the end of the semiannual reporting period.
(2) A compliance report must include the information in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Company name and address.
(ii) Statement by a responsible official, with the official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy and completeness of the content of the report.
(iii) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(iv) Identification of the affected source, the pollutant being monitored, applicable requirement, description of deviation, and corrective action taken.
[74 FR 30393, June 25, 2009, as amended at 74 FR 46495, Sept. 10, 2009]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11555
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
Table 1 to this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in §§ 63.1 through 63.16 apply to you.
§ 63.11556
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in § 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Aluminum foundry
means a facility that melts aluminum and pours molten aluminum into molds to manufacture aluminum castings (except die casting) that are complex shapes. For purposes of this subpart, this definition does not include primary or secondary metal producers that cast molten aluminum to produce simple shapes such as sows, ingots, bars, rods, or billets.
Aluminum foundry HAP
means any compound of the following metals: beryllium, cadmium, lead, manganese, or nickel, or any of these metals in the elemental form.
Annual copper and other nonferrous foundry metal melt capacity
means, for new affected sources, the lower of the copper and other nonferrous metal melting operation capacity, assuming 8,760 operating hours per year or, if applicable, the maximum permitted copper and other nonferrous metal melting operation production rate for the melting operation calculated on an annual basis. Unless otherwise specified in the permit, permitted copper and other nonferrous metal melting operation rates that are not specified on an annual basis must be annualized assuming 24 hours per day, 365 days per year of operation. If the permit limits the operating hours of the melting operation(s) or foundry, then the permitted operating hours are used to annualize the maximum permitted copper and other nonferrous metal melt production rate. The annual copper and other nonferrous metal melt capacity does not include the melt capacity for ferrous metal melted in iron or steel foundry melting operations that are co-located with copper or other nonferrous melting operations or the nonferrous metal melted in non-foundry melting operations.
Annual copper and other nonferrous foundry metal melt production
means, for existing affected sources, the quantity of copper and other nonferrous metal melted in melting operations at the foundry in a given calendar year. For the purposes of this subpart, metal melt production is determined on the basis of the quantity of metal charged to the melting operations. The annual copper and nonferrous metal melt production does not include the melt production of ferrous metal melted in iron or steel foundry melting operations that are co-located with copper and other nonferrous melting operations or the nonferrous metal melted in non-foundry melting operations.
Annual metal melt capacity,
for new affected sources, means the lower of the aluminum, copper, and other nonferrous metal melting operation capacity, assuming 8,760 operating hours per year or, if applicable, the maximum permitted aluminum, copper, and other nonferrous metal melting operation
production rate for the melting operation calculated on an annual basis. Unless otherwise specified in the permit, permitted aluminum, copper, and other nonferrous metal melting operation rates that are not specified on an annual basis must be annualized assuming 24 hours per day, 365 days per year of operation. If the permit limits the operating hours of the melting operation(s) or foundry, then the permitted operating hours are used to annualize the maximum permitted aluminum, copper, and other nonferrous metal melt production rate. The annual metal melt capacity does not include the melt capacity for ferrous metal melted in iron or steel foundry melting operations that are co-located with aluminum, copper, or other nonferrous melting operations or the nonferrous metal melted in non-foundry melting operations.
Annual metal melt production
means, for existing affected sources, the quantity of aluminum, copper, and other nonferrous metal melted in melting operations at the foundry in a given calendar year. For the purposes of this subpart, annual metal melt production is determined on the basis of the quantity of metal charged to the melting operations. The annual metal melt production does not include the melt production of ferrous metal melted in iron or steel foundry melting operations that are co-located with aluminum, copper, or other nonferrous melting operations or the nonferrous metal melted in non-foundry melting operations.
Bag leak detection system
means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring relative PM (
i.e.,
dust) loadings in the exhaust of a baghouse to detect bag leaks and other upset conditions. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effect to continuously monitor relative PM loadings.
Copper foundry
means a foundry that melts copper or copper-based alloys and pours molten copper or copper-based alloys into molds to manufacture copper or copper-based alloy castings (excluding die casting) that are complex shapes. For purposes of this subpart, this definition does not include primary or secondary metal producers that cast molten copper to produce simple shapes such as sows, ingots, billets, bars, anode copper, rods, or copper cake.
Copper foundry HAP
means any compound of any of the following metals: lead, manganese, or nickel, or any of these metals in the elemental form.
Deviation
means any instance where an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emissions limitation or work practice standard;
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or
(3) Fails to meet any emissions limitation in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart.
Die casting
means operations classified under the North American Industry Classification System codes 331521 (Aluminum Die-Casting Foundries) and 331522 (Nonferrous (except Aluminum) Die-Casting Foundries) and comprises establishments primarily engaged in introducing molten aluminum, copper, and other nonferrous metal, under high pressure, into molds or dies to make die-castings.
Large foundry
means, for an existing affected source, a copper or other nonferrous foundry with an annual metal melt production of copper, other nonferrous metals, and all associated alloys (excluding aluminum) of 6,000 tons or greater. For a new affected source,
large foundry
means a copper or other nonferrous foundry with an annual metal melt capacity of copper, other nonferrous metals, and all associated alloys (excluding aluminum) of 6,000 tons or greater.
Material containing aluminum foundry HAP
means a material containing one or more aluminum foundry HAP. Any material that contains beryllium, cadmium, lead, or nickel in amounts
greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by weight (as the metal), or contains manganese in amounts greater than or equal to 1.0 percent by weight (as the metal), as shown in formulation data provided by the manufacturer or supplier, such as the Material Safety Data Sheet for the material, is considered to be a material containing aluminum foundry HAP.
Material containing copper foundry HAP
means a material containing one or more copper foundry HAP. Any material that contains lead or nickel in amounts greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by weight (as the metal), or contains manganese in amounts greater than or equal to 1.0 percent by weight (as the metal), as shown in formulation data provided by the manufacturer or supplier, such as the Material Safety Data Sheet for the material, is considered to be a material containing copper foundry HAP.
Material containing other nonferrous foundry HAP
means a material containing one or more other nonferrous foundry HAP. Any material that contains chromium, lead, or nickel in amounts greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by weight (as the metal), as shown in formulation data provided by the manufacturer or supplier, such as the Material Safety Data Sheet for the material, is considered to be a material containing other nonferrous foundry HAP.
Melting operations
(the affected source) means the collection of furnaces (
e.g.,
induction, reverberatory, crucible, tower, dry hearth) used to melt metal ingot, alloyed ingot and/or metal scrap to produce molten metal that is poured into molds to make castings. Melting operations dedicated to melting ferrous metal at an iron and steel foundry are not included in this definition and are not part of the affected source.
Other nonferrous foundry
means a facility that melts nonferrous metals other than aluminum, copper, or copper-based alloys and pours the nonferrous metals into molds to manufacture nonferrous metal castings (excluding die casting) that are complex shapes. For purposes of this subpart, this definition does not include primary or secondary metal producers that cast molten nonferrous metals to produce simple shapes such as sows, ingots, bars, rods, or billets.
Other nonferrous foundry HAP
means any compound of the following metals: chromium, lead, and nickel, or any of these metals in the elemental form.
Small foundry
means, for an existing affected source, a copper or other nonferrous foundry with an annual metal melt production of copper, other nonferrous metals, and all associated alloys (excluding aluminum) of less than 6,000 tons. For a new affected source,
small foundry
means a copper or other nonferrous foundry with an annual metal melt capacity of copper, other nonferrous metals, and all associated alloys (excluding aluminum) of less than 6,000 tons.
§ 63.11557
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority, such as your State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or Tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that will not be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the applicability requirements in § 63.11544, the compliance date requirements in § 63.11545, and the applicable standards in § 63.11550.
(2) Approval of an alternative nonopacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g).
(3) Approval of a major change to a test method under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f).
A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90(a).
(4) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90(a).
(5) Approval of a waiver of recordkeeping or reporting requirements under § 63.10(f), or another major change to recordkeeping/reporting. A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90(a).
§ 63.11558
[Reserved]
Pt. 63, Subpt. ZZZZZZ, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart ZZZZZZ of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Aluminum, Copper, and Other Nonferrous Foundries Area Sources
As required in § 63.11555, “What General Provisions apply to this subpart?,” you must comply with each requirement in the following table that applies to you.
Citation
Subject
Applies to subpart ZZZZZZ?
Explanation
§ 63.1(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6), (a)(10)-(a)(12), (b)(1), (b)(3), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)
Applicability
Yes
§ 63.11544(f) exempts affected sources from the obligation to obtain a title V operating permit.
§ 63.1(a)(5), (a)(7)-(a)(9), (b)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d)
Reserved
No
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes
§ 63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Yes
§ 63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention
Yes
§ 63.5
Preconstruction Review and Notification Requirements
Yes
§ 63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (b)(7), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)(1), (e)(3)(i), (e)(3)(iii)-(e)(3)(ix), (f)(2), (f)(3), (g), (i), (j)
Compliance with Standards and Maintenance Requirements
Yes
§ 63.6(f)(1)
Compliance with Nonopacity Emission Standards
No
Subpart ZZZZZZ requires continuous compliance with all requirements in this subpart.
§ 63.6(h)(1), (h)(2), (h)(5)-(h)(9)
Compliance with Opacity and Visible Emission Limits
No
Subpart ZZZZZZ does not contain opacity or visible emission limits.
§ 63.6(b)(6), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(2), (e)(3)(ii), (h)(3), (h)(5)(iv)
Reserved
No
§ 63.7
Applicability and Performance Test Dates
Yes
§ 63.8(a)(1), (b)(1), (f)(1)-(5), (g)
Monitoring Requirements
Yes
§ 63.8(a)(2), (a)(4), (b)(2)-(3), (c), (d), (e), (f)(6), (g)
Continuous Monitoring Systems
No
Subpart ZZZZZZ does not require a flare or CPMS, COMS or CEMS.
§ 63.8(a)(3)
[Reserved]
No
§ 63.9(a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(i)-(iii), (b)(5), (c), (d), (e), (h)(1)-(h)(3), (h)(5), (h)(6), (j)
Notification Requirements
Yes
Subpart ZZZZZZ requires submission of Notification of Compliance Status within 120 days of compliance date unless a performance test is required.
§ 63.9(b)(2)(iv)-(v), (b)(4), (f), (g), (i)
No
§ 63.9(b)(3), (h)(4)
Reserved
No
§ 63.10(a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(i)-(v), (vii), (vii)(C), (viii), (ix), (b)(3), (d)(1)-(2), (d)(4), (d)(5), (f)
Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vi), (b)(2)(vii)(A)-(B), (c), (d)(3), (e)
No
Subpart ZZZZZZ does not require a CPMS, COMS, CEMS, or opacity or visible emissions limit.
§ 63.10(c)(2)-(c)(4), (c)(9)
Reserved
No
§ 63.11
Control Device Requirements
No
§ 63.12
State Authority and Delegations
Yes
§§ 63.13-63.16
Addresses, Incorporations by Reference, Availability of Information, Performance Track Provisions
Yes

# Subpart AAAAAAA—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Asphalt Processing and Asphalt Roofing Manufacturing

# Source:
74 FR 63260, Dec. 2, 2009, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11559
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate an asphalt processing operation and/or asphalt roofing manufacturing operation that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions, as defined in § 63.2.
(b) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source as defined in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
(1)
Asphalt processing.
The affected source for asphalt processing operations is the collection of all blowing stills, as defined in § 63.11566, at an asphalt processing operation.
(2)
Asphalt roofing manufacturing.
The affected source for asphalt roofing manufacturing operations is the collection of all asphalt coating equipment, as defined in § 63.11566, at an asphalt roofing manufacturing operation.
(c) This subpart does not apply to hot mix asphalt plant operations that are used in the paving of roads or hardstand, or operations where asphalt may be used in the fabrication of a built-up roof.
(d) An affected source is a new affected source if you commenced construction or reconstruction after July 9, 2009.
(e) An affected source is reconstructed if it meets the criteria as defined in § 63.2.
(f) An affected source is an existing source if it is not new or reconstructed.
(g) This subpart does not apply to research or laboratory facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act.
(h) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
§ 63.11560
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must be in compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart no later than December 2, 2010. As specified in § 63.11562(f), you must demonstrate initial compliance within 180 calendar days after December 2, 2010.
(b) If you own or operate a new affected source, you must be in compliance with the provisions in this subpart on or before December 2, 2009 or upon startup, whichever date is later. As specified in § 63.11562(g), you must demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emission limits no later than 180 calendar days after December 2, 2009 or within 180 calendar days after startup of the source, whichever is later.

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11561
What are my standards and management practices?
(a) For asphalt processing operations, you must meet the emission limits specified in Table 1 of this subpart.
(b) For asphalt roofing manufacturing lines, you must meet the applicable emission limits specified in Table 2 of this subpart.
(c) These standards apply at all times.
§ 63.11562
What are my initial compliance requirements?
(a) For asphalt processing operations, you must:
(1) Demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits specified in Table 1 of this subpart by:
(i) Conducting emission tests using the methods specified in Table 3 of this subpart; or
(ii) Using the results of a previously-conducted emission test as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) Establish the value or range of values of the operating parameters specified in Table 4 of this subpart:
(i) Using the operating parameter data recorded during the compliance emission tests; or
(ii) Using the operating parameter data recorded during a previously-conducted emission test.
(b) For asphalt roofing manufacturing lines that use a control device to comply with the emission limits in Table 2 of this subpart, you must:
(1) Demonstrate initial compliance by:
(i) Conducting emission tests using the methods specified in Table 3 of this subpart; or
(ii) Using the results of a previously-conducted emission test as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) Establish the value of the operating parameter specified in Table 4 of this subpart for thermal oxidizers:
(i) Using the operating parameter data recorded during the compliance emission tests; or
(ii) Using the operating parameter data recorded during a previously-conducted emission test.
(3) Establish the value or range of values of the operating parameters specified in Table 4 of this subpart for control devices other than thermal oxidizers:
(i) Using the operating parameter data recorded during the compliance emission tests;
(ii) Using the operating parameter data recorded during a previously-conducted emission test; or
(iii) Using manufacturer performance specifications.
(c) For asphalt roofing manufacturing lines that do not require a control device to comply with the emission limits in Table 2 of this subpart, you must:
(1) Demonstrate initial compliance by:
(i) Conducting emission tests using the methods specified in Table 3 of this subpart,
(ii) Using the results of a previously-conducted emission test as specified in paragraph (d) of this section; or
(iii) Using process knowledge and engineering calculations as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) Establish the value or range of values of the operating parameters specified in Table 4 of this subpart:
(i) Using the operating parameter data recorded during the compliance emission tests;
(ii) Using the operating parameter data recorded during a previously-conducted emission test; or
(iii) Using process knowledge and engineering calculations as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.
(d) If you are using a previously-conducted emission test to demonstrate compliance with the emission limitations in this subpart for existing sources, as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii), (b)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the following conditions must be met:
(1) The emission test was conducted within the last 5 years;
(2) No changes have been made to the process since the time of the emission test;
(3) The operating conditions and test methods used for the previous test conform to the requirements of this subpart; and
(4) The data used to establish the value or range of values of the operating parameters, as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), or (c)(2)(ii) of this section, were recorded during the emission test.
(e) If you are using process knowledge and engineering calculations to demonstrate initial compliance as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, you must prepare written documentation that contains the data and any assumptions used to calculate the process emission rate that demonstrate compliance with the emission limits specified in Table 2 of this subpart.
(f) If you are using process knowledge and engineering calculations to establish the value or range of values of operating parameters as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, you must prepare written documentation that contains the data and any assumptions used to show that the process parameters and corresponding parameter values correlate to the process emissions.
(g) For existing sources, you must demonstrate initial compliance no later than 180 calendar days after December 2, 2010.
(h) For new sources, you must demonstrate initial compliance no later than 180 calendar days after December 2, 2009 or within 180 calendar days after startup of the source, whichever is later.
(i) For emission tests conducted to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits specified in Tables 1 and 2 of this subpart, you must follow the requirements specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(4) of this section.
(1) You must conduct the tests while manufacturing the product that generates the greatest PAH and PM emissions to the control device inlet, or exiting the process if you are not using a control device to comply with the emissions limits specified in Tables 1 and 2 of this subpart.
(2) You must conduct a minimum of three separate test runs for each compliance test specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (b)(1)(i), and (c)(1)(i) of this section according to the requirements specified in § 63.7(e)(3). The sampling time and sample volume of each test run must be as follows:
(i) For asphalt processing operations, the sampling time and sample volume for each test run must be at least 90 minutes or the duration of the coating blow or non-coating blow, whichever is greater, and 2.25 dscm (79.4 dscf).
(ii) For asphalt coating operations, the sampling time and sample volume for each test run must be at least 120 minutes and 3.00 dscm (106 dscf).
(3) For asphalt processing operations, you must use the following equations to calculate the asphalt charging rate (P).
(i) P = (Vd)/(K′ Θ)
Where:
P = asphalt charging rate to blowing still, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
V = volume of asphalt charged, m
3
(ft
3
).
d = density of asphalt, kg/m
3
(lb/ft
3
).
K′ = conversion factor, 1000 kg/Mg (2000 lb/ton).
Θ = duration of test run, hr.
(ii)
d
=
K
1
−
K
2
T
i
Where:
d = Density of the asphalt, kg/m
3
(lb/ft
3
)
d = K
1
−K
2
T
i
K
1
= 1056.1 kg/m
3
(metric units)
= 66.6147 lb/ft
3
(English Units)
K
2
= 0.6176 kg/(m
3
°C) (metric units)
= 0.02149 lb/(ft
3
°F) (English Units)
T
i
= temperature at the start of the blow, °C (°F)
(4) You must use the following equation to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits specified in Table 2 of this subpart:
E = [(C)*(Q)/(P)*(K)]
Where:
E = emission rate of particulate matter, kg/Mg (lb/ton).
C = concentration of particulate matter, g/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q = volumetric flow rate of effluent gas, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
P = the average asphalt roofing production rate or asphalt charging rate over the duration of the test, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
K = conversion factor, 1000 g/kg [7000 (gr/lb)].
§ 63.11563
What are my monitoring requirements?
(a) You must maintain the operating parameters established under § 63.11562(a)(2), (b)(2), (b)(3), and (c)(2) as specified in Table 4 of this subpart.
(b) If you are using a control device to comply with the emission limits specified in Tables 1 and 2 of this subpart, you must develop and make available for inspection by the delegated authority, upon request, a site-specific monitoring plan for each monitoring system that addresses the following:
(1) Installation of the CPMS probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (
e.g.,
on or downstream of the last control device);
(2) Performance and equipment specifications for the probe or interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric
signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction system; and
(3) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (
e.g.,
calibrations).
(i) In your site-specific monitoring plan, you must also address the following:
(A) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(c)(1), (c)(3), (c)(4)(ii), (c)(7), and (c)(8);
(B) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d); and
(C) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).
(c) If you are using a control device to comply with the emission limits specified in Tables 1 and 2 of this subpart, you must install, operate, and maintain a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section.
(1) The CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period.
(2) To determine the 3-hour average, you must:
(i) Have a minimum of four successive cycles of operation to have a valid hour of data.
(ii) Have valid data from at least three of four equally spaced data values for that hour from a CPMS that is not out-of-control according to your site-specific monitoring plan.
(iii) Determine the 3-hour average of all recorded readings for each operating day, except as stated in paragraph (g) of this section. You must have at least two of the three hourly averages for that period using only hourly average values that are based on valid data (
i.e.,
not from out-of-control periods).
(3) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check of the CPMS.
(d) For each temperature monitoring device, you must meet the CPMS requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section and the following requirements:
(1) Locate the temperature sensor in a position that provides a representative temperature.
(2) For a noncryogenic temperature range, use a temperature sensor with a minimum measurement sensitivity of 2.8 °C or 1.0 percent of the temperature value, whichever is larger.
(3) If a chart recorder is used, the recorder sensitivity in the minor division must be at least 20 °F.
(4) Perform an accuracy check at least semiannually or following an operating parameter deviation:
(i) According to the procedures in the manufacturer's documentation; or
(ii) By comparing the sensor output to redundant sensor output; or
(iii) By comparing the sensor output to the output from a calibrated temperature measurement device; or
(iv) By comparing the sensor output to the output from a temperature simulator.
(5) Conduct accuracy checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating temperature range or install a new temperature sensor.
(6) At least quarterly or following an operating parameter deviation, perform visual inspections of components if redundant sensors are not used.
(e) For each pressure measurement device, you must meet the CPMS requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(6) of this section and the following requirements:
(1) Locate the pressure sensor(s) in, or as close as possible, to a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure.
(2) Use a gauge with a minimum measurement sensitivity of 0.12 kiloPascals or a transducer with a minimum measurement sensitivity of 5 percent of the pressure range.
(3) Check pressure tap for blockage daily. Perform an accuracy check at least quarterly or following an operating parameter deviation:
(i) According to the manufacturer's procedures; or
(ii) By comparing the sensor output to redundant sensor output.
(4) Conduct calibration checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating
pressure range or install a new pressure sensor.
(5) At least monthly or following an operating parameter deviation, perform a leak check of all components for integrity, all electrical connections for continuity, and all mechanical connections for leakage.
(6) At least quarterly or following an operating parameter deviation, perform visible inspections on all components if redundant sensors are not used.
(f) For each electrostatic precipitator (ESP) used to control emissions, you must install and operate a CPMS that meets the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section to provide representative measurements of the voltage supplied to the ESP.
(g) If you are not using a control device to comply with the emission limits specified in Tables 1 and 2 of this subpart, you must develop and make available for inspection by the delegated authority, upon request, a site-specific monitoring plan. The plan must specify the process parameters established during the initial compliance assessment and how they are being monitored and maintained to demonstrate continuous compliance.
(h) If you would like to use parameters or means other than those specified in Table 4 of this subpart to demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits specified in Tables 1 and 2 of this subpart, you must apply to the Administrator for approval of an alternative monitoring plan under § 63.8(f). The plan must specify how process parameters established during the initial compliance assessment will be monitored and maintained to demonstrate continuous compliance.
(i) At all times the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by this standard have been achieved. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
(j) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CPMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.
(k) You must operate and maintain the CPMS in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.
[74 FR 63260, Dec. 2, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 12989, Mar. 18, 2010]
§ 63.11564
What are my notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements?
(a) You must submit the notifications specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section.
(1) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.5(b), 63.7(b); 63.8(e) and (f); 63.9(b) through (e); and 63.9(g) and (h) that apply to you by the dates specified in those sections.
(2) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you have an existing affected source, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 calendar days after December 2, 2009, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.
(3) As specified in § 63.9(b)(4) and (5), if you have a new affected source, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 calendar days after you become subject to this subpart.
(4) You must submit a notification of intent to conduct a compliance test at least 60 calendar days before the compliance test is scheduled to begin, as required in § 63.7(b)(1).
(5) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status, including the compliance test results, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the completion of the compliance test according to § 63.10(d)(2).
(6) If you are using data from a previously-conducted emission test to serve as documentation of compliance
with the emission standards and operating limits of this subpart, you must submit the test data in lieu of the initial compliance test results with the Notification of Compliance Status required under paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(b) You must submit a compliance report as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section.
(1) If you are using a control device to comply with the emission limits, the compliance report must identify the controlled units (
e.g.,
blowing stills, saturators, coating mixers, coaters). If you are not using a control device to comply with the emission limits, the compliance report must identify the site-specific process operating parameters monitored to determine compliance with the emission limits.
(2) During periods for which there are no deviations from any emission limitations (emission limit or operating limit) that apply to you, the compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(v) of this section.
(i) Company name and address.
(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.
(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(iv) A statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations during the reporting period.
(v) If there were no periods during which the CPMS was out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS was out-of-control during the reporting period.
(3) For each deviation from an emission limitation (emission limit and operating limit), you must include the information in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (b)(3)(xii) of this section.
(i) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped.
(ii) The date and time that each CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.
(iii) The date, time and duration that each CPMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).
(iv) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.
(v) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.
(vi) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.
(vii) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.
(viii) An identification of each air pollutant that was monitored at the affected source.
(ix) A brief description of the process units.
(x) A brief description of the CPMS.
(xi) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.
(xii) A description of any changes in CPMS or controls since the last reporting period.
(4) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each report specified in paragraph (b) of this section according to the following dates:
(i) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.11560 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.11560.
(ii) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.11560.
(iii) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through
June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.
(iv) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.
(c) You must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(10) of this section.
(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).
(2) Copies of emission tests used to demonstrate compliance and performance evaluations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).
(3) Documentation that shows that the following conditions are true if you use a previously-conducted emission test to demonstrate initial compliance as specified in § 63.11562(a)(1)(ii), (b)(1)(ii), and (c)(1)(ii):
(i) The test was conducted within the last 5 years;
(ii) No changes have been made to the process since the time of the emission test;
(iii) The operating conditions and test methods used for the previous test conform to the requirements of this subpart; and
(iv) The data used to establish the value or range of values of the operating parameters, as specified in § 63.11562(a)(2)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), or (c)(2)(ii), were recorded during the emission test.
(4) Documentation that identifies the operating parameters and values specified in Table 4 of this subpart and that contains the data used to establish the parameter values as specified in § 63.11562(a)(2), (b)(2), (b)(3), or (c)(2).
(5) Copies of the written manufacturers performance specifications used to establish operating parameter values as specified in § 63.11562(b)(3)(iii).
(6) Documentation of the process knowledge and engineering calculations used to demonstrate initial compliance as specified in § 63.11562(e).
(7) Documentation of the process knowledge and engineering calculations used to establish the value or range of values of operating parameters as specified in § 63.11562(f).
(8) A copy of the site-specific monitoring plan required under § 63.11563(b) or (g).
(9) A copy of the approved alternative monitoring plan required under § 63.11563(h), if applicable.
(10) Records of the operating parameter values required in Table 4 of this subpart to show continuous compliance with each operating limit that applies to you.
[74 FR 63260, Dec. 2, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 12989, Mar. 18, 2010; 85 FR 73921, Nov. 19, 2020]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11565
What general provisions sections apply to this subpart?
You must comply with the requirements of the General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) according to Table 5 of this subpart.
§ 63.11566
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Asphalt coating equipment
means the saturators, coating mixers, and coaters used to apply asphalt to substrate to manufacture roofing products (
e.g.,
shingles, roll roofing).
Asphalt flux
means the organic residual material from distillation of crude oil that is generally used in asphalt roofing manufacturing and paving and non-paving asphalt products.
Asphalt processing operation
means any operation engaged in the preparation of asphalt flux at stand-alone asphalt processing facilities, petroleum refineries, and asphalt roofing facilities. Asphalt preparation, called “blowing,” is the oxidation of asphalt flux, achieved by bubbling air through the heated asphalt, to raise the softening point and to reduce penetration of the oxidized asphalt. An asphalt processing facility includes one or more asphalt flux blowing stills.
Asphalt roofing manufacturing operation
means the collection of equipment used to manufacture asphalt roofing products through a series of sequential process steps. The equipment configuration of an asphalt roofing
manufacturing process varies depending upon the type of substrate used (
i.e.,
organic or inorganic). For example, an asphalt roofing manufacturing line that uses organic substrate (
e.g.,
felt) typically would consist of a saturator (and wet looper), coating mixer, and coater (although the saturator could be bypassed if the line manufacturers multiple types of products). An asphalt roofing manufacturing line that uses inorganic (fiberglass mat) substrate typically would consist of a coating mixer and coater.
Blowing still
means the equipment in which air is blown through asphalt flux to change the softening point and penetration rate of the asphalt flux, creating oxidized asphalt.
Built-up roofing operations
means operations involved in the on-site (
e.g.,
at a commercial building) assembly of roofing system components (
e.g.,
asphalt, substrate, surface granules).
Coater
means the equipment used to apply amended (filled or modified) asphalt to the top and bottom of the substrate (typically fiberglass mat) used to manufacture shingles and rolled roofing products.
Coating mixer
means the equipment used to mix coating asphalt and a mineral stabilizer, prior to applying the stabilized coating asphalt to the substrate.
Hot-mix asphalt operation
means operations involved in mixing asphalt cement and aggregates to produce materials for paving roadways and hardstand (
e.g.,
vehicle parking lots, prepared surfaces for materiel storage).
Particulate matter (PM)
means, for the purposes of this subpart, includes any material determined gravimetrically using EPA Method 5A—Determination of Particulate Matter Emissions From the Asphalt Processing And Asphalt Roofing Industry (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3).
Responsible official
is defined in § 63.2.
Saturator
means the equipment used to impregnate a substrate (predominantly organic felt) with asphalt. Saturators are predominantly used for the manufacture of rolled-roofing products (
e.g.,
saturated felt). For the purposes of this subpart, the term saturator includes impregnation vat and wet looper.
Wet looper
means the series of rollers typically following the saturator used to provide additional absorption time for asphalt to penetrate the roofing substrate.
§ 63.11567
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by us, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA), or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the following authorities are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA:
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.11559, 63.11560, 63.11561, 63.11562, and 63.11563.
(2) Approval of major changes to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f) and as defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of major changes to monitoring under § 63.8(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of major changes to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
Pt. 63, Subpt. AAAAAAA, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart AAAAAAA of Part 63—Emission Limits for Asphalt Processing (Refining) Operations
For * * *
You must meet the following emission limits * * *
1. Blowing stills
a. Limit PAH emissions to 0.003 lb/ton of asphalt charged to the blowing stills;
or
b. Limit PM emissions to 1.2 lb/ton of asphalt charged to the blowing stills.
Pt. 63, Subpt. AAAAAAA, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart AAAAAAA of Part 63—Emission Limits for Asphalt Roofing Manufacturing (Coating) Operations
For * * *
1. Coater-only production lines
a. Limit PAH emissions to 0.0002 lb/ton of asphalt roofing product manufactured; or
b. Limit PM emissions to 0.06 lb/ton of asphalt roofing product manufactured.
2. Saturator-only production lines
a. Limit PAH emissions to 0.0007 lb/ton of asphalt roofing product manufactured; or
b. Limit PM emissions to 0.30 lb/ton of asphalt roofing product manufactured.
3. Combined saturator/coater production lines
a. Limit PAH emissions to 0.0009 lb/ton of asphalt roofing product manufactured; or
b. Limit PM emissions to 0.36 lb/ton of asphalt roofing product manufactured.
Pt. 63, Subpt. AAAAAAA, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart AAAAAAA of Part 63—Test Methods
For * * *
You must use * * *
1. Selecting the sampling locations
a
and the number of traverse points
EPA test method 1 or 1A in appendix A to part 60.
2. Determining the velocity and volumetric flow rate
EPA test method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G, as appropriate, in appendix A to part 60.
3. Determining the gas molecular weight used for flow rate determination
EPA test method 3, 3A, 3B, as appropriate, in appendix A to part 60.
4. Measuring the moisture content of the stack gas
EPA test method 4 in appendix A to part 60.
5. Measuring the PM emissions
EPA test method 5A in appendix A to part 60.
6. Measuring the PAH emissions
EPA test method 23.
a
The sampling locations must be located at the outlet of the process equipment (or control device, if applicable), prior to any releases to the atmosphere.
b
When using EPA Method 23, the toluene extraction step specified in section 3.1.2.1 of the method should be omitted.
[74 FR 63260, Dec. 2, 2009, as amended at 88 FR 16773, Mar. 20, 2023]
Pt. 63, Subpt. AAAAAAA, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart AAAAAAA of Part 63—Operating Limits
If you comply with the emission limits using * * *
You must establish an operating value for * * *
And maintain
a
* * *
1. A thermal oxidizer
Combustion zone temperature
The 3-hour average combustion zone temperature at or above the operating value established as specified in § 63.11562(a)(2) and (b)(2).
2. A high-efficiency air filter or fiber bed filter
a. Inlet gas temperature
b
, and
b. Pressure drop across device
b
The 3-hour average inlet gas temperature within the operating range established as specified in § 63.11562(a)(2) and (b)(3).
The 3-hour average pressure drop across the device within the approved operating range established as specified in § 63.11562(a)(2) and (b)(3).
3. An electrostatic precipitator (ESP)
Voltage
c
to the ESP
The 3-hour average ESP voltage
c
at or above the approved operating value established as specified in § 63.11562(a)(2) and (b)(3).
4. Process modifications (
i.e.
, a control device is not required)
Appropriate process monitoring parameters.
d
The monitoring parameters within the operating values established as specified in § 63.11562(c)(2).
a
The 3-hour averaging period applies at all times other than startup and shutdown, as defined in § 63.2. Within 24 hours of a startup event, or 24 hours prior to a shutdown event, you must normalize the emissions that occur during the startup or shutdown, when there is no production rate available to assess compliance with the lb/ton of product emission limits, with emissions that occur when the process is operational. The emissions that occur during the startup or shutdown event must be included with the process emissions when assessing compliance with the emission limits specified in Tables 1 and 2 of this subpart.
b
As an alternative to monitoring the inlet gas temperature and pressure drop, you can use a leak detection system that identifies when the filter media has been comprised.
c
As an alternative to monitoring the ESP voltage, you can monitor the ESP instrumentation (
e.g.
light, alarm) that indicates when the ESP must be cleaned and maintain a record of the instrumentation on an hourly basis. Failure to service the ESP within one hour of the indication is an exceedance of the applicable monitoring requirements specified in § 63.11563(a).
d
If you are not using a control device to comply with the emission limits specified in Table 2 of this subpart, the process parameters and corresponding parameter values that you select to demonstrate continuous compliance must correlate to the process emissions.
Pt. 63, Subpt. AAAAAAA, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart AAAAAAA of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart AAAAAAA
Citation
Subject
Applies to subpart AAAAAAA
§ 63.1
Applicability
Yes.
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes.
§ 63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Yes.
§ 63.4
Prohibited Activities
Yes.
§ 63.5
Construction/Reconstruction
Yes.
§ 63.6(a)-(d)
Compliance With Standards and Maintenance Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(i)
Operation and Maintenance Requirements
No.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(ii)
Operation and Maintenance Requirements
No.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(iii)
Operation and Maintenance Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.6(e)(2)
[Reserved]
§ 63.6(e)(3)
Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Plan
No. Subpart AAAAAAA does not require startup, shutdown, and malfunction plans.
§ 63.6(f)(1)
Compliance with Nonopacity Emission Standards
No. The emission limits apply at all times.
§ 63.6(f)(2)-(3)
Methods for Determining Compliance and Finding of Compliance
Yes.
§ 63.6(h)
Opacity/Visible Emission (VE) Standards
No. Subpart AAAAAAA does not contain opacity or VE standards.
§ 63.6(i)
Compliance Extension
Yes.
§ 63.6(j)
Presidential Compliance Exemption
Yes.
§ 63.7(a)-(d)
Performance Testing Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.7(e)(1)
Performance Testing Requirements
No. Subpart AAAAAAA specifies the conditions under which performance tests must be conducted.
§ 63.7(e)(2)-(4)
Conduct of Performance Tests and Data Reduction
Yes.
§ 63.7(f)-(h)
Use of Alternative Test Method; Data Analysis, Recordkeeping, and Reporting; and Waiver of Performance Tests
Yes.
§ 63.8(a)(1)
Applicability of Monitoring Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.8(a)(2)
Performance Specifications
No. Subpart AAAAAAA does not allow CEMS.
§ 63.8(a)(3)
[Reserved]
§ 63.8(a)(4)
Monitoring with Flares
Yes.
§ 63.8(b)(1)
Conduct of Monitoring
Yes.
§ 63.8(b)(2)-(3)
Multiple Effluents and Multiple Monitoring Systems
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1)
Monitoring System Operation and Maintenance
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(i)
CMS maintenance
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(ii)
Spare Parts for CMS Malfunction
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(iii)
Compliance with Operation and Maintenance Requirements
No. Subpart AAAAAAA does not require startup, shutdown, and malfunction plans.
§ 63.8(c)(2)-(3)
Monitoring System Installation
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(4)
CMS Requirements
No; § 63.11563 specifies the CMS requirements.
§ 63.8(c)(5)
COMS Minimum Procedures
No. Subpart AAAAAAA does not contain opacity or VE standards.
§ 63.8(c)(6)
CMS Requirements
No; § 63.11563 specifies the CMS requirements.
§ 63.8(c)(7)-(8)
CMS Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.8(d)
CMS Quality Control
No; § 63.11563 specifies the CMS requirements.
§ 63.8(e)-(f)
CMS Performance Evaluation
Yes.
§ 63.8(g)(1)-(4)
Data Reduction Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.8(g)(5)
Data to Exclude from Averaging
No. All monitoring data must be included when calculating averages.
§ 63.9
Notification Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.10(a)
Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements—Applicability
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(1)
General Recordkeeping Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(i)-(iii)
General Recordkeeping Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iv)-(v)
Records of Actions Taken During Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Plans
No. Subpart AAAAAAA does not require startup, shutdown, and malfunction plans.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vi)-(xiv)
General Recordkeeping Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.10(c)(1)-(14)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with Continuous Monitoring Systems
Yes.
§ 63.10(c)(15)
Additional Recordkeeping Requirements for Sources with Continuous Monitoring Systems
No. Subpart AAAAAAA does not require startup, shutdown, and malfunction plans.
§ 63.10(d)(1)-(4)
General Reporting Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.10(d)(5)
Periodic Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Reports
No. Subpart AAAAAAA does not require startup, shutdown, and malfunction plans.
§ 63.10(e)
Additional Reporting Requirements for Sources with Continuous Monitoring Systems
Yes.
§ 63.10(f)
Waiver of Recordkeeping or Reporting Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.11
Control Device and Work Practice Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.12
State Authority and Delegations
Yes.
§ 63.13
Addresses of State Air Pollution Control Agencies and EPA Regional Offices
Yes.
§ 63.14
Incorporations by Reference
Yes.
§ 63.15
Availability of Information and Confidentiality
Yes.
§ 63.16
Performance Track Provisions
No.

# Subpart BBBBBBB—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Chemical Preparations Industry

# Source:
74 FR 69208, Dec. 30, 2009, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11579
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you meet all of the following conditions:
(1) You own or operate a chemical preparations facility (as defined in § 63.11588, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”),
(2) The chemical preparations facility is a stationary area source of hazardous air pollutants (HAP) (as defined in § 63.2), and
(3) The chemical preparations facility has at least one chemical preparations operation in target HAP service (as defined in § 63.11588, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”).
(b) The affected source is all chemical preparations operations (as defined in § 63.11588, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”) located at a facility that meets the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction, as defined in § 63.2, of the affected source before August 5, 2009.
(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction, as defined in § 63.2, of the affected source on or after August 5, 2009.
(c) On and after December 30, 2009, if your chemical preparations operation becomes a major source, as defined in § 63.2, you must continue to meet the requirements of this subpart in addition to any maximum achievable control technology standards which may apply at that time.
(d) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act.
(e) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continuously comply with the provisions of this subpart.
(f) You are exempt from the requirements specified in this subpart if the chemical preparations operations at your facility are subject to the requirements specified in subpart VVVVVV or subpart CCCCCCC of this part.
§ 63.11580
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart no later than December 30, 2010.
(b) If you start up a new affected source on or before December 30, 2009, you must achieve compliance with this subpart no later than December 30, 2009.
(c) If you start up a new affected source after December 30, 2009, you must achieve compliance with this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11581
What are my standards?
You must meet one of the requirements in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section that apply to you. These standards apply at all times.
(a) You must meet one of the emission standards in Table 1 of this subpart and the management practices in § 63.11584(a) through (c) of this subpart, or
(b) You must demonstrate that the particulate matter concentration of each of the process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service within a chemical preparation operation will not exceed 0.03 gr/dscf and meet the management practices in § 63.11584(d).
§ 63.11582
What are my compliance requirements?
(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf particulate matter (PM) concentration requirements specified in Table 1 of this subpart as follows:
(1) Using the methods specified in Table 2 of this subpart, or
(2) For existing sources only, using the results of an emissions test conducted in the past 5 years, provided the test meets the following requirements.
(i) The test was conducted under conditions that represent normal operation.
(ii) The test was performed using the methods specified in Table 3 of this subpart.
(iii) The test was conducted with a minimum of three separate test runs, as specified in § 63.7(e)(3).
(b) If you choose to demonstrate compliance with the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration requirements in Table 1 of this subpart by conducting an emissions test, you must follow the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section and include the results in your Notification of Compliance Status Report (NOCSR) in accordance with § 63.11585(b)(3).
(1) You must conduct the tests under conditions that represent normal operation.
(2) You must perform the test using the methods specified in Table 3 of this subpart.
(3) You must conduct a minimum of three separate test runs for each performance test required in this section, as specified in § 63.7(e)(3).
(4) You must use the following equation to demonstrate compliance with the emission reduction requirements specified in Table 1 of this subpart:
RE = [1 − (Ci − Co)/Ci]*100
Where:
RE = PM removal efficiency, percent.
Ci = Concentration of PM at inlet of control device, gr/dscf.
Co = Concentration of PM at outlet of control device, gr/dscf.
(c) If you choose to demonstrate compliance with the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration requirements specified in Table 1 of this subpart by providing control device manufacturer's performance guarantee information, then you must include the following information in your NOCSR (in accordance with § 63.11585(b)(3)).
(1) Control device make, model, and installation date.
(2) Performance guarantee certificate provided by the control device manufacturer.
(3) If a filter is used to control PM, performance guarantee information for the fabric or fiber filters used in the control device.
(d) If you choose to demonstrate compliance with the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration requirements specified in Table 1 of this subpart by providing engineering calculations, then the calculations and supporting documentation must contain the items specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section. These calculations and supporting documentation must be included in your NOCSR (in accordance with § 63.11585(b)(3)).
(1) Calculations and supporting documentation, such as delivery receipts, production logs and raw material safety data sheets that quantify the amount of raw materials used in the manufacture of chemical preparations (as defined in § 63.11588) in the prior calendar year.
(2) Calculations and supporting documentation, such as sales receipts, production logs and product material safety data sheets (MSDS) for chemical preparations (as defined in § 63.11588) products that quantify the amount of products produced by the chemical preparations operations in the prior calendar year.
(3) Calculations and supporting documentation of raw material losses to the atmosphere from the chemical preparations operations. This quantity (Qi in the equations in paragraph (5) of this section) is the amount of target HAP-containing PM in the uncontrolled air emissions from the chemical preparations operation, and does not include quantified and documented losses to solid or liquid waste streams, or material that is recycled back into the chemical preparations operation.
(4) Calculation and supporting documentation of quantities of target HAP-containing PM captured by the vent collection system and PM control device for the calendar year prior to the compliance date (Qo in the equations in paragraph (5) of this section).
(5) Use one of the following calculation methods to demonstrate compliance with the requirements specified in Table 1 of this subpart:
(i) For emission reduction, use the results of the calculations from paragraphs (d)(3) and (d)(4) of this section in the following equation:
RE = [1 − (Qi − Qo)/Qi]*100
Where:
RE = Annual average PM removal efficiency, percent.
Qi = Annual amount of PM in uncontrolled emissions, pounds per year.
Qo = Annual amount of PM captured by control device, pounds per year.
(ii) For the 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration, use the results of calculations from paragraphs (d)(3) and (d)(4) of this section in the following equation:
PC = [Qi − Qo]*7000/DCFM*MPY
Where:
PC = Annual average PM concentration, grains per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf).
Qi = Annual amount of PM in uncontrolled emissions, pounds per year.
Qo = Annual amount of PM captured by control device, pounds per year. (Qo is equal to zero if the process vent stream is not routed to a control device.)
DCFM = Process vent stream flowrate, dscf per minute (dscfm).
MPY = Minutes per year equipment are in target HAP service.
(e) If you are certifying that the particulate matter concentration of each of the process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service within a chemical preparation operation will not exceed 0.03 gr/dscf, then you must:
(1) Include the following information in your NOCSR (in accordance with § 63.11585(b)(6)).
(i) A certification statement by the responsible official that certifies that the particulate matter concentration of each of the process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service within a chemical preparation operation will not exceed 0.03 gr/dscf. The statement shall contain that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the certification statement.
(ii) Engineering calculations and supporting documentation containing:
(A) The annual raw material losses to the atmosphere from paragraph (d)(3) of this section; and
(B) The calculation of the PM concentration of process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service from paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section, using zero for the parameter Qo since there is no control device, given in gr/dscf.
(2) For each subsequent calendar quarter (
i.e.
, three months), maintain the following records to ensure that your certification statement is valid on a continual basis:
(A) The quarterly raw material losses to the atmosphere from paragraph (d)(3) of this section; and
(B) The calculation of the PM concentration of process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service from paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section, but on a quarterly basis instead of an annual basis, given in gr/dscf. Use zero for the parameter Qo since there is no control device.
§ 63.11583
What are my monitoring requirements?
To demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions standard in
Table 1, you must use one of the monitoring methods described in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this section while equipment within a chemical preparation operation are in target HAP service:
(a) Operate a bag leak detection system with alarm that will alert operators of a leak in the control device filter material. If a bag leak detection system with alarm is used to demonstrate compliance, then the following steps must be performed:
(1) You must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain each bag leak detection system and alarm according to manufacturer's specifications, and as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) The bag leak detection system and alarm must be maintained and operated in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices at all times.
(b) Operate a control device parameter (such as pressure drop or water flow, as appropriate) monitor and alarm system that will alert operators that the control device is operating outside the upper or lower threshold or range established by the control device manufacturer that indicate proper operation of the control device to meet the emissions reduction or PM concentration requirements.
(1) You must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain each control device parameter monitor and alarm system according to manufacturer's specifications, and as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) The control device parameter monitor and alarm system must be maintained and operated in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices at all times.
(c) Operate a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) to monitor control device operation. If a CPMS is used to demonstrate compliance, then the following steps must be performed:
(1) Establish and maintain site-specific control device parameter values that indicate proper operation of the control device to meet the emissions reduction or PM concentration requirements.
(2) You must operate the continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) during all periods when the process equipment is in target HAP service and use all the data collected during these periods in assessing the operation of the process vent collection system and control device.
(d) You must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain each control device CPMS according to manufacturer's specifications, and as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section.
(1) The CPMS must be maintained and operated in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices at all times.
(2) The CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period.
(3) To determine the 24-hour rolling average for the monitored parameter(s), you must:
(i) Have data from at least three of four equally spaced data values for that hour from a CPMS, except as stated in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(ii) Determine each successive 24-hour rolling average from all recorded readings for each 24-hour period, except as stated in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(4) For averaging periods of monitoring data from production in target HAP service less than 24 hours, you must:
(i) Have valid data from at least three of four equally spaced data values for each hour from a CPMS that is not out-of-control according to your manufacturer's recommendations.
(ii) Determine the average from all recorded readings for the production period, except as stated in § 63.11583(c)(2).
(5) You must record the results of each calibration and validation check of the CPMS.
(e) For each pressure measurement device, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as applicable, and the following:
(1) Locate the pressure sensor(s) in, or as close as possible to, a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure.
(2) Use a gauge with a minimum measurement sensitivity of 0.12
kiloPascals or a transducer with a minimum measurement sensitivity of 5 percent of the pressure range.
(3) Check pressure tap for plugging daily. Perform an accuracy check at least quarterly or following an operating parameter deviation:
(i) According to the manufacturer's procedures; or
(ii) By comparing the sensor output to redundant sensor output.
(4) Conduct calibration checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range or install a new pressure sensor.
(5) At least monthly or following an operating parameter deviation, perform a leak check of all components for integrity, all electrical connections for continuity, and all mechanical connections for leakage, if redundant sensors are not used.
(6) You must record the results of the plugging, accuracy and calibration checks specified in paragraphs (e)(3) through (e)(5) of this section in accordance with § 63.11585.
(f) For each monitoring system required in this section, you must develop and make available for inspection by the delegated authority, upon request, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the following:
(1) Selection and justification of the monitored parameter that indicates proper operation of the control device to meet the emissions limitation, if the parameter measured is something other than pressure drop.
(2) Installation of the bag leak detector, parameter monitoring device, or CPMS at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of PM emissions (
e.g.,
on the last control device);
(3) Performance and equipment specifications for the parametric signal analyzer, alarm, and the data collection and reduction system, as appropriate; and
(4) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria according to the manufacturer (
e.g.,
calibrations).
(5) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations or the general requirements of § 63.8(c)(1) and (c)(3);
(6) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations; and
(7) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i) and the requirements of § 63.11585.
(g) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each bag leak detection system, control device parameter monitor and alarm system, or CPMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.
(h) You must operate and maintain each bag leak detection system, control device parameter monitor and alarm system, or CPMS in continuous operation, and collect parametric data at all times that emissions are routed to the monitored control device.
§ 63.11584
What are my initial and continuous compliance management practice requirements?
(a) For each new and existing affected source, you must demonstrate initial compliance by conducting the inspection activities in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and demonstrate ongoing compliance by conducting the inspection activities in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1) Initial vent collection system and particulate control device inspections. You must conduct an initial inspection of each vent collection system and particulate control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section. You must record the results of each inspection according to paragraph (b) of this section and perform corrective action where necessary. You must conduct each inspection no later than 180 days after your applicable compliance date for each control device which has been operated within 180 days following the compliance date. For a control device which has not been installed or operated within 180 days following the compliance date, you must conduct an initial inspection prior to startup of the control device.
(i) For each wet particulate control system, you must verify the presence of water flow to the control equipment.
You must also visually inspect the vent collection system ductwork and control equipment for leaks (as defined in § 63.11588, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”) and inspect the interior of the control equipment (if applicable) for structural integrity and the condition of the control system.
(ii) For each dry particulate control system, you must visually inspect the vent collection system ductwork and dry particulate control unit for leaks (as defined in § 63.11588, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”). You must also inspect the inside of each dry particulate control unit for structural integrity and condition.
(iii) An initial inspection of the internal components of a wet or dry particulate control system is not required if there is a record that an inspection has been performed within the past 12 months and any maintenance actions have been resolved.
(iv) An initial inspection of ductwork that is unsafe or difficult to inspect is not required.
(2) Ongoing vent collection system and particulate control device inspections. Following the initial inspections, you must perform periodic inspections of each vent collection system and PM control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section. You must record the results of each inspection according to paragraph (b) of this section and perform corrective action where necessary.
(i) You must inspect and maintain each wet control system according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the presence of water flow to the wet particulate control system.
(B) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the vent collection system ductwork and wet particulate control equipment for leaks (as defined in § 63.11588, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”).
(C) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the wet control system (if applicable) to determine the structural integrity and condition of the control equipment every 12 months.
(D) You are required to inspect ductwork that is unsafe or difficult to inspect only during periods when it is safe or physically possible to do so.
(ii) You must inspect and maintain each dry particulate control unit according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the vent collection system ductwork for leaks (as defined in § 63.11588, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”).
(B) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the dry particulate control unit for structural integrity and to determine the condition of the fabric filter (if applicable) every 12 months.
(C) You are required to inspect ductwork that is unsafe or difficult to inspect only during periods when it is safe or physically possible to do so.
(b) You must record the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section for each inspection activity.
(1) The date, place, and time;
(2) Person conducting the activity;
(3) Method of inspection;
(4) Operating conditions during the activity;
(5) Results; and
(6) Description of any correction actions taken.
(c) At all times the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by this standard have been achieved. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
(d) If you have provided certification that each process vent stream from
equipment in target HAP service will not contain a PM concentration greater than 0.03 gr/dscf, the management practice requirements are as follows:
(1) You must conduct an initial visual inspection of the vent collection system ductwork for leaks (as defined in § 63.11588, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”).
(2) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the vent collection system ductwork for leaks (as defined in § 63.11588, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”).
(3) You are required to inspect ductwork that is unsafe or difficult to inspect only during periods when it is safe or physically possible to do so.
(4) You must record the information specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section for each inspection.
(i) The date, place, and time;
(ii) Person conducting the activity;
(iii) Results; and
(iv) Description of any correction actions taken.
§ 63.11585
What are my notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements?
(a) What General Provision notification, recordkeeping and reporting requirements must I meet? You must meet the requirements of 40 CFR part 63 subpart A according to Table 6.
(b) What notifications must I submit and when?
(1)
Initial Notification of Applicability.
If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must submit an initial notification of applicability as required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than April 29, 2010, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. If you own or operate a new affected source, you must submit an initial notification of applicability required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than 120 days after initial start-up of operation, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, or April 29, 2010, whichever is later. The initial notification of applicability must include the information specified in §§ 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (iii).
(2) Notification of Intent to conduct a Performance Test. If you elect to conduct a performance test, you must submit a notification of intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin, as required in § 63.7(b)(1).
(3) Notification of Compliance Status Report (NOCSR). You must submit a NOCSR according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). You must submit the NOCSR, including the performance test results, if applicable, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11580 or completion of the performance test, whichever is sooner. The NOCSR must include the information in § 63.9(h)(2)(i)(A) through (G) necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission standard as of the applicable compliance date.
(4) If you have an existing source and are using data from a previously conducted performance test to serve as documentation of compliance with the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration requirements of this subpart, you must submit the test data in lieu of the initial performance test results with the NOCSR required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(5) You must provide the results of the initial management practices required by § 63.11584(a)(1) and (d)(1).
(6) If you are providing certification that the particulate matter concentration of each of the process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service within a chemical preparation operation will not exceed 0.03 gr/dscf, you must submit this certification in the NOCSR required in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. You must submit the certification statement, including the supporting calculations or performance test results, if applicable. The certification statement and supporting documentation must include the information in § 63.11582(e)(1) necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission standard as of the compliance date.
(c) What reports must I submit and when?
(1) You must submit compliance reports as specified in Table 5 of this subpart that applies to you.
(2) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each compliance report
specified in Table 5 of this subpart according to the following dates:
(i) If deviations occur, then:
(A) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.11580 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.11580 (
i.e.,
December 31 for a source that is existing with a compliance date of December 30, 2010).
(B) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.11580 (
i.e.,
January 31 for a source that is existing with a compliance date of December 30, 2010).
(C) Each subsequent compliance report for a period in which deviations occur must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.
(D) Each subsequent compliance report for a period in which deviations occur must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.
(ii) If no deviations occur, then:
(A) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.11580 and ending on December 31 following the end of the first calendar year after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.11580.
(B) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than January 31 following the end of the first calendar year after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.11580.
(C) Each subsequent compliance report for a period in which deviations occur must cover the annual reporting period from January 1 through December 31.
(D) Each subsequent compliance report for a period in which no deviations occur must be postmarked or delivered no later than January 31 immediately following the previous calendar year.
(3) The compliance report must contain the following information:
(i) Company name and address.
(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.
(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(iv) If there are no deviations from the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration requirements as specified in Table 1, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration requirements during the reporting period.
(v) If there were no periods during which the CPMS (if a CPMS is used to demonstrate compliance) was out-of-control as defined by the manufacturer's recommendations, a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS was out-of-control during the reporting period.
(vi) A description of any changes in monitoring systems or CPMS, processes (including changes that establish the basis for certification that the PM concentration from process vents will not exceed 0.03 gr/dscf or the addition of new processes), or controls since the last reporting period or for the first compliance report, since the notification of compliance status report.
(4) For each deviation, as applicable and as defined in § 63.11588, you must include the information in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (c)(3)(iii) of this section, and the information in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (4)(ix) of this section that apply to you.
(i) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped.
(ii) The date and time that each bag leak detector, parameter monitor, or CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.
(iii) If a CPMS is used, the date, time and duration that each CPMS was out-of-control.
(iv) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting
period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.
(v) A list of reasons for the deviations during the reporting period.
(vi) If a CPMS is used, a summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.
(vii) A brief description of the process units.
(viii) A brief description of the bag leak detector, parameter monitor, or CPMS.
(ix) If a CPMS is used, the date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.
(5) If acceptable to both the Administrator and you, you may submit reports and notifications electronically.
(d) What records must I maintain?
(1) You must maintain the following records:
(i) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification of Applicability or NOCSR that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).
(ii) Records identifying periods when the chemical preparations operation is in target HAP service using:
(A) Production records showing the dates and times the chemical preparations operation is processing target HAP-containing materials; and
(B) Material safety data sheets (MSDS) of target HAP-containing materials being processed.
(iii) Records of performance tests and performance evaluations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).
(iv) Records of CPMS (if a CPMS is used to demonstrate compliance) calibration checks and adjustments and maintenance performed on CPMS as required by § 63.10(b)(2)(x) and (xi).
(v) Records of CPMS as required by § 63.10(c) and § 63.11583(d)(5).
(vi) Records of all inspections as required by § 63.11584(b) and pressure measurement device checks (if applicable) as required by § 63.11583(e)(6).
(vii) Records of the site-specific monitoring plan developed according to § 63.11583(f).
(viii) Records of particulate control device manufacturing specifications and recommendations.
(2) You must maintain the records specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section in accordance with paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(iii) of this section.
(i) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1).
(ii) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each recorded action.
(iii) You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each recorded action according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.
(3) If you are providing certification that the particulate matter concentration of each of the process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service within a chemical preparation operation will not exceed 0.03 gr/dscf, you must maintain the following records according to paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(iii) of this section:
(i) Records of the initial certification statement and supporting documentation specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(ii) Records of ductwork inspections specified in § 63.11584(d)(4).
(iii) Records of the quarterly raw material losses to the atmosphere and process vent stream PM concentration calculations specified in § 63.11582(e)(2).
[74 FR 69208, Dec. 30, 2009, as amended at 85 FR 73921, Nov. 19, 2020]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11586
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency (the delegated authority), in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You
should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart has been delegated.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the following authorities are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA:
(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.11579, 63.11580, 63.11581, 63.11582, 63.11583, and 63.11584.
(2) Approval of major changes to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f) and as defined in § 63.90.
(3) Approval of major changes to monitoring under § 63.8(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of major changes to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f) and as defined in § 63.90.
§ 63.11587
What General Provisions sections apply to this subpart?
You must comply with the requirements of the General Provisions (40 CFR part 63, subpart A) according to Table 6 of this subpart.
§ 63.11588
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Chemical preparation
means a target HAP-containing product, or intermediate used in the manufacture of other products, manufactured in a process operation described by the NAICS code 325998 if the operation manufactures target HAP-containing products or intermediates other than indelible ink, India ink, writing ink, and stamp pad ink. Indelible ink, India ink, writing ink, and stamp pad ink manufacturing operations are subject to regulation by the paints and allied products area source rule (40 CFR part 63, subpart CCCCCCC).
Chemical preparations facility
means any facility-wide collection of chemical preparation operations.
Chemical preparations operation
means the collection of mixing, blending, milling, and extruding equipment used to manufacture chemical preparations. A chemical preparation operation may include all, or only some, of the equipment listed above, depending on the chemical preparation being manufactured. Mixing and blending equipment may be used to process either wet or dry materials, or a combination of wet and dry materials. Milling equipment includes, but is not limited to, various types of rolling mills, rotary mills, and grinders. Extruding equipment, for the purposes of this subpart, includes direct and indirect extruders, spray driers, and prilling towers.
Deviation
means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or management practice established by this subpart;
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement a requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or
(3) Fails to meet any emissions limit.
In target HAP service
means that equipment in the chemical preparation operation either contains, contacts, or is processing target HAP-containing materials.
Leak
means a break in the integrity of the vent collection or control device system (
i.e.,
in the duct work, piping,
etc.
) such that visual particulate emissions, liquids or residue form outside the vent collection system or control device.
Process vent stream
means a gas stream from any equipment in target HAP service at the point where that gas stream is discharged from a vent collection system to the atmosphere, or inlet of a control device, if any.
Research and development equipment
means any equipment whose primary purpose is to conduct research and development to develop new processes and products, where such equipment is operated under the close supervision of technically trained personnel and is not engaged in the manufacture of products for commercial sale in commerce, except in a
de minimis
manner.
Responsible official
means one of the following:
(1) For a corporation: A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or
decision-making functions for the corporation, or a duly authorized representative of such person if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of one or more chemical preparations facilities;
(2) For a partnership: A general partner;
(3) For a sole proprietorship: The owner; or
(4) For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency: Either a principal executive officer or ranking official.
Target HAP
means metal compounds for chromium, lead, manganese, and nickel.
Target HAP-containing
means raw materials, intermediates, or products that contain one or more target HAP. Any material that contains compounds of chromium (VI), lead, or nickel in amounts greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by weight (as the metal), or manganese or chromium (III) compounds in amounts greater than or equal to 1.0 percent by weight (as the metal) is considered to be target HAP-containing. Target HAP content is shown in the formulation data provided by the manufacturer or supplier, such as the Material Safety Data Sheet for the material.
Unsafe or difficult to inspect
means the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspection personnel more than two meters above a support surface or it is not accessible at anytime in a safe manner.
Vent collection system
means hoods, enclosures, ductwork and fans utilized to remove particulate emissions from chemical preparations operations work areas.
Pt. 63, Subpt. BBBBBBB, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart BBBBBBB of Part 63—Emission Reduction and PM Concentration Requirements
For each * * *
You must * * *
Using * * *
1. Process Vent Stream from equipment in target HAP service
Route the process vent stream to a PM control device with:
a. A PM percent reduction efficiency of 95 percent (98 percent for new sources), or
b. An outlet concentration of 0.03 gr/dscf or less
Vent collection system and PM control device, such as a wet scrubber or fabric filter, that are maintained and operated per manufacturer's recommendations.
Pt. 63, Subpt. BBBBBBB, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart BBBBBBB of Part 63—Initial Compliance Demonstration Methods With the Emission Reduction and PM Concentration Requirements
If you are demonstrating compliance with the * * *
You must demonstrate initial compliance by one of the following methods * * *
1. Requirement to route all process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service to a PM control device with a PM percent reduction efficiency of 95 percent (98 percent for new sources) or an outlet concentration of 0.03 gr/dscf or less.
a. Perform a PM emissions test using the methods listed in Table 3 to this subpart; or
b. Provide performance guarantee information from the control device manufacturer that certifies the device is capable of reducing PM concentrations by 95 percent (98 percent for new sources) or achieves an outlet concentration of 0.03 gr/dscf or less; or
c. Provide engineering calculations, such as mass balance and flow rate calculations, that demonstrate that the control device is capable of reducing PM concentration from the chemical preparations operation process vent streams by 95 percent (98 percent for new sources) or achieving an outlet concentration of 0.03 gr/dscf or less.
2. Certification that all process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service will not contain a PM concentration greater than 0.03 gr/dscf
a. Perform a PM emissions test using the methods listed in Table 3 to this subpart; or
b. Provide engineering calculations, such as mass balance and flow rate calculations, that demonstrate that the PM concentration from the chemical preparations operation process vent streams will not be greater than 0.03 gr/dscf.
Pt. 63, Subpt. BBBBBBB, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart BBBBBBB of Part 63—Test Methods
For * * *
You must use * * *
1. Selecting the sampling locations
a
and the number of traverse points
EPA test method 1 or 1A in appendix A to part 60.
2. Determining the velocity and volumetric flow rate
EPA test method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G, as appropriate, in appendix A to part 60.
3. Determining the gas molecular weight used for flow rate determination
EPA test method 3, 3A, 3B, as appropriate, in appendix A to part 60.
4. Measuring the moisture content of the stack gas
EPA test method 4 in appendix A to part 60.
5. Measuring the PM emissions
EPA test method 5 in appendix A to part 60.
a
The sampling locations must be located at the outlet of the process equipment (or control device, if applicable), prior to any releases to the atmosphere.
Pt. 63, Subpt. BBBBBBB, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart BBBBBBB of Part 63—Continuous Compliance Demonstration Methods With the Emission Reduction and PM Concentration Requirements
If you are demonstrating compliance with the * * *
You must demonstrate continuous compliance by * * *
1. Requirement to route all process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service to a PM control device with a PM percent reduction efficiency of 95 percent (98 percent for new sources) or an outlet concentration of 0.03 gr/dscf or less
Using one of the following monitoring methods:
a. A bag leak detector and alarm system, that notifies operators when a leak in the filter media is detected.
b. A control device parameter monitor and alarm system, that notifies operators when the control device is operating outside of the upper or lower thresholds established by the control device manufacturer. Monitored parameters may include electricity supply to vent collection system fans, pressure drop across the control device, or scrubber liquor flow to the control device, as appropriate to the particulate matter control device being used.
c. A CPMS, and maintaining records of data verifying that the vent collection system and control device were operated within the range of parameters established to comply with the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration requirements (
i.e.,
according to manufacturer's recommendations or at the conditions used during the most recent performance test) while the chemical preparations operation was in target HAP service. The control device monitoring data are averaged over a 24-hour period or an overall average per batch, whichever is less, while the chemical preparations operation is in target HAP service. Monitored parameters may include electricity supply to vent collection system fans, pressure drop across the control device, or scrubber liquor flow to the control device, as appropriate to the particulate matter control device being used.
2. Certification that all process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service will not contain a PM concentration greater than 0.03 gr/dscf
a. Conducting monthly visual inspections of the vent collection system ductwork for leaks.
Pt. 63, Subpt. BBBBBBB, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart BBBBBBB of Part 63—Reporting Requirements
If you are demonstrating compliance with the * * *
You must submit a compliance report as follows * * *
1. Requirement to route all process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service to a PM control device with a PM percent reduction efficiency of 95 percent (98 percent for new sources) or an outlet concentration of 0.03 gr/dscf or less
a. An initial notice of compliance status report (NOCSR) as specified in § 63.11585(b)(3), and then as follows in (b) or (c) as applicable to you:
b. If there were no deviations during the reporting period, you must submit an annual report containing:
1. A statement that there were no deviations from the requirement to route all process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service to a PM control device that achieves a PM percent reduction efficiency of 95 percent (98 percent for new sources) or an outlet concentration of 0.03 gr/dscf or less during the reporting period.
2. If there were no periods during which the process vent collection system and control device was not operating normally (
i.e.,
according to manufacturer's recommendations or at the conditions used during the most recent performance test), a statement that the vent collection system and control device were operated normally at all times during the reporting period.
c. If you have a deviation from the requirement to route all process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service to a PM control device that achieves a PM percent reduction efficiency of 95 percent (98 percent for new sources) or to an outlet concentration of 0.03 gr/dscf or less, or periods where the vent collection system or control device were not operated normally, then you must submit a semi-annual report for that reporting period. The report must contain the information specified in § 63.11585(c).
2. Certification that all process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service will not contain a PM concentration greater than 0.03 gr/dscf
a. An initial NOCSR as specified in § 63.11585(b)(3) that contains the following items:
1. A statement certifying that all process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service will not contain a PM concentration greater than 0.03 gr/dscf. The statement shall contain that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the certification statement.
2. Test results or engineering calculations that demonstrate process vent streams covered by the certification will not contain a PM concentration greater than 0.03 gr/dscf.
Pt. 63, Subpt. BBBBBBB, Table 6

# Table 6 to Subpart BBBBBBB of Part 63—General Provisions
Citation
Subject
Applies to subpart BBBBBBB
§ 63.1
Applicability
Yes.
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes.
§ 63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Yes.
§ 63.4
Prohibited Activities
Yes.
§ 63.5
Construction/Reconstruction
Yes.
§ 63.6(a)-(d)
Compliance with Standards and Maintenance Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(i)-(ii)
Operation and Maintenance Requirements
No.
§ 63.6(e)(1)(iii)
Operation and Maintenance Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.6(e)(2)
[Reserved]
§ 63.6(e)(3)
Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Plan
No. Subpart BBBBBBB does not require startup, shutdown, and malfunction plans.
§ 63.6(f)(1)
Compliance with Non-Opacity Emissions Standards—Applicability
No. The emission limits apply at all times.
§ 63.6(f)(2)-(3)
Methods for Determining Compliance and Finding of Compliance
Yes.
§ 63.6(g)
Use of an Alternative Non-Opacity Emission Standard
Yes.
§ 63.6(h)
Opacity/Visible Emission (VE) Standards
No. Subpart BBBBBBB does not contain opacity or VE standards.
§ 63.6(i)
Compliance Extension
Yes.
§ 63.6(j)
Presidential Compliance Exemption
Yes.
§ 63.7(a)-(d)
Performance Testing Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.7(e)(1)
Performance Testing Requirements
No. Subpart BBBBBBB specifies the conditions under which performance tests must be conducted.
§ 63.7(e)(2)-(4)
Conduct of Performance Tests and Data Reduction
Yes.
§ 63.7(f)-(h)
Use of Alternative Test Method; Data Analysis, Recordkeeping, and Reporting; and Waiver of Performance Tests
Yes.
§ 63.8(a)(1)
Applicability of Monitoring Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.8(a)(2)
Performance Specifications
No. Subpart BBBBBBB does not require CEMS to demonstrate compliance.
§ 63.8(a)(3)
[Reserved]
§ 63.8(a)(4)
Monitoring with Flares
No.
§ 63.8(b)(1)
Monitoring
Yes.
§ 63.8(b)(2)-(3)
Multiple Effluents and Multiple Monitoring Systems
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1)
Monitoring System Operation and Maintenance
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(i)
CMS maintenance
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(ii)
Spare Parts for CMS Malfunction
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(iii)
Compliance with Operation and Maintenance Requirements
No. Subpart BBBBBBB does not require startup, shutdown, and malfunction plans.
§ 63.8(c)(2)-(3)
Monitoring System Installation
Yes.
§ 63.8(c)(4)
CMS Requirements
No. Subpart BBBBBBB does not require CEMS to demonstrate compliance.
§ 63.8(c)(5)
COMS Minimum Procedures
No. Subpart BBBBBBB does not contain opacity or VE standards.
§ 63.8(c)(6)
CMS Requirements
Yes, for CPMS provisions only. Subpart BBBBBBB does not require CEMS to demonstrate compliance.
§ 63.8(c)(7)-(8)
CMS Requirements
No. Subpart BBBBBBB does not require CEMS to demonstrate compliance.
§ 63.8(d)
CMS Quality Control
No. Subpart BBBBBBB does not require CEMS to demonstrate compliance.
§ 63.8(e)-(g)
CMS Performance Evaluation
No. Subpart BBBBBBB does not require CEMS to demonstrate compliance.
§ 63.9
Notification Requirements
Yes. Except Initial Notification shall be submitted in accordance with the schedule in § 63.11585.
§ 63.10(a),(b)(1), (b)(2)(viii)-(xi),(c), (e)(1), (e)(2)(i), (f)
Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.11
Control Device and Work Practice Requirements
Yes.
§ 63.12
State Authority and Delegations
Yes.
§ 63.13
Addresses of State Air Pollution Control Agencies and EPA Regional Offices
Yes.
§ 63.14
Incorporations by Reference
Yes.
§ 63.15
Availability of Information and Confidentiality
Yes.
§ 63.16
Performance Track Provisions
No.

# Subpart CCCCCCC—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Paints and Allied Products Manufacturing

# Source:
74 FR 63525, Dec. 3, 2009, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11599
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a facility that performs paints and allied products manufacturing that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions and processes, uses, or generates materials containing HAP, as defined in § 63.11607.
(b) The affected source consists of all paints and allied products manufacturing processes that process, use, or generate materials containing HAP at the facility.
(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction before June 1, 2009.
(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after June 1, 2009.
(3) A facility becomes an affected source when you commence processing, using, or generating materials containing HAP, as defined in § 63.11607.
(c) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Whether you have a title V permit or not, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
(d) An affected source is no longer subject to this subpart if the facility no longer processes, uses, or generates materials containing HAP and does not plan to process, use or generate materials containing HAP in the future.
(e) The standards of this subpart do not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the CAA.
[74 FR 63525, Dec. 3, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 10186, Mar. 5, 2010]
§ 63.11600
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart by December 3, 2012.
(b) If you own or operate a new affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart by December 3, 2009, or upon startup of your affected source, whichever is later.
(c) If you own or operate a facility that becomes an affected source in accordance with § 63.11599(b)(3) after the applicable compliance date in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart by the date that you commence processing, using, or generating materials containing HAP, as defined in § 63.11607.

# Standards, Monitoring, and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11601
What are the standards for new and existing paints and allied products manufacturing facilities?
(a) For each new and existing affected source, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. These requirements apply at all times.
(1) You must add the dry pigments and solids that contain compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel and operate a capture system that minimizes fugitive particulate emissions during the addition of dry pigments and solids that contain compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel to a process vessel or to the grinding and milling process.
(2) You must capture particulate emissions and route them to a particulate control device meeting the requirements of paragraph (a)(6) of this section during the addition of dry pigments and solids that contain compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel to a process vessel. This requirement does not apply to pigments and other solids that are in paste, slurry, or liquid form.
(3) You must:
(i) Capture particulate emissions and route them to a particulate control device meeting the requirements of paragraph (a)(6) of this section during the addition of dry pigments and solids that contain compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel to the grinding and milling process; or
(ii) Add pigments and other solids that contain compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel to the grinding and milling process only in paste, slurry, or liquid form.
(4) You must:
(i) Capture particulate emissions and route them to a particulate control device meeting the requirements of paragraph (a)(5) of this section during the grinding and milling of materials containing compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel; or
(ii) Fully enclose the grinding and milling equipment during the grinding and milling of materials containing compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel; or
(iii) Ensure that the pigments and solids are in the solution during the grinding and milling of materials containing compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel.
(5) The visible emissions from the particulate control device exhaust must not exceed 10-percent opacity for particulate control devices that vent to the atmosphere. This requirement does not apply to particulate control devices that do not vent to the atmosphere.
(6) [Reserved]
(b) For each new and existing affected source, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Process and storage vessels that store or process materials containing benzene or methylene chloride, except for process vessels which are mixing vessels, must be equipped with covers or lids meeting the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) The covers or lids can be of solid or flexible construction, provided they do not warp or move around during the manufacturing process.
(ii) The covers or lids must maintain contact along at least 90-percent of the vessel rim. The 90-percent contact requirement is calculated by subtracting the length of any visible gaps from the circumference of the process vessel, and dividing this number by the circumference of the process vessel. The resulting ratio must not exceed 90-percent.
(iii) The covers or lids must be maintained in good condition.
(2) Mixing vessels that store or process materials containing benzene or methylene chloride must be equipped with covers that completely cover the vessel, except as necessary to allow for safe clearance of the mixer shaft.
(3) All vessels that store or process materials containing benzene or methylene chloride must be kept covered at all times, except for quality control testing and product sampling, addition of materials, material removal, or when the vessel is empty. The vessel is empty if:
(i) All materials containing benzene or methylene chloride have been removed that can be removed using the
practices commonly employed to remove materials from that type of vessel, e.g., pouring, pumping, and aspirating; and
(ii) No more than 2.5 centimeters (one inch) depth of residue remains on the bottom of the vessel, or no more than 3 percent by weight of the total capacity of the vessel remains in the vessel.
(4) Leaks and spills of materials containing benzene or methylene chloride must be minimized and cleaned up as soon as practical, but no longer than 1 hour from the time of detection.
(5) Rags or other materials that use a solvent containing benzene or methylene chloride for cleaning must be kept in a closed container. The closed container may contain a device that allows pressure relief, but does not allow liquid solvent to drain from the container.
[74 FR 63525, Dec. 3, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 10186, Mar. 5, 2010]
§ 63.11602
What are the performance test and compliance requirements for new and existing sources?
(a) For each new and existing affected source, you must demonstrate initial compliance by conducting the inspection and monitoring activities in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and ongoing compliance by conducting the inspection and testing activities in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1) Initial particulate control device inspections and tests. You must conduct an initial inspection of each particulate control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section and perform a visible emissions test according to the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section. You must record the results of each inspection and test according to paragraph (b) of this section and perform corrective action where necessary.You must conduct each inspection no later than 180 days after your applicable compliance date for each control device which has been operated within 60 days following the compliance date. For a control device which has not been installed or operated within 60 days following the compliance date, you must conduct an initial inspection prior to startup of the control device.
(i) For each wet particulate control system, you must verify the presence of water flow to the control equipment. You must also visually inspect the system ductwork and control equipment for leaks and inspect the interior of the control equipment (if applicable) for structural integrity and the condition of the control system.
(ii) For each dry particulate control system, you must visually inspect the system ductwork and dry particulate control unit for leaks. You must also inspect the inside of each dry particulate control unit for structural integrity and condition.
(iii) An initial inspection of the internal components of a wet or dry particulate control system is not required if there is a record that an inspection meeting the requirements of this subsection has been performed within the past 12 months and any maintenance actions have been resolved.
(iv) For each particulate control device, you must conduct a visible emission test consisting of three 1-minute test runs using Method 203C (40 CFR part 51, appendix M). The visible emission test runs must be performed during the addition of dry pigments and solids containing compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel to a process vessel or to the grinding and milling equipment. If the average test results of the visible emissions test runs indicate an opacity greater than the applicable limitation in § 63.11601(a), you must take corrective action and retest within 15 days.
(2) Ongoing particulate control device inspections and tests. Following the initial inspections, you must perform periodic inspections of each PM control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section. You must record the results of each inspection according to paragraph (b) of this section and perform corrective action where necessary. You must also conduct tests according to the requirements in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section and record the results according to paragraph (b) of this section.
(i) You must inspect and maintain each wet particulate control system
according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the presence of water flow to the wet particulate control system.
(B) You must conduct weekly visual inspections of any flexible ductwork for leaks.
(C) You must conduct inspections of the rigid, stationary ductwork for leaks, and the interior of the wet control system (if applicable) to determine the structural integrity and condition of the control equipment every 12 months.
(ii) You must inspect and maintain each dry particulate control unit according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) You must conduct weekly visual inspections of any flexible ductwork for leaks.
(B) You must conduct inspections of the rigid, stationary ductwork for leaks, and the interior of the dry particulate control unit for structural integrity and to determine the condition of the fabric filter (if applicable) every 12 months.
(iii) For each particulate control device, you must conduct a 5-minute visual determination of emissions from the particulate control device every 3 months using Method 22 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7). The visible emission test must be performed during the addition of dry pigments and solids containing compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel to a process vessel or to the grinding and milling equipment. If visible emissions are observed for two minutes of the required 5-minute observation period, you must conduct a Method 203C (40 CFR part 51, appendix M) test within 15 days of the time when visible emissions were observed. The Method 203C test will consist of three 1-minute test runs and must be performed during the addition of dry pigments and solids containing compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel HAP to a process vessel or to the grinding and milling equipment. If the Method 203C test runs indicates an opacity greater than the limitation in § 63.11601(a)(5), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) You must take corrective action and retest using Method 203C within 15 days. The Method 203C test will consist of three 1-minute test runs and must be performed during the addition of dry pigments and solids containing compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel to a process vessel or to the grinding and milling equipment. You must continue to take corrective action and retest each 15 days until a Method 203C test indicates an opacity equal to or less than the limitation in § 63.11601(a)(5).
(B) You must prepare a deviation report in accordance with § 63.11603(b)(3) for each instance in which the Method 203C opacity results were greater than the limitation in § 63.11601(a)(5).
(C) You must resume the visible determinations of emissions from the particulate control device in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section 3 months after the previous visible determination.
(b) You must record the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section for each inspection and testing activity.
(1) The date, place, and time;
(2) Person conducting the activity;
(3) Technique or method used;
(4) Operating conditions during the activity;
(5) Results; and
(6) Description of correction actions taken.
[74 FR 63525, Dec. 3, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 10186, Mar. 5, 2010]
§ 63.11603
What are the notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?
(a)
Notifications.
You must submit the notifications identified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Initial Notification of Applicability.
If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must submit an initial notification of applicability required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than June 1, 2010, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. If you own or operate a new affected source, you must submit an initial notification of
applicability required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than 180 days after initial start-up of the operations, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, or June 1, 2010, whichever is later. The notification of applicability must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) The name and address of the owner or operator;
(ii) The address (i.e., physical location) of the affected source; and
(iii) An identification of the relevant standard, or other requirement, that is the basis of the notification and the source's compliance date.
(2)
Notification of Compliance Status.
If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.9(h) of the General Provisions by June 3, 2013. If you own or operate a new affected source, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status within 180 days after initial start-up, or by June 1, 2010, whichever is later. If you own or operate an affected source that becomes an affected source in accordance with § 63.11599(b)(3) after the applicable compliance date in § 63.11600 (a) or (b), you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status within 180 days of the date that you commence processing, using, or generating materials containing HAP, as defined in 63.11607. This Notification of Compliance Status must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Your company's name and address;
(ii) A statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification, a description of the method of compliance (i.e., compliance with management practices, installation of a wet or dry scrubber) and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart.
(b)
Annual Compliance Certification Report.
You must prepare an annual compliance certification report according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section. This report does not need to be submitted unless a deviation from the requirements of this subpart has occurred. When a deviation from the requirements of this subpart has occurred, the annual compliance certification report must be submitted along with the deviation report.
(1)
Dates.
You must prepare and, if applicable, submit each annual compliance certification report according to the dates specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) The first annual compliance certification report must cover the first annual reporting period which begins the day of the compliance date and ends on December 31.
(ii) Each subsequent annual compliance certification report must cover the annual reporting period from January 1 through December 31.
(iii) Each annual compliance certification report must be prepared no later than January 31 and kept in a readily-accessible location for inspector review. If a deviation has occurred during the year, each annual compliance certification report must be submitted along with the deviation report, and postmarked no later than February 15.
(2)
General Requirements.
The annual compliance certification report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Company name and address;
(ii) A statement in accordance with § 63.9(h) of the General Provisions that is signed by a responsible official with that official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart; and
(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the 12-month period beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31.
(3)
Deviation Report.
If a deviation has occurred during the reporting period, you must include a description of deviations from the applicable requirements, the time periods during which
the deviations occurred, and the corrective actions taken. This deviation report must be submitted along with your annual compliance certification report, as required by paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
(c)
Records.
You must maintain the records specified I paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section in accordance with paragraphs (c)(5) through (6) of this section, for five years after the date of each recorded action.
(1) As required in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), you must keep a copy of each notification that you submitted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, and all documentation supporting any Notification of Applicability and Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted.
(2) You must keep a copy of each Annual Compliance Certification Report prepared in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) You must keep records of all inspections and tests as required by § 63.11602(b).
(4) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1).
(5) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each recorded action.
(6) You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each recorded action according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.
(d) If you no longer process, use, or generate materials containing HAP after December 3, 2009, you must submit a Notification in accordance with § 63.11599(d), which must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Your company's name and address;
(2) A statement by a responsible official indicating that the facility no longer processes, uses, or generates materials containing HAP, as defined in § 63.11607, and that there are no plans to process, use or generate such materials in the future. This statement should also include the date by which the company ceased using materials containing HAP, as defined in 63.11607, and the responsible official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature.
[74 FR 63525, Dec. 3, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 10186, Mar. 5, 2010; 85 FR 73921, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 63.11604
[Reserved]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11605
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
Table 1 of this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in §§ 63.1 through 63.16 apply to you.
§ 63.11606
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as a state, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency pursuant to 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, then that Agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your state, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a state, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.
(1) Approval of an alternative nonopacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90
(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90. As required in § 63.11432, you must comply with the requirements of the NESHAP General Provisions (40 CFR part 63,
subpart A) as shown in the following table.
§ 63.11607
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, § 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Construction
means the onsite fabrication, erection, or installation of an affected source. Addition of new equipment to an affected source does not constitute construction, but it may constitute reconstruction of the affected source if it satisfies the definition of reconstruction in § 63.2.
Deviation
means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or management practices established by this subpart;
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement a requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or
(3) Fails to meet any emissions limitation or management practice in this subpart.
Dry particulate control system
means an air pollution control device that uses filtration, impaction, or electrical forces to remove particulate matter in the exhaust stream.
Fabric filter
means an air collection and control system that utilizes a bag filter to reduce the emissions of metal HAP and other particulate matter.
Material containing HAP
means a material containing benzene, methylene chloride, or compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, and/or nickel, in amounts greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by weight for carcinogens, as defined by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration at 29 CFR 1910.1200(d)(4), or 1.0 percent by weight for non-carcinogens, as shown in formulation data provided by the manufacturer or supplier, such as the Material Safety Data Sheet for the material. Benzene and methylene chloride are volatile HAP. Compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead and/or nickel are metal HAP.
Paints and allied products
means materials such as paints, inks, adhesives, stains, varnishes, shellacs, putties, sealers, caulks, and other coatings from raw materials that are intended to be applied to a substrate and consists of a mixture of resins, pigments, solvents, and/or other additives.
Paints and allied products manufacturing
means the production of paints and allied products, the intended use of which is to leave a dried film of solid material on a substrate. Typically, the manufacturing processes that produce these materials are described by Standard Industry Classification (SIC) codes 285 or 289 and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes 3255 and 3259 and are produced by physical means, such as blending and mixing, as opposed to chemical synthesis means, such as reactions and distillation. Paints and allied products manufacturing does not include:
(1) The manufacture of products that do not leave a dried film of solid material on the substrate, such as thinners, paint removers, brush cleaners, and mold release agents;
(2) The manufacture of electroplated and electroless metal films;
(3) The manufacture of raw materials, such as resins, pigments, and solvents used in the production of paints and coatings; and
(4) Activities by end users of paints or allied products to ready those materials for application.
Paints and allied products manufacturing process
means all the equipment which collectively function to produce a paint or allied product. A process may consist of one or more unit operations. For the purposes of this subpart, the manufacturing process includes any, all, or a combination of, weighing, blending, mixing, grinding, tinting, dilution or other formulation. Cleaning operations, material storage and transfer, and piping are considered part of the manufacturing process. This definition does not cover activities by end users of paints or allied products to ready those materials for application. Quality assurance and quality control laboratories are not considered part of a paints and allied products manufacturing process. Research and development facilities, as
defined in section 112(c)(7) of the CAA are not considered part of a paints and allied products manufacturing process.
Particulate matter control device
means any equipment, device, or other article that is designed and/or installed for the purpose of reducing or preventing the discharge of metal HAP emissions to the atmosphere.
Process vessel
means any stationary or portable tank or other vessel of any capacity and in which mixing, blending, diluting, dissolving, temporary holding, and other processing steps occur in the manufacturing of a coating.
Responsible official
means one of the following:
(1) For a corporation: A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation, or a duly authorized representative of such person if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating facilities and either:
(i) The facilities employ more than 250 persons or have gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding $25 million (in second quarter 1980 dollars); or
(ii) The delegation of authority to such representative is approved in advance by the Administrator.
(2) For a partnership or sole proprietorship: A general partner or the proprietor, respectively.
(3) For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency: Either a principal executive officer or ranking elected official. For the purposes of this part, a principal executive officer of a Federal agency includes the chief executive officer having responsibility for the overall operations of a principal geographic unit of the agency (e.g., a Regional Administrator of the EPA).
(4) For affected sources (as defined in this part) applying for or subject to a title V permit: “Responsible official” shall have the same meaning as defined in part 70 or Federal title V regulations in this chapter (42 U.S.C. 7661), whichever is applicable.
Storage vessel
means a tank, container or other vessel that is used to store volatile liquids that contain one or more of the listed volatile HAP, benzene or methylene chloride, as raw material feedstocks or products. It also includes objects, such as rags or other containers which are stored in the vessel. The following are not considered storage vessels for the purposes of this subpart:
(1) Vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships;
(2) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere;
(3) Vessels storing volatile liquids that contain HAP only as impurities;
(4) Wastewater storage tanks; and
(5) Process vessels.
Wet particulate control device
means an air pollution control device that uses water or other liquid to contact and remove particulate matter in the exhaust stream.
[74 FR 63525, Dec. 3, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 31320, June 3, 2010]
§§ 63.11608-63.11618
[Reserved]
Pt. 63, Subpt. CCCCCCC, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart CCCCCCC of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Paints and Allied Products Manufacturing Area Sources
As required in § 63.11599, you must meet each requirement in the following table that applies to you. Part 63 General Provisions that apply for Paints and Allied Products Manufacturing Area Sources:
Citation
Subject
Applies to subpart CCCCCCC
63.1
Applicability
Yes.
63.2
Definitions
Yes.
63.3
Units and abbreviations
Yes.
63.4
Prohibited activities
Yes.
63.5
Preconstruction review and notification requirements
No.
63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (c), (e)(1), (f)(2), (f)(3), (g), (i), (j)
Compliance with standards and maintenance requirements
Yes.
63.7(a), (e), and (f)
Performance testing requirements
Yes.
63.8
Monitoring requirements
No.
63.9(a)-(d), (i), and (j)
Notification Requirements
Yes.
63.10(a), (b)(1)
Recordkeeping and Reporting
Yes.
63.10(d)(1)
Recordkeeping and Reporting
Yes.
63.11
Control device and work practice requirements
No.
63.12
State authority and delegations
Yes.
63.13
Addresses of state air pollution control agencies and EPA regional offices
Yes.
63.14
Incorporation by reference
No.
63.15
Availability of information and confidentiality
Yes.
63.16
Performance track provisions
No.

# Subpart DDDDDDD—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Prepared Feeds Manufacturing

# Source:
75 FR 546, Jan. 5, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11619
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a prepared feeds manufacturing facility that uses a material containing chromium or a material containing manganese and is an area source of emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAP).
(b) The provisions of this subpart apply to each new and existing prepared feeds manufacturing affected source. A prepared feeds manufacturing affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to produce animal feed from the point in the process where a material containing chromium or a material containing manganese is added, to the point where the finished animal feed product leaves the facility. This includes, but is not limited to, areas where materials containing chromium and manganese are stored, areas where materials containing chromium and manganese are temporarily stored prior to addition to the feed at the mixer, mixing and grinding processes, pelleting and pellet cooling processes, packing and bagging processes, crumblers and screens, bulk loading operations, and all conveyors and other equipment that transfer the feed materials throughout the manufacturing facility.
(1) A prepared feeds manufacturing affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the facility on or before July 27, 2009.
(2) A prepared feeds manufacturing affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the facility after July 27, 2009.
(3) A collection of equipment and activities necessary to produce animal feed at a prepared feeds manufacturing facility becomes an affected source when you commence using a material containing chromium or a material containing manganese.
(c) An affected source is no longer subject to this subpart if the facility stops using materials containing chromium or manganese.
(d) This subpart does not apply to the facilities identified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Prepared feeds manufacturing facilities that do not add any materials containing chromium or manganese to any product manufactured at the facility.
(2) Research or laboratory facilities as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).
(e) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
§ 63.11620
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart by no later than January 5, 2012.
(b) If you own or operate a new affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart by January 5, 2010, or upon startup of your affected source, whichever is later.
(c) If you own or operate a facility that becomes an affected source in accordance with § 63.11619 after the applicable compliance date in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart by the date that you commence using a material containing manganese or a material containing chromium.
(d) If the average daily feed production level exceeds 50 tons per day for a calendar year for a facility not complying with the requirement in § 63.11621(e) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations, you must comply with § 63.11621(e) and all associated requirements by July 1 of the year following the one-year period.

# Standards, Monitoring, and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11621
What are the standards for new and existing prepared feeds manufacturing facilities?
You must comply with the management practices and standards in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section at all times. For pelleting operations at prepared feeds manufacturing facilities with an average daily feed production level exceeding 50 tons per day, you must also comply with the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section at all times if you are a new source, and if you are an existing source, you must also comply with the requirements in paragraph (f) of this section at all times.
(a) In all areas of the affected source where materials containing chromium or manganese are stored, used, or handled, you must comply with the management practices in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must perform housekeeping measures to minimize excess dust. These measures must include, but not be limited to, the practices specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must use either an industrial vacuum system or manual sweeping to reduce the amount of dust;
(ii) At least once per month, you must remove dust from walls, ledges, and equipment using low pressure air or by other means, and then sweep or vacuum the area;
(iii) You must keep exterior doors in the immediate affected areas shut except during normal ingress and egress, as practicable. This paragraph (a)(1)(iii) does not apply to areas where finished product is stored in closed containers, and no other materials containing chromium or manganese are present.
(2) You must maintain and operate all process equipment in accordance with manufacturer's specifications and in a manner to minimize dust creation.
(b) You must store any raw materials containing chromium or manganese in closed containers.
(c) The mixer where materials containing chromium or manganese are added must be covered at all times when mixing is occurring, except when the materials are being added to the mixer. Materials containing chromium or manganese must be added to the mixer in a manner that minimizes emissions.
(d) For the bulk loading process where materials containing chromium or manganese are loaded into trucks or railcars, you must lessen fugitive emissions by reducing the distance between the loadout spout and the vehicle being loaded by either paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section.
(1) Use a device of any kind at the bulk loadout spout that minimizes the distance to the vehicle being loaded.
(2) Use any other means to minimize the distance between the loadout spout and the vehicle being loaded.
(e) For the pelleting operations at new prepared feeds manufacturing facilities with an average daily feed production level exceeding 50 tons per day,
you must capture emissions and route them to a cyclone designed to reduce emissions of particulate matter by 95 percent or greater. You must also comply with the provisions in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) You must demonstrate that the cyclone is designed to reduce emissions of particulate matter by 95 percent or greater using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Manufacturer specifications;
(ii) Certification by a professional engineer or responsible official; or
(iii) A performance test conducted in accordance with § 63.11623 of this section.
(2) You must establish an inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage range that represents proper operation of the cyclone in accordance with the applicable requirement in paragraphs (e)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(i) If you demonstrate the cyclone design efficiency using manufacturer specifications in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, the inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage range that represents proper operation of the cyclone must be provided by the manufacturer.
(ii) If you demonstrate the cyclone design efficiency using certification by a professional engineer or responsible official in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, this certification must include calculations to establish an inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage range that represents proper operation of the cyclone.
(iii) If you demonstrate the cyclone design efficiency using a performance test in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section, you must monitor the inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage during the test and establish a range that represents proper operation of the cyclone based on the data obtained during the test.
(3) You must maintain and operate the cyclone in accordance with manufacturer's specifications. If manufacturer's specifications are not available, you must develop and follow standard maintenance and operating procedures that ensure proper operation of the cyclone.
(f) For the pelleting operations at existing prepared feeds manufacturing facilities with an average daily feed production level exceeding 50 tons per day, you must capture emissions and route them to a cyclone. The cyclone must be maintained in accordance with good air pollution control practices and manufacturer's specifications and operating instructions, if available. If manufacturer's specifications and operating instructions are not available, you must develop and follow standard operating procedures that ensure proper operation and maintenance of the cyclone.
[75 FR 546, Jan. 5, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 80265, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 63.11622
What are the monitoring requirements for new and existing sources?
(a) If you own or operate an affected source required by § 63.11621(d) to use a device at the loadout end of a bulk loader that reduces fugitive emissions from a bulk loading process, you must perform monthly inspections of each device to ensure it is in proper working condition. You must record the results of these inspections in accordance with § 63.11624(c)(4) of this subpart.
(b) If you own or operate an affected source required by § 63.11621(e) or (f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations, you must comply with the inspection and monitoring requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and either (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section, as applicable.
(1) You must perform quarterly inspections of the cyclone for corrosion, erosion, or any other damage that could result in air in-leakage, and record the results in accordance with § 63.11624(c).
(2) If you own or operate a new source, you must monitor inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage at least once per day when the pelleting process is in operation. You must also record the inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage in accordance with § 63.11624(c)(4).
(3) If you own or operate an existing source, you must perform a weekly visual inspection of the operating cyclone to ensure it is operating consistent with good air pollution control practices.
[75 FR 546, Jan. 5, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 80265, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 63.11623
What are the testing requirements?
(a) If you are demonstrating that the cyclone required by § 63.11621(e) is designed to reduce emissions of particulate matter by 95 percent or greater by the performance test option in § 63.11621(e)(1)(iii), you must conduct a test in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and calculate the percent reduction in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) You must use Method 5 in Appendix A to part 60 to determine the particulate matter mass rate at the inlet and outlet of the cyclone. You must conduct at least three runs at the cyclone inlet and three runs at the cyclone outlet. Each run must have a sampling time of at least 60 minutes and a sample volume of at least 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).
(c) You must calculate the percent particulate matter reduction using Equation 1.
ER05JA10.004
Where:
PM RED = particulate matter reduction, percent;
M
INLET
= Mass of particulate matter at the inlet of the cyclone, dry basis, corrected to standard conditions, g/min;
M
OUTLET
= Mass of particulate matter at the outlet of the cyclone, dry basis, corrected to standard conditions, g/min;
§ 63.11624
What are the notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?
(a)
Notifications.
You must submit the notifications identified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Initial Notification.
If you are the owner of an affected source you must submit an Initial Notification no later than May 5, 2010, or 120 days after you become subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The Initial Notification must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) The name, address, phone number and e-mail address of the owner and operator;
(ii) The address (physical location) of the affected source;
(iii) An identification of the relevant standard (
i.e.,
this subpart); and
(iv) A brief description of the operation.
(2)
Notification of Compliance Status.
If you are the owner of an existing affected source, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.9(h) of the General Provisions on or before May 4, 2012. If you are the owner or operator of a new affected source, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status within 120 days of initial startup, or by October 18, 2010, whichever is later. If you own or operate an affected source that becomes an affected source in accordance with § 63.11619(b)(3) after the applicable compliance date in § 63.11620 (a) or (b), you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status within 120 days of the date that you commence using materials containing manganese or chromium. This Notification of Compliance Status must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Your company's name and address;
(ii) A statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant
standards and other requirements of this subpart;
(iii) If you own or operate a new source required by § 63.11621(e) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations, the inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage range than constitutes proper operation of the cyclone determined in accordance with § 63.11621(e)(2).
(iv) If you own or operate an existing source required by § 63.11621(f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations, documentation of what constitutes proper operation of the cyclone determined in accordance with § 63.11621(f).
(v) If you own or operate an affected source that is not subject to a requirement in § 63.11621(e) or (f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations because your initial average daily feed production level was 50 tpd or less, documentation of your initial daily pelleting production level determination.
(b)
Annual compliance certification report.
You must, by March 1 of each year, prepare an annual compliance certification report for the previous calendar year containing the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section. You must submit the report if you had any instance described by paragraph (b)(3) or (b)(4) of this section.
(1) Your company's name and address.
(2) A statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart.
(3) If the source is not in compliance, include a description of deviations from the applicable requirements, the time periods during which the deviations occurred, and the corrective actions taken.
(4) If you own or operate a new source that is subject to § 63.11621(e), you must identify all instances when the daily inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage is outside the range that constitutes proper operation of the cyclone submitted as part of your Notification of Compliance Status. In these instances, include the time periods when this occurred and the corrective actions taken.
(5) If you own or operate an existing source that is subject to § 63.11621(f), you must identify all instances when the cyclone was not operating properly as determined in accordance with § 63.11621(f).
(6) If you own or operate an affected source that is not subject to a requirement in § 63.11621(e) or (f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations because your average daily feed production level was 50 tpd or less, notification if your average daily feed production level for the previous year exceeded 50 tpd.
(7) If you own or operate an affected source that was subject to a requirement in § 63.11621(e) or (f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations, notification if your average daily feed production level for the previous year was 50 tpd or less and that you are no longer complying with § 63.11621(e) or (f).
(c)
Records.
You must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section in accordance with paragraphs (c)(7) through (9) of this section.
(1) As required in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), you must keep a copy of each notification that you submitted to comply with this subpart in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, and all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted.
(2) You must keep a copy of each Annual Compliance Certification prepared in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) For each device used to comply with the requirements in § 63.11621(d), you must keep the records of all inspections including the information identified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) The date, place, and time of each inspection;
(ii) Person performing the inspection;
(iii) Results of the inspection, including the date, time, and duration of the corrective action period from the time
the inspection indicated a problem to the time of the indication that the device was replaced or restored to operation.
(4) If you own or operate a new source that is subject to § 63.11621(e), you must keep the records in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) If you demonstrate that the cyclone is designed to reduce emission of particulate matter by 95 percent or greater by manufacturer's specifications in accordance with § 63.11621(e)(1(i), you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) Information from the manufacturer regarding the design efficiency of the cyclone,
(B) The inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage range that represents proper operation of the cyclone,
(C) The operation and maintenance procedures to ensure proper operation of the cyclone.
(ii) If you demonstrate that the cyclone is designed to reduce emissions of particulate matter by 95 percent or greater by certification by a professional engineer in accordance with paragraph § 63.11621(e)(1)(ii), you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) Certification regarding the design efficiency of the cyclone, along with supporting information,
(B) The inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage range that represents proper operation of the cyclone,
(C) The standard maintenance and operating procedures that ensure proper operation of the cyclone.
(iii) If you demonstrate that the cyclone is designed to reduce emissions of particulate matter by 95 percent or greater by a performance in accordance with paragraph § 63.11621(e)(1)(iii), you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) Results of the testing conducted in accordance with § 63.11623,
(B) The inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage range that represents proper operation of the cyclone,
(C) The standard maintenance and operating procedures that ensure proper operation of the cyclone.
(iv) Records of all quarterly inspections including the information identified in paragraphs (c)(4)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) The date, place, and time of each inspection;
(B) Person performing the inspection;
(C) Results of the inspection, including the date, time, and duration of the corrective action period from the time the inspection indicated a problem to the time of the indication that the cyclone was restored to proper operation.
(v) Records of the daily inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage measurements, along with the date, time, and duration of the correction action period from the time the monitoring indicated a problem to the time of the indication that the cyclone was restored to proper operation.
(5) If you own or operate an existing source that is subject to § 63.11621(f), you must keep the records in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Records of all quarterly inspections including the information identified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) The date, place, and time of each inspection;
(B) Person performing the inspection;
(C) Results of the inspection, including the date, time, and duration of the corrective action period from the time the inspection indicated a problem to the time of the indication that the cyclone was restored to proper operation.
(ii) Records of weekly visual inspections of the operating cyclone, including a record of any corrective action taken as a result of the inspection.
(6) If you own or operate an affected source that is not subject to a requirement in § 63.11621(e) or (f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations because your average daily feed production level is 50 tpd or less, feed production records to enable the determination of the average daily feed production level.
(7) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1).
(8) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each recorded action.
(9) You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each recorded action according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.
(d) If you no longer use materials that contain manganese or chromium after January 5, 2010, you must submit a Notification in accordance with § 63.11619(c) which includes the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Your company's name and address;
(2) A statement by a responsible official indicating that the facility no longer uses materials that contain chromium or manganese. This statement should also include an effective date for the termination of use of materials that contain chromium or manganese, and the responsible official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature.
[75 FR 546, Jan. 5, 2010, as amended at 75 FR 41994, July 20, 2010; 76 FR 80266, Dec. 23, 2011]

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11625
What parts of the General Provisions apply to my facility?
Table 1 of this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in §§ 63.1 through 63.16 apply to you.
§ 63.11626
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by EPA or a delegated authority such as your State, local, or Tribal agency. If the EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or Tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the EPA Administrator and are not transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Approval of an alternative nonopacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g).
(2) Approval of an alternative opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(h)(9).
(3) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90.
(5) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90.
§ 63.11627
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in § 63.2, and in this section.
Animal feed
includes: Dehydrated alfalfa meal; alfalfa prepared as feed for animals; cubed alfalfa; prepared animal feed; chopped, crushed, or ground barley feed; prepared bird feed; blended animal feed; bone meal prepared as feed for animals and fowls; cattle feeds, supplements, concentrates, and premixes; prepared chicken feeds; cattle feed citrus pulp; complete livestock feed; custom milled animal feed; dairy cattle feeds supplements, concentrates, and premixes; earthworm food and bedding; animal feed concentrates; animal feed premixes; animal feed supplements; prepared animal feeds; specialty animal (
e.g.,
guinea pig, mice, mink) feeds; fish food for feeding fish; custom ground grains for animal feed; cubed hay; kelp meal and pellets animal feed; laboratory animal feed; livestock feeds, supplements, concentrates and premixes; alfalfa meal; bone meal prepared as feed for animals and fowls;
livestock micro and macro premixes; mineral feed supplements; animal mineral supplements; pet food; poultry feeds, supplements, and concentrates; rabbit food; shell crushed and ground animal feed; swine feed; swine feed supplements, concentrates, and premixes; and prepared turkey feeds. Feed products produced for dogs and cats are not considered animal feed for the purposes of this subpart.
Average daily feed production level
means the average amount of animal feed products produced each day over an annual period. The initial determination of the average daily feed production level is based on the one-year period prior to the compliance date for existing sources, or the design rate for new sources. The subsequent average daily feed production levels are determined annually and are based on the amount of animal feed products produced in a calendar year divided by the number of days in which the production processes were in operation.
Cyclone
means a mechanically aided collector that uses inertia to separate particulate matter from the gas stream as it spirals through the cyclone.
Material containing chromium
means a material that contains chromium (Cr, atomic number 24) in amounts greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by weight.
Material containing manganese
means a material that contains manganese (Mn, atomic number 25) in amounts greater than or equal to 1.0 percent by weight.
Pelleting operations
means all operations that make pelleted animal feed, including but not limited to, steam conditioning, die-casting, drying, cooling, and crumbling, and granulation.
Prepared feeds manufacturing facility
means a facility that is primarily engaged in manufacturing animal feed. A facility is primarily engaged in manufacturing animal feed if the production of animal feed comprises greater than 50 percent of the total production of the facility on an annual basis. Facilities primarily engaged in raising or feeding animals are not prepared feed manufacturing facilities. Facilities engaged in the growing of agricultural crops that are used in the manufacturing of feed are not considered prepared feeds manufacturing facilities.
§§ 63.11628-63.11638
[Reserved]
Pt. 63, Subpt. DDDDDDD, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart DDDDDDD of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Prepared Feeds Manufacturing Area Sources
As required in § 63.11619, you must meet each requirement in the following table that applies to you.
Citation
Subject
Applies to Subpart DDDDDDD?
63.1
Applicability
Yes.
63.2
Definitions
Yes.
63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Yes.
63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention
Yes.
63.5
Preconstruction Review and Notification Requirements
No.
63.6(a),(b)(1)-(b)(5), (b)(7), (c), (f)(2)-(3), (g), (i), and (j)
Compliance with Standards and Maintenance Requirements
Yes.
63.6(e)(1), (e)(3), (f)(1), and (h)
Startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements and opacity/visible emission standards
No. Standards apply at all times, including during startup, shutdown, and malfunction events.
63.7
Performance Testing Requirements
Yes.
63.8
Monitoring Requirements
Yes.
63.9(a), (b), (c), (d), (h), (i), and (j)
Notification Requirements
Yes.
63.9(e), (f), (g)
No.
63.10(a),(b)(1), (b)(2)(i)-(iii), (b)(2)(vi)-(xiv), (c), (d)(1), (e), and (f)
Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
Yes.
63.10(b)(2)(iv)-(v), (b)(3), and (d)(2)-(5)
Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
No.
63.11
Control Device Requirements
No.
63.12
State Authorities and Delegations
Yes.
63.13
Addresses
Yes.
63.14
Incorporations by Reference
Yes.
63.15
Availability of Information and Confidentiality
Yes.
63.16
Performance Track Provisions
Yes.
63.1(a)(5), (a)(7)-(9), (b)(2), (c)(3)-(4), (d), 63.6(b)(6), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(2), (e)(3)(ii), (h)(3), (h)(5)(iv), 63.8(a)(3), 63.9(b)(3), (h)(4), 63.10(c)(2)-(4), (c)(9)
Reserved
No.

# Subpart EEEEEEE—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Gold Mine Ore Processing and Production Area Source Category

# Source:
76 FR 9480, Feb. 17, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Applicability and Compliance Dates
§ 63.11640
Am I subject to this subpart?
(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a gold mine ore processing and production facility as defined in § 63.11651, that is an area source.
(b) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source. The affected sources are each collection of “ore pretreatment processes” at a gold mine ore processing and production facility, each collection of “carbon processes with mercury retorts” at a gold mine ore processing and production facility, each collection of “carbon processes without mercury retorts” at a gold mine ore processing and production facility, and each collection of “non-carbon concentrate processes” at a gold mine ore processing and production facility, as defined in § 63.11651.
(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before April 28, 2010.
(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after April 28, 2010.
(c) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).
(d) If you own or operate a source subject to this subpart, you must have or you must obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71.
§ 63.11641
What are my compliance dates?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must comply with the applicable provisions of this subpart no later than February 17, 2014.
(b) If you own or operate a new affected source, and the initial startup of your affected source is on or before February 17, 2011, you must comply with the provisions of this subpart no later than February 17, 2011.
(c) If you own or operate a new affected source, and the initial startup of your affected source is after February 17, 2011, you must comply with the provisions of this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

# Standards and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11645
What are my mercury emission standards?
(a) For existing ore pretreatment processes, you must emit no more than 127 pounds of mercury per million tons of ore processed.
(b) For existing carbon processes with mercury retorts, you must emit no more than 2.2 pounds of mercury per ton of concentrate processed.
(c) For existing carbon processes without mercury retorts, you must emit no more than 0.17 pounds of mercury per ton of concentrate processed.
(d) For existing non-carbon concentrate processes, you must emit no more than 0.2 pounds of mercury per ton of concentrate processed.
(e) For new ore pretreatment processes, you must emit no more than 84 pounds of mercury per million tons of ore processed.
(f) For new carbon processes with mercury retorts, you must emit no more than 0.8 pounds of mercury per ton of concentrate processed.
(g) For new carbon processes without mercury retorts, you must emit no
more than 0.14 pounds of mercury per ton of concentrate processed.
(h) For new non-carbon concentrate processes, you must emit no more than 0.1 pounds of mercury per ton of concentrate processed.
(i) The standards set forth in this section apply at all times.
§ 63.11646
What are my compliance requirements?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, you must conduct a mercury compliance emission test within 180 days of the compliance date for all process units at new and existing affected sources according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(13) of this section. This compliance testing must be repeated annually thereafter, with no two consecutive annual compliance tests occurring less than 3 months apart or more than 15 months apart.
(1) You must determine the concentration of mercury and the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas according to the following test methods and procedures:
(i) Method 1 or 1A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1) to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device (or at the outlet of the emissions source if no control device is present) and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.
(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1), or Method 2G (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2) to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.
(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2) to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses” (incorporated by reference-see § 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.
(iv) Method 4 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3) to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.
(v) Method 29 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8) to determine the concentration of mercury, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1)(vi) and (vii) of this section.
(vi) Upon approval by the permitting authority, ASTM D6784; “Standard Test Method for Elemental, Oxidized, Particle-Bound and Total Mercury in Flue Gas Generated from Coal-Fired Stationary Sources (Ontario Hydro Method)” (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) may be used as an alternative to Method 29 to determine the concentration of mercury.
(vii) Upon approval by the permitting authority, Method 30B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8) may be used as an alternative to Method 29 to determine the concentration of mercury for those process units with relatively low particulate-bound mercury as specified in Section 1.2 of Method 30B.
(2) A minimum of three test runs must be conducted for each performance test of each process unit. Each test run conducted with Method 29 must collect a minimum sample volume of 0.85 dry standard cubic meters (30 dry standard cubic feet). If conducted with Method 30B or ASTM D6784, determine sample time and volume according to the testing criteria set forth in the relevant method. If the emission testing results for any of the emission points yields a non-detect value, then the minimum detection limit (MDL) must be used to calculate the mass emissions rate (lb/hr) used to calculate the emissions factor (lb/ton) for that emission point and, in turn, for calculating the sum of the emissions (in units of pounds of mercury per ton of concentrate, or pounds of mercury per million tons of ore) for all emission points subject to the emission standard for determining compliance. If the resulting mercury emissions are greater than the MACT emission standard, the owner or operator may use procedures that produce lower MDL results and repeat the mercury emissions testing one additional time for any emission point for which the measured result was below the MDL. If this additional testing is performed, the results from that testing must be used to determine compliance (
i.e.,
there are no additional opportunities allowed to lower the MDL).
(3) Performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or
operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests. Performance tests must be conducted under operating conditions (including process or production throughputs) that are based on representative performance. Record and report to the permit authority the process throughput for each test run. For sources with multiple emission units (
e.g.,
two roasters, or a furnace, electrowinning circuit and a mercury retort) ducted to a common control device and stack, compliance testing must be performed either by conducting a single compliance test with all affected emissions units in operation or by conducting a separate compliance test on each emissions unit. Alternatively, the owner or operator may request approval from the permit authority for an alternative testing approach. If the units are tested separately, any emissions unit that is not tested initially must be tested as soon as is practicable. If the performance test is conducted when all affected units are operating, then the number of hours of operation used for calculating emissions pursuant to paragraphs (a)(6) and (7) of this section must be the total number of hours for the unit that has the greatest total operating hours for that period of time, or based on an appropriate alternative method approved by the permit authority to account for the hours of operation for each separate unit in these calculations.
(4) Calculate the mercury emission rate (lb/hr), based on the average of 3 test run values, for each process unit (or combination of units that are ducted to a common stack and are tested when all affected sources are operating pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section) using Equation (1) of this section:
ER17FE11.003
Where:
E = mercury emissions in lb/hr;
Cs = concentration of mercury in the stack gas, in grains per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf);
Qs = volumetric flow rate of the stack gas, in dry standard cubic feet per hour; and
K = conversion factor for grains (gr) to pounds (lb), 1.43 × 10
−4
.
(5) Monitor and record the number of one-hour periods each process unit operates during each month.
(6) For the initial compliance determination for both new and existing sources, determine the total mercury emissions for all the full calendar months between the compliance date and the date of the initial compliance test by multiplying the emission rate in lb/hr for each process unit (or combination of units ducted to a common stack that are tested together) by the number of one-hour periods each process unit (or the unit that had the greatest total operating hours among the combination of multiple units with one stack that are tested together, or an alternative method approved by the permit authority, pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section) operated during those full calendar months prior to the initial compliance test. This initial period must include at least 1 full month of operations. After the initial compliance test, for subsequent compliance tests, determine the mercury mass emissions for the 12 full calendar months prior to the compliance test in accordance with the procedures in paragraph (a)(7) of this section. Existing sources may use a previous emission test for their initial compliance determination in lieu of conducting a new test if the test was conducted within one year of the compliance date using the methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section, and the tests were representative of current operating processes and conditions. If a previous test is used for their initial compliance determination, 3 to 12 full months of data on hours of operation and production (
i.e.,
million
tons of ore or tons of concentrate), including the month the test was conducted, must be used to calculate the emissions rate (in units of pounds of mercury per million tons of ore for the ore pretreatment affected sources, or in units of pounds of mercury per tons of concentrate for the other affected sources).
(7) For compliance determinations following the initial compliance test for new and existing sources, determine the total mercury mass emissions for each process unit for the 12 full calendar months preceding the performance test by multiplying the emission rate in lb/hr for each process unit (or combination of units ducted to a common stack that are tested together) by the number of one-hour periods each process unit (or the unit that had the greatest total operating hours among the combination of multiple units with one stack that are tested together, or an alternative method approved by the permit authority, pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section) operated during the 12 full calendar months preceding the completion of the performance tests.
(8) You must install, calibrate, maintain and operate an appropriate weight measurement device, mass flow meter, or densitometer and volumetric flow meter to measure ore throughput for each roasting operation and autoclave and calculate hourly, daily and monthly totals in tons of ore according to paragraphs (a)(8)(i) and (a)(8)(ii) of this section.
(i) Measure the weight or the density and volumetric flow rate of the oxidized ore slurry as it exits the roaster oxidation circuit(s) and before the carbon-in-leach tanks. Alternatively, the weight of the ore can be measured “as fed” if approved by the permit authority as an acceptable equivalent method to measure amount of ore processed.
(ii) Measure the weight or the density and volumetric flow rate of the ore slurry as it is fed to the autoclave(s). Alternatively, the weight or the density and volumetric flow rate of the oxidized ore slurry can be measured as it exits the autoclave and before the carbon-in-leach tanks if approved by the permit authority as an acceptable equivalent method to measure amount of ore processed.
(9) Measure the weight of concentrate (produced by electrowinning, Merrill Crowe process, gravity feed, or other methods) using weigh scales for each batch prior to processing in mercury retorts or melt furnaces. For facilities with mercury retorts, the concentrate must be weighed in the same state and condition as it is when fed to the mercury retort. For facilities without mercury retorts, the concentrate must be weighed prior to being fed to the melt furnace before drying in any ovens. For facilities that ship concentrate offsite, measure the weight of concentrate as shipped offsite. You must keep accurate records of the weights of each batch of concentrate processed and calculate, and record the total weight of concentrate processed each month.
(10) You must maintain the systems for measuring density, volumetric flow rate, and weight within ±5 percent accuracy. You must describe the specific equipment used to make measurements at your facility and how that equipment is periodically calibrated. You must also explain, document, and maintain written procedures for determining the accuracy of the measurements and make these written procedures available to your permitting authority upon request. You must determine, record, and maintain a record of the accuracy of the measuring systems before the beginning of your initial compliance test and during each subsequent quarter of affected source operation.
(11) Record the weight in tons of ore for ore pretreatment processes and concentrate for carbon processes with mercury retorts, carbon processes without mercury retorts, and for non-carbon concentrate processes on a daily and monthly basis.
(12) Calculate the emissions from each new and existing affected source for the sum of all full months between the compliance date and the date of the initial compliance test in pounds of mercury per ton of process input using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(12)(i) through (a)(12)(iv) of this section to determine initial compliance with the emission standards in § 63.11645. This must include at least 1 full month of
data. Or, if a previous test is used pursuant to paragraph (a)(6) of this section for the initial compliance test, use a period of time pursuant to paragraph (a)(6) of this section to calculate the emissions for the affected source. After this initial compliance test period, determine annual compliance using the procedures in paragraph (a)(13) of this section for existing sources.
(i) For ore pretreatment processes, divide the sum of mercury mass emissions (in pounds) from all roasting operations and autoclaves during the number of full months between the compliance date and the initial compliance test by the sum of the total amount of gold mine ore processed (in million tons) in these process units during those same full months following the compliance date. Or, if a previous test is used to determine initial compliance, pursuant to paragraph (a)(6) of this section, then the same 3 to 12 full months of production data (
i.e.,
million tons of ore) and hours of operation referred to in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, must be used to determine the emissions in pounds of mercury per million tons of ore.
(ii) For carbon processes with mercury retorts, divide the sum of mercury mass emissions (in pounds) from all carbon kilns, preg tanks, electrowinning, mercury retorts, and melt furnaces during the initial number of full months between the compliance date and the initial compliance tests by the total amount of concentrate (in tons) processed in these process units during those same full months following the compliance date. If a previous test is used to determine initial compliance, pursuant to paragraph (a)(6) of this section, then the same 3 to 12 full months of production data (
i.e.,
tons of concentrate) and hours of operation referred to in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, must be used to determine the emissions in pounds of mercury per tons of concentrate.
(iii) For carbon processes without mercury retorts, divide the sum of mercury mass emissions (in pounds) from all carbon kilns, preg tanks, electrowinning, and melt furnaces during the initial number of full months between the compliance date and the initial compliance tests by the total amount of concentrate (in tons) processed in these process units during those same full months following the compliance date. If a previous test is used to determine initial compliance, pursuant to paragraph (a)(6) of this section, then the same 3 to 12 full months of production data (
i.e.,
tons of concentrate) and hours of operation referred to in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, must be used to determine the emissions in pounds of mercury per tons of concentrate.
(iv) For non-carbon concentrate processes, divide the sum of mercury mass emissions (in pounds) from mercury retorts and melt furnaces during the initial number of full months between the compliance date and the initial compliance tests by the total amount of concentrate (in tons) processed in these process units during those same full months following the compliance date. If a previous test is used to determine initial compliance, pursuant to paragraph (a)(6) of this section, then the same 3 to 12 full months of production data (
i.e.,
tons of concentrate) and hours of operation referred to in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, must be used to determine the emissions in pounds of mercury per tons of concentrate.
(13) After the initial compliance test, calculate the emissions from each new and existing affected source for each 12-month period preceding each subsequent compliance test in pounds of mercury per ton of process input using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(13)(i) through (iv) of this section to determine compliance with the emission standards in § 63.11645.
(i) For ore pretreatment processes, divide the sum of mercury mass emissions (in pounds) from all roasting operations and autoclaves in the 12-month period preceding a compliance test by the sum of the total amount of gold mine ore processed (in million tons) in that 12-month period.
(ii) For carbon processes with mercury retorts, divide the sum of mercury mass emissions (in pounds) from all carbon kilns, preg tanks, electrowinning, mercury retorts, and melt furnaces in the 12-month period preceding a compliance test by the
total amount of concentrate (in tons) processed in these process units in that 12-month period.
(iii) For carbon processes without mercury retorts, divide the sum of mercury mass emissions (in pounds) from all carbon kilns, preg tanks, electrowinning, and melt furnaces in the 12-month period preceding a compliance test by the total amount of concentrate (in tons) processed in these process units in that 12-month period.
(iv) For non-carbon concentrate processes, divide the sum of mercury mass emissions (in pounds) from mercury retorts and melt furnaces in the 12-month period preceding a compliance test by the total amount of concentrate (in tons) processed in these process units in that 12-month period.
(b) At all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
§ 63.11647
What are my monitoring requirements?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, you must monitor each roaster for mercury emissions using one of the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section and establish operating limits for mercury concentration as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(1) Perform sampling and analysis of the roaster's exhaust for mercury concentration using EPA Performance Specification 12B (40 CFR part 60, appendix B and Procedure 5 of appendix F) or EPA Method 30B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8) at least twice per month. A minimum of two measurements must be taken per month that are at least 11 days apart from other consecutive tests. The mercury concentration must be maintained below the operating limit established in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. The results of the sampling must be obtained within 72 hours of the time the sample is taken.
(i) To determine the appropriate sampling duration, you must review the available data from previous stack tests to determine the upper 99th percentile of the range of mercury concentrations in the exit stack gas. Based on this upper end of expected concentrations, select an appropriate sampling duration that is likely to provide a valid sample and not result in breakthrough of the sampling tubes. If breakthrough of the sampling tubes occurs, you must re-sample within 7 days using a shorter sampling duration.
(ii) If any mercury concentration measurement from the twice per month sampling with PS 12B or Method 30B is higher than the operating limit, the exceedance must be reported to the permit authority as a deviation and corrective actions must be implemented within 48 hours upon receipt of the sampling results. Moreover, within 96 hours of the exceedance, the owner or operator must measure the concentration again (with PS 12B (40 CFR part 60, appendix B and Procedure 5 of appendix F), Method 30B or Method 29 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8), or ASTM D6784(incorporated by reference—see § 63.14)) and demonstrate to the permit authority that the mercury concentration is no higher than the operating limit, or inform the permit authority that the limit continues to be exceeded. If the measured mercury concentration exceeds the operating limit for mercury concentration after these 96 hours, the exceedance must be reported as a deviation within 24 hours to the permitting authority. The owner or operator must conduct a full compliance test pursuant to § 63.11646(a) for the roaster operations within 40 days to determine if the affected source is in compliance with the MACT emission standard. For facilities that have roasters and autoclaves, the owner or operator can use the results of the previous compliance test for the autoclaves to determine the emissions for those process units to be used in the calculations of the emissions for
the affected source. If the source is determined to be in compliance, the compliance test may also be used to establish a new operating limit for mercury concentration (in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section).
(2) Install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) to continuously measure the mercury concentration in the final exhaust stream from each roaster according to the requirements of Performance Specification 12A (40 CFR part 60, appendix B) except that calibration standards traceable to the National Institute of Standards and Technology are not required. You must perform a data accuracy assessment of the CEMS according to section 5 of Appendix F in part 60 and follow the applicable monitoring requirements in § 63.8 as provided in Table 1 to subpart EEEEEEE.
(i) You must continuously monitor the daily average mercury concentration from the roaster and maintain the daily average concentration below the operating limit established in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(ii) If the daily average mercury concentration from the CEMs is higher than the operating limit, the exceedance must be reported to the permit authority as a deviation and corrective actions must be implemented within 48 hours upon receipt of the sampling results. Moreover, within 96 hours of the exceedance, the owner or operator must measure the concentration again (with the CEMs (40 CFR part 60, appendix B and Procedure 5 of appendix F) and demonstrate to the permit authority that the mercury concentration is no higher than the operating limit, or inform the permit authority that the limit continues to be exceeded. If the measured mercury concentration exceeds the operating limit for mercury concentration after these 96 hours, the exceedance must be reported as a deviation within 24 hours to the permitting authority, and the owner or operator must conduct a full compliance test pursuant to § 63.11646(a) for the roaster operations within 40 days to determine if the affected source is in compliance with the MACT emission standard. For facilities that have roasters and autoclaves, the owner or operator can use the results of the previous compliance test for the autoclaves to determine the emissions for those process units to be used in the calculations of the emissions for the affected source. If the source is determined to be in compliance, the compliance test results may also be used to establish a new operating limit for mercury concentration (in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section).
(iii) You must submit a monitoring plan that includes quality assurance and quality control (QA/QC) procedures sufficient to demonstrate the accuracy of the CEMS to your permitting authority for approval 180 days prior to your initial compliance test. At a minimum, the QA/QC procedures must include daily calibrations and an annual accuracy test for the CEMS.
(3) Continuously measure the mercury concentration in the final exhaust stream from each roaster using EPA Performance Specification 12B (40 CFR part 60 appendix B and Procedure 5 of appendix F).
(i) You must continuously measure the mercury concentration in the roaster exhaust and maintain the average daily mercury concentration below the operating limit established in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. To determine the appropriate sampling duration, you must review the available data from previous stack tests to determine the upper 99th percentile of the range of mercury concentrations in the exit stack gas. Based on this upper end of expected concentrations, select an appropriate sampling duration that is likely to provide a valid sample and not result in breakthrough of the sampling tubes. If breakthrough of the sampling tubes occurs, you must re-sample within 7 days using a shorter sampling duration.
(ii) If the daily average mercury concentration is higher than the operating limit, the exceedance must be reported to the permit authority as a deviation and corrective actions must be implemented within 48 hours upon receipt of the sampling results. Moreover, within 96 hours of the exceedance, the owner or operator must measure the concentration again with PS 12B (40 CFR part 60, appendix B and Procedure 5 of appendix F), Method 30B or Method 29
(40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8), or ASTM D6784(incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) and demonstrate to the permit authority that the mercury concentration is no higher than the operating limit, or inform the permit authority that the limit continues to be exceeded. If the measured mercury concentration exceeds the operating limit for mercury concentration after these 96 hours, the exceedance must be reported as a deviation within 24 hours to the permitting authority and the owner or operator must conduct a full compliance test pursuant to § 63.11646(a) for the roaster operations within 40 days to determine if the affected source is in compliance with the MACT emission standard. For facilities that have roasters and autoclaves, the owner or operator can use the results of the previous compliance test for the autoclaves to determine the emissions for those process units to be used in the calculations of the emissions for the affected source. If the source is determined to be in compliance, the compliance test results may also be used to establish a new operating limit for mercury concentration (in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section).
(4) Use Equation (2) of this section to establish an upper operating limit for mercury concentration as determined by using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section concurrently while you are conducting your annual compliance performance stack tests according to the procedures in § 63.11646(a).
ER17FE11.004
Where:
OLR = mercury concentration operating limit for the roaster (or roasters that share a common stack) (in micrograms per cubic meter);
C
test
= average mercury concentration measured by the monitoring procedures (PS 12A or PS 12B or 30B) during the compliance performance stack test (in micrograms per cubic meter);
EL = emission standard for ore pretreatment processes (in lb/million tons of ore);
CT = compliance test results for ore pretreatment processes (in lb/million tons of ore).
(5) For roasters that utilize calomel-based mercury control systems for emissions controls, you are not required to perform the monitoring for mercury emissions in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section if you demonstrate to the satisfaction of your permitting authority that mercury emissions from the roaster are less than 10 pounds of mercury per million tons of ore throughput. If you make this demonstration, you must conduct the parametric monitoring as described below in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(i) The initial demonstration must include three or more consecutive independent stack tests for mercury at least one month apart on the roaster exhaust stacks. Subsequent demonstrations may be based upon the single stack test required in paragraph (a) of section § 63.11646. The results of each of the tests must be less than 10 pounds of mercury per million tons of ore. The testing must be performed according to the procedures in § 63.11646(a)(1) through (a)(4) to determine mercury emissions in pounds per hour.
(ii) Divide the mercury emission rate in pounds per hour by the ore throughput rate during the test expressed in millions of tons per hour to determine the emissions in pounds per million tons of ore.
(b) For facilities with roasters and a calomel-based mercury control system that choose to monitor for mercury emissions using the procedures in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or that qualify for and choose to follow the requirements in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, you must establish operating parameter limits for scrubber liquor flow (or line pressure) and scrubber inlet gas temperature and monitor these parameters. You may establish your operating parameter limits from the initial compliance test, according to the manufacturer's specifications, or based on limits established by the permitting authority. If you choose to establish
your operating parameter limits from the initial compliance test, monitor the scrubber liquor flow (or line pressure) and scrubber inlet gas temperature during each run of your initial compliance test. The minimum operating limit for scrubber liquor flow rate (or line pressure) is either the lowest value during any run of the initial compliance test or 10 percent less than the average value measured during the compliance test, and your maximum scrubber inlet temperature limit is the highest temperature measured during any run of the initial compliance test or 10 percent higher than the average value measured during the compliance test. You must monitor the scrubber liquor flow rate (or line pressure) and scrubber inlet gas temperature hourly and maintain the scrubber liquor flow (or line pressure) at or above the established operating parameter and maintain the inlet gas temperature below the established operating parameter limit.
(c) For facilities with roasters and a calomel-based mercury control system that choose to monitor for mercury emissions using the procedures in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or that qualify for and follow the requirements in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, you must establish operating parameter ranges for mercuric ion and chloride ion concentrations or for oxidation reduction potential and pH using the procedures in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section respectively.
(1) Establish the mercuric ion concentration and chloride ion concentration ranges for each calomel-based mercury control system. The mercuric ion concentration and chloride ion concentration ranges for each calomel-based mercury control system must be based on the manufacturer's specifications, or based on approval by your permitting authority. Measure the mercuric ion concentration and chloride ion concentrations at least once during each run of your initial compliance test. The measurements must be within the established concentration range for mercuric ion concentration and chloride ion concentration. Subsequently, you must sample at least once daily and maintain the mercuric ion concentration and chloride ion concentrations within their established range.
(2) Establish the oxidation reduction potential and pH range for each calomel-based mercury control system. The oxidation reduction potential and pH range for each calomel-based mercury control system must be based on the manufacturer's specifications, or based on approval by your permitting authority. Install monitoring equipment to continuously monitor the oxidation reduction potential and pH of the calomel-based mercury control system scrubber liquor. Measure the oxidation reduction potential and pH of the scrubber liquor during each run of your initial compliance test. The measurements must be within the established range for oxidation reduction potential and pH. Subsequently, you must monitor the oxidation reduction potential and pH of the scrubber liquor continuously and maintain it within the established operating range.
(d) If you have an exceedance of a control device operating parameter range provided in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section, you must take corrective action and bring the parameters back into the established parametric ranges. If the corrective actions taken following an exceedance do not result in the operating parameter value being returned within the established range within 48 hours, a mercury concentration measurement (with PS 12B or PS 12A CEMS (40 CFR part 60, appendix B and Procedure 5 of appendix F), Method 30B or Method 29 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8), or ASTM D6784 (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14)) must be made to determine if the operating limit for mercury concentration is being exceeded. The measurement must be performed and the mercury concentration determined within 48 hours (after the initial 48 hours, or a total of 96 hours from the time the parameter range was exceeded). If the measured mercury concentration meets the operating limit for mercury concentration established under § 63.11647(a)(4), the corrective actions are deemed successful, and the owner or operator can request the permit authority to establish a new limit or range for the parameter. If the measured mercury concentration exceeds
the operating limit for mercury concentration after these 96 hours, the exceedance must be reported as a deviation within 24 hours to the permitting authority and the owner or operator must conduct a full compliance test pursuant to § 63.11646(a) for the roaster operations within 40 days to determine if the affected source is in compliance with the MACT emission standard. For facilities that have roasters and autoclaves, the owner or operator can use the results of the previous compliance test for the autoclaves to determine the emissions for those process units to be used in the calculations of the emissions for the affected source. If the source is determined to be in compliance with the MACT emission standard, the compliance test may also be used to establish a new operating limit for mercury concentration (see paragraph (e) of this section).
(e) You may submit a request to your permitting authority for approval to change the operating limits established under paragraph (a)(4) of this section for the monitoring required in paragraph (a)(1),(a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section. In the request, you must demonstrate that the proposed change to the operating limit detects changes in levels of mercury emission control. An approved change to the operating limit under this paragraph only applies until a new operating limit is established during the next annual compliance test.
(f) You must monitor each process unit at each new and existing affected source that uses a carbon adsorber to control mercury emissions using the procedures in paragraphs (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this section. A carbon adsorber may include a fixed carbon bed, carbon filter packs or modules, carbon columns, and other variations.
(1) Continuously sample and analyze the exhaust stream from the carbon adsorber for mercury using Method 30B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8) for a duration of at least the minimum sampling time specified in Method 30B and up to one week that includes the period of the annual performance test.
(i) Establish an upper operating limit for the process as determined using the mercury concentration measurements from the sorbent trap (Method 30B) as calculated from Equation (3) of this section.
ER17FE11.005
Where:
OLC = mercury concentration operating limit for the carbon adsorber control device on the process as measured using the sorbent trap, (micrograms per cubic meter);
C
trap
= average mercury concentration measured using the sorbent trap during the week that includes the compliance performance test, (micrograms per cubic meter);
EL = emission standard for the affected sources (lb/ton of concentrate);
CT = compliance test results for the affected sources (lb/ton of concentrate).
(ii) Sample and analyze the exhaust stream from the carbon adsorber for mercury at least monthly using Method 30B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8). When the mercury concentration reaches 75 percent of the operating limit, begin weekly sampling and analysis. When the mercury concentration reaches 90 percent of the operating limit, replace the carbon in the carbon adsorber within 30 days. If mercury concentration exceeds the operating limit, change the carbon in the carbon adsorber within 30 days and report the deviation to your permitting authority.
(2) Conduct an initial sampling of the carbon in the carbon bed for mercury 90 days after the replacement of the carbon. A representative sample must be collected from the inlet of the bed and the exit of the bed and analyzed using SW-846 Method 7471B (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14). The depth to which the sampler is inserted must be recorded. The design capacity is established by calculating the average carbon loading from the inlet and outlet measurements. Sampling and analysis of the carbon bed for mercury
must be performed quarterly thereafter. When the carbon loading reaches 50 percent of the design capacity of the carbon, monthly sampling must be performed until 90 percent of the carbon loading capacity is reached. The carbon must be removed and replaced with fresh carbon no later than 30 days after reaching 90 percent of capacity. For carbon designs where there may be multiple carbon columns or beds, a representative sample may be collected from the first and last column or bed instead of the inlet or outlet. If the carbon loading exceeds the design capacity of the carbon, change the carbon within 30 days and report the deviation to your permitting authority.
(g) You must monitor gas stream temperature at the inlet to the carbon adsorber for each process unit (
i.e.,
carbon kiln, melt furnace,
etc.
) equipped with a carbon adsorber. Establish a maximum value for the inlet temperature either during the annual performance test (required in § 63.11646(a)), according to the manufacturer's specifications, or as approved by your permitting authority. If you choose to establish the temperature operating limit during the performance test, establish the temperature operating limit based on either the highest reading during the test or at 10 °F higher than the average temperature measured during the performance test. Monitor the inlet temperature once per shift. If an inlet temperature exceeds the temperature operating limit, you must take corrective actions to get the temperature back within the parameter operating limit within 48 hours. If the exceedance persists, within 144 hours of the exceedance, you must sample and analyze the exhaust stream from the carbon adsorber using Method 30B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8) and compare to an operating limit (calculated pursuant to (f)(1)(i)) or you must conduct carbon sampling pursuant to (f)(2) of this section. If the concentration measured with Method 30B is below 90 percent of the operating limit or the carbon sampling results are below 90 percent of the carbon loading capacity, you may set a new temperature operating limit 10 °F above the previous operating limit or at an alternative level approved by your permit authority. If the concentration is above 90 percent of the operating limit or above 90 percent of the carbon loading capacity you must change the carbon in the bed within 30 days and report the event to your permitting authority, and reestablish an appropriate maximum temperature limit based on approval of your permit authority.
(h) For each wet scrubber at each new and existing affected source not followed by a mercury control system, you must monitor the water flow rate (or line pressure) and pressure drop. Establish a minimum value as the operating limit for water flow rate (or line pressure) and pressure drop either during the performance test required in § 63.11646(a), according to the manufacturer's specifications, or as approved by your permitting authority. If you choose to establish the operating limit based on the results of the performance test, the new operating limit must be established based on either the lowest value during any test run or 10 percent less than the average value measured during the test. For wet scrubbers on an autoclave, establish the pressure drop range according to manufacturer's specifications. You must monitor the water flow rate and pressure drop once per shift and take corrective action within 24 hours if any daily average is less than the operating limit. If the parameters are not in range within 72 hours, the owner or operator must report the deviation to the permitting authority and perform a compliance test for the process unit(s) controlled with the wet scrubber that has the parameter exceedance within 40 days to determine if the affected source is in compliance with the MACT limit. For the other process units included in the affected source, the owner or operator can use the results of the previous compliance test to determine the emissions for those process units to be used in the calculations of the emissions for the affected source.
(i) You may conduct additional compliance tests according to the procedures in § 63.11646 and re-establish the operating limits required in paragraphs (a) through (c) and (f) through (h) of this section at any time. You must submit a request to your permitting authority for approval to re-establish
the operating limits. In the request, you must demonstrate that the proposed change to the operating limit detects changes in levels of mercury emission control. An approved change to the operating limit under this paragraph only applies until a new operating limit is established during the next annual compliance test.
§ 63.11648
What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?
(a) You must submit the Initial Notification required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than 120 calendar days after the date of publication of the final rule in the
Federal Register
or within 120 days after the source becomes subject to the standard. The Initial Notification must include the information specified in § 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iv).
(b) You must submit an initial Notification of Compliance Status as required by § 63.9(h).
(c) If a deviation occurs during a semiannual reporting period, you must submit a deviation report to your permitting authority according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The first reporting period covers the period beginning on the compliance date specified in § 63.11641 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date comes first after your compliance date. Each subsequent reporting period covers the semiannual period from January 1 through June 30 or from July 1 through December 31. Your deviation report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date comes first after the end of the semiannual reporting period.
(2) A deviation report must include the information in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iv) of this section.
(i) Company name and address.
(ii) Statement by a responsible official, with the official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy and completeness of the content of the report.
(iii) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(iv) Identification of the affected source, the pollutant being monitored, applicable requirement, description of deviation, and corrective action taken.
(d) If you had a malfunction during the reporting period, the compliance report required in § 63.11648(b) must include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.11646(b), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.
(e) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section. The form and maintenance of records must be consistent with the requirements in section 63.10(b)(1) of the General Provisions.
(1) As required in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), you must keep a copy of each notification that you submitted to comply with this subpart and all documentation supporting any Initial Notification, Notification of Compliance Status, and semiannual compliance certifications that you submitted.
(2) You must keep the records of all performance tests, measurements, monitoring data, and corrective actions required by §§ 63.11646 and 63.11647, and the information identified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(vi) of this section for each corrective action required by § 63.11647.
(i) The date, place, and time of the monitoring event requiring corrective action;
(ii) Technique or method used for monitoring;
(iv) Operating conditions during the activity;
(v) Results, including the date, time, and duration of the period from the time the monitoring indicated a problem to the time that monitoring indicated proper operation; and
(vi) Maintenance or corrective action taken (if applicable).
(3) You must keep records of operating hours for each process as required by § 63.11646(a)(5) and records of the monthly quantity of ore and concentrate processed or produced as required by § 63.11646(a)(10).
(f) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1). As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each recorded action. You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each recorded action according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.
(g) After December 31, 2011, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance evaluation conducted to demonstrate compliance with this subpart, the owner or operator of the affected facility must submit the test data to EPA by entering the data electronically into EPA's WebFIRE data base through EPA's Central Data Exchange. The owner or operator of an affected facility shall enter the test data into EPA's data base using the Electronic Reporting Tool or other compatible electronic spreadsheet. Only performance evaluation data collected using methods compatible with ERT are subject to this requirement to be submitted electronically into EPA's WebFIRE database.

# Other Requirements and Information
§ 63.11650
What General Provisions apply to this subpart?
Table 1 to this subpart shows which parts of the General Provisions in §§ 63.1 through 63.16 apply to you.
§ 63.11651
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in § 63.2, and in this section as follows:
Autoclave
means a pressure oxidation vessel that is used to treat gold ores (primarily sulfide refractory ore) and involves pumping a slurry of milled ore into the vessel which is highly pressurized with oxygen and heated to temperatures of approximately 350° to 430 °F.
Calomel-based mercury control system
means a mercury emissions control system that uses scrubbers to remove mercury from the gas stream of a roaster or combination of roasters by complexing the mercury from the gas stream with mercuric chloride to form mercurous chloride (calomel). These scrubbers are also referred to as “mercury scrubbers.”
Carbon adsorber
means a control device consisting of a single fixed carbon bed, multiple carbon beds or columns, carbon filter packs or modules, and other variations that uses activated carbon to remove pollutants from a gas stream.
Carbon kiln
means a kiln or furnace where carbon is regenerated by heating, usually in the presence of steam, after the gold has been stripped from the carbon.
Carbon processes with mercury retorts
means the affected source that includes carbon kilns, preg tanks, electrowinning cells, mercury retorts, and melt furnaces at gold mine ore processing and production facilities that use activated carbon, or resins that can be used as a substitute for activated carbon, to recover (adsorb) gold from the pregnant cyanide solution.
Carbon processes without mercury retorts
means the affected source that includes carbon kilns, preg tanks, electrowinning cells, and melt furnaces, but has no retorts, at gold mine ore processing and production facilities that use activated carbon, or resins that can be used as a substitute for activated carbon, to recover (adsorb) gold from the pregnant cyanide solution.
Concentrate
means the sludge-like material that is loaded with gold along with various other metals (such as silver, copper, and mercury) and various other substances, that is produced by electrowinning, the Merrill-Crowe process, flotation and gravity separation processes.
Concentrate
is measured as the input to mercury retorts, or for facilities without mercury retorts, as the input to melt furnaces before any drying takes place. For facilities without mercury retorts or melt furnaces,
concentrate
is measured as the quantity shipped.
Deviation
means any instance where an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:
(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emissions limitation or work practice standard;
(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or
(3) Exceeds any operating limit established under this subpart.
Electrowinning
means a process that uses induced voltage on anode and cathode plates to remove metals from the continuous flow of solution, where the gold in solution is plated onto the cathode. Steel wool is typically used as the plating surface.
Electrowinning Cells
means a tank in which the electrowinning takes place.
Gold mine ore processing and production facility
means any industrial facility engaged in the processing of gold mine ore that uses any of the following processes: Roasting operations, autoclaves, carbon kilns, preg tanks, electrowinning, mercury retorts, or melt furnaces. Laboratories (see CAA section 112(c)(7)), individual prospectors, and very small pilot scale mining operations that processes or produces less than 100 pounds of concentrate per year are not a gold mine ore processing and production facility. A facility that produces primarily metals other than gold, such as copper, lead, zinc, or nickel (where these metals other than gold comprise 95 percent or more of the total metal production) that may also recover some gold as a byproduct is not a gold mine ore processing and production facility. Those facilities whereby 95 percent or more of total mass of metals produced are metals other than gold, whether final metal production is onsite or offsite, are not part of the gold mine ore processing and production source category.
Melt furnace
means a furnace (typically a crucible furnace) that is used for smelting the gold-bearing material recovered from mercury retorting, or the gold-bearing material from electrowinning, the Merrill-Crowe process, or other processes for facilities without mercury retorts.
Mercury retort
means a vessel that is operated under a partial vacuum at approximately 1,100° to 1,300 °F to remove mercury and moisture from the gold bearing sludge material that is recovered from electrowinning, the Merrill-Crowe process, or other processes. Mercury retorts are usually equipped with condensers that recover liquid mercury during the processing.
Merrill-Crowe process
means a precipitation technique using zinc oxide for removing gold from a cyanide solution. Zinc dust is added to the solution, and gold is precipitated to produce a concentrate.
Non-carbon concentrate processes
means the affected source that includes mercury retorts and melt furnaces at gold mine ore processing and production facilities that use the Merrill-Crowe process or other processes and do not use carbon (or resins that substitute for carbon) to recover (adsorb) gold from the pregnant cyanide solution.
Ore dry grinding
means a process in which the gold ore is ground and heated (dried) prior to additional preheating or prior to entering the roaster.
Ore preheating
means a process in which ground gold ore is preheated prior to entering the roaster.
Ore pretreatment processes
means the affected source that includes roasting operations and autoclaves that are used to pre-treat gold mine ore at gold mine ore processing and production facilities prior to the cyanide leaching process.
Pregnant solution tank (or preg tank)
means a storage tank for pregnant solution, which is the cyanide solution that contains gold-cyanide complexes that is generated from leaching gold ore with cyanide solution.
Pregnant cyanide solution
means the cyanide solution that contains gold-cyanide complexes that are generated from leaching gold ore with a dilute cyanide solution.
Quenching
means a process in which the hot calcined ore is cooled and quenched with water after it leaves the roaster.
Roasting operation
means a process that uses an industrial furnace in which milled ore is combusted across a fluidized bed to oxidize and remove organic carbon and sulfide mineral grains in refractory gold ore. The emissions points of the roasting operation subject
to this subpart include ore dry grinding, ore preheating, the roaster stack, and quenching.
§ 63.11652
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority, such as your state, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your state, local, or tribal agency, then that agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your state, local, or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a state, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the state, local, or tribal agency.
(c) The authorities that will not be delegated to state, local, or tribal agencies are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the applicability requirements in § 63.11640, the compliance date requirements in § 63.11641, and the applicable standards in § 63.11645.
(2) Approval of an alternative nonopacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g).
(3) Approval of a major change to a test method under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A “major change to test method” is defined in § 63.90(a).
(4) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in § 63.90(a).
(5) Approval of a waiver of recordkeeping or reporting requirements under § 63.10(f), or another major change to recordkeeping/reporting. A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in § 63.90(a).
§ 63.11653
[Reserved]
Pt. 63, Subpt. EEEEEEE, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart EEEEEEE of Part 63—Applicability of General Provisions to Subpart EEEEEE
As stated in § 63.11650, you must comply with the applicable General Provisions requirements according to the following table
Citation
Subject
Applies to
subpart EEEEEEE
Explanation
§ 63.1(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6), (a)(10)-(a)(12), (b)(1), (b)(3), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)
Applicability
Yes
§ 63.1(a)(5), (a)(7)-(a)(9), (b)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d)
Reserved
No
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes
§ 63.3
Units and Abbreviations
Yes
§ 63.4
Prohibited Activities and Circumvention
Yes
§ 63.5
Preconstruction Review and Notification Requirements
Yes
§ 63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (b)(7), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)(1)(iii), (f)(2), (f)(3), (g), (i), (j)
Compliance with Standards and Maintenance Requirements
Yes
§ 63.6(e)(1)(i) and (ii), (e)(3), and (f)(1)
Startup, Shutdown and Malfunction Requirements (SSM)
No
Subpart EEEEEEE standards apply at all times.
§ 63.6(h)(1), (h)(2), (h)(4),(h)(5)(i), (ii), (iii) and (v), (h)(6)-(h)(9)
Compliance with Opacity and Visible Emission Limits
No
Subpart EEEEEEE does not contain opacity or visible emission limits.
§ 63.6(b)(6), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(2), (e)(3)(ii), (h)(3), (h)(5)(iv)
Reserved
No
§ 63.7, except (e)(1)
Applicability and Performance Test Dates
Yes
§ 63.7(e)(1)
Performance Testing Requirements Related to SSM
No
§ 63.8(a)(1), (b)(1), (f)(1)-(5), (g)
Monitoring Requirements
Yes
§ 63.8(a)(2), (a)(4), (b)(2)-(3), (c), (d), (e), (f)(6), (g)
Continuous Monitoring Systems
Yes
Except cross references to SSM requirements in § 63.6(e)(1) and (3) do not apply.
§ 63.8(a)(3)
[Reserved]
No
§ 63.9(a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(i)-(v), (b)(4), (b)(5), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h)(1)-(h)(3), (h)(5), (h)(6), (i), (j)
Notification Requirements
Yes
§ 63.9(f)
No
§ 63.9(b)(3), (h)(4)
Reserved
No
§ 63.10(a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(vi)-(xiv), (b)(3), (c), (d)(1)-(4), (e), (f)
Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
Yes
§ 63.10(b)(2)(i)-(v), (d)(5)
Recordkeeping/Reporting Associated with SSM
No
§ 63.10(c)(2)-(c)(4), (c)(9)
Reserved
No
§ 63.11
Control Device Requirements
No
§ 63.12
State Authority and Delegations
Yes
§§ 63.13-63.16
Addresses, Incorporation by Reference, Availability of Information, Performance Track Provisions
Yes
Subparts FFFFFFF and GGGGGGG [Reserved]

# Subpart HHHHHHH—National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production

# Source:
77 FR 22906, Apr. 17, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# What This Subpart Covers
§ 63.11860
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart establishes national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants emitted from the production of polyvinyl chloride and copolymers at major sources. This subpart also establishes requirements to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the emission standards.
§ 63.11865
Am I subject to the requirements in this subpart?
You are subject to the requirements in this subpart if you own or operate one or more polyvinyl chloride and copolymers production process units (PVCPU) as defined in § 63.12005 that are located at, or are part of, a major source of hazardous air pollutants (HAP) emissions as defined in § 63.2. The requirements of this subpart do not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act, or to chemical manufacturing process units, as defined in § 63.101, that produce vinyl chloride monomer or other raw materials used in the production of polyvinyl chloride and copolymers.
§ 63.11870
What is the affected source of this subpart?
(a) This subpart applies to each polyvinyl chloride and copolymers production affected source.
(b) The polyvinyl chloride and copolymers production affected source is the facility wide collection of PVCPU, storage vessels, heat exchange systems, surge control vessels, wastewater and process wastewater treatment systems that are associated with producing polyvinyl chloride and copolymers.
(c) An existing affected source is one for which construction was commenced on or before May 20, 2011, at a major source.
(d) A new affected source is one for which construction is commenced after May 20, 2011, at a major source.
(e) If components of an existing affected source are replaced such that
the replacement meets the definition of reconstruction in § 63.2 and the reconstruction commenced after May 20, 2011, then the existing affected source becomes a reconstructed source and is subject to the relevant standards for a new affected source. The reconstructed source must comply with the requirements for a new affected source upon initial startup of the reconstructed source or by April 17, 2012, whichever is later.
§ 63.11871
What is the relationship to 40 CFR part 61, subpart F?
After the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11875(a), (b) or (c), an affected source that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart F, is required to comply with the provisions of this subpart and no longer has to comply with 40 CFR part 61, subpart F.
§ 63.11872
What is the relationship to other subparts in this part?
After the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11875(a), (b) or (c), an affected source that is also subject to the provisions of other subparts in 40 CFR part 60 or this part is required to comply with this subpart and any other applicable subparts in 40 CFR part 60 or this part.
§ 63.11875
When must I comply with this subpart?
(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart no later than April 17, 2015. On or after April 17, 2015, any such existing affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart F.
(b) If you start up a new affected source on or before April 17, 2012, you must achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart no later than April 17, 2012. On or after April 17, 2012, any such new affected source is not subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart F.
(c) If you start up a new affected source after April 17, 2012, you must achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart upon startup of your affected source. Upon startup, any such new affected source is not subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart F.
(d) You must meet the notification requirements in §§ 63.9 and 63.11985 according to the dates specified in those sections. Some of the notifications must be submitted before you are required to comply with the emission limits and standards in this subpart.

# Emission Limits, Operating Limits and Work Practice Standards
§ 63.11880
What emission limits, operating limits and standards must I meet?
(a) You must comply with each emission limit and standard specified in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to your existing affected source, and you must comply with each emission limit and standard specified in Table 2 to this subpart that applies to your new affected source.
(b) You must establish an operating limit for each operating parameter required to be monitored in § 63.11925, and you must establish each operating limit as an operating range, minimum operating level or maximum operating level. You must comply with each established operating limit.
(c) You must comply with the emission limits and standards specified in §§ 63.11910 through 63.11980 that apply to your affected source.

# General Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11885
What parts of the General Provisions apply to me?
Table 4 to this subpart specifies which parts of the General Provisions in subpart A of this part apply to you.
§ 63.11890
What are my additional general requirements for complying with this subpart?
(a) The emission limits, operating limits and work practice standards specified in this subpart apply at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown or malfunction.
(b) At all times, you must operate and maintain your affected source, including associated air pollution control components and monitoring system components, in a manner consistent
with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether acceptable operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator, which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
(c) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate all monitoring system components according to §§ 63.8, 63.11935(b) and (c), and paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), you must operate the continuous monitoring system at all times the affected source is operating. A monitoring system malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. You are required to complete monitoring system repairs in response to monitoring system malfunctions and to return the monitoring system to operation as expeditiously as practicable.
(2) You may not use data recorded during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. You must use all the data collected during all other required data collection periods in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system. You must report any periods for which the monitoring system failed to collect required data.
(d) A deviation means any of the cases listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) Any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source, fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including, but not limited to, any emission limit, operating limit or work practice standard.
(2) When a performance test indicates that emissions of a pollutant in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart are exceeding the emission standard for the pollutant specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(3) When a 3-hour block average from a continuous emissions monitor, as required by § 63.11925(c)(1) through (3), exceeds an emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(4) When the average value of a monitored operating parameter, based on the data averaging period for compliance specified in Table 5 to this subpart, does not meet the operating limit established in § 63.11880(b).
(5) When an affected source discharges directly to the atmosphere from any of the sources specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) A pressure relief device, as defined in § 63.12005.
(ii) A bypass, as defined in § 63.12005.
(iii) A closed vent system in vacuum service.
(iv) A closure device on a pressure vessel.
(6) Any instance in which the affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source, fails to meet any term or condition specified in paragraph (d)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) Any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart.
(ii) Any term or condition relating to compliance with this subpart that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.
(7) Any failure to collect required data, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments).
§ 63.11895
How do I assert an affirmative defense for exceedance of emission standard during malfunction?
In response to an action to enforce the standards set forth in § 63.11880, you may assert an affirmative defense to a claim for civil penalties for violations of such standards that are caused by malfunction, as defined at 40 CFR 63.2. Appropriate penalties may be assessed, however, if you fail to meet your burden of proving all of the requirements in the affirmative defense. The affirmative defense shall not be available for claims for injunctive relief.
(a) Evidence. To establish the affirmative defense in any action to enforce such a standard, you must timely meet the notification requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, and must prove by a preponderance of evidence that:
(1) The violation:
(i) Was caused by a sudden, infrequent, and unavoidable failure of air pollution control and monitoring equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner.
(ii) Could not have been prevented through careful planning, proper design or better operation and maintenance practices.
(iii) Did not stem from any activity or event that could have been foreseen and avoided, or planned for.
(iv) Were not part of a recurring pattern indicative of inadequate design, operation or maintenance.
(2) Repairs were made as expeditiously as possible when violation occurred. Off-shift and overtime labor were used, to the extent practicable to make these repairs.
(3) The frequency, amount and duration of the violation (including any bypass) were minimized to the maximum extent practicable.
(4) If the violation resulted from a bypass of control equipment or a process, then the bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage.
(5) All possible steps were taken to minimize the impact of the violations on ambient air quality, the environment and human health.
(6) All emissions monitoring and control systems were kept in operation if at all possible, consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices.
(7) All of the actions in response to the violations were documented by properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs.
(8) At all times, the affected source was operated in a manner consistent with good practices for minimizing emissions.
(9) A written root cause analysis has been prepared, the purpose of which is to determine, correct, and eliminate the primary causes of the malfunction and the violations resulting from the malfunction event at issue. The analysis shall also specify, using best monitoring methods and engineering judgment, the amount of excess emissions that were the result of the malfunction.
(b) Report. The owner or operator seeking to assert an affirmative defense shall submit a written report to the Administrator in the compliance report required by § 63.11985(b) with all necessary supporting documentation, that it has met the requirements set forth in this section.
§ 63.11896
What am I required to do if I make a process change at my affected source?
If you make a process change to an existing affected source that does not meet the criteria to become a new affected source in § 63.11870(d), you must comply with the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section and the testing and reporting requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. If you make a process change to a new affected source, you must comply with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section and the testing and reporting requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. Refer to § 63.12005 for the definition of process changes.
(a) You must demonstrate that the changed process unit or component of the affected facility is in compliance with the applicable requirements for an existing affected source. You must demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits and establish any applicable operating limits in § 63.11880 within 180 days of the date of start-up
of the changed process unit or component of the affected facility. You must demonstrate compliance with any applicable work practice standards upon startup of the changed process unit or component of the affected facility.
(b) You must demonstrate that all changed emission points are in compliance with the applicable requirements for a new affected source. You must demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits and establish any applicable operating limits in § 63.11880 within 180 days of the date of startup of the changed process unit or component of the affected facility. You must demonstrate compliance with any applicable work practice standards upon startup of the changed process unit or component of the affected facility.
(c) For process changes, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with your emission limits and standards, operating limits, and work practice standards according to the procedures and frequency in §§ 63.11910 through 63.11980.
(d) For process changes, you must submit the report specified in § 63.11985(b)(4)(iii).

# Testing and Compliance Requirements
§ 63.11900
By what date must I conduct initial performance testing and monitoring, establish any applicable operating limits and demonstrate initial compliance with my emission limits and work practice standards?
(a) For existing affected sources, you must establish any applicable operating limits required in § 63.11880 and demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits and standards specified in Tables 1 and 3 to this subpart, as applicable, no later than 180 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.11875 and according to the applicable provisions in § 63.7(a)(2).
(b) For existing affected sources, you must demonstrate initial compliance with any applicable work practice standards required in § 63.11880 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.11875 and according to the applicable provisions in § 63.7(a)(2).
(c) For new or reconstructed affected sources, you must establish any applicable operating limits required in § 63.11880, and demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits and standards specified in Tables 2 and 3 to this subpart, as applicable, no later than 180 days after the effective date of publication of the final rule in the
Federal Register
or within 180 days after startup of the source, whichever is later, according to § 63.7(a)(2)(ix).
(d) For new and reconstructed affected sources, you must demonstrate initial compliance with any applicable work practice standards required in § 63.11880 no later than the startup date of the affected source or the effective date of publication of the final rule in the
Federal Register,
whichever is later, and according to the applicable provisions in § 63.7(a)(2).
(e) If you demonstrate initial compliance using a performance test and a force majeure is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred for which you intend to assert a claim of force majeure, then you must follow the procedures in § 63.7(a)(4).
§ 63.11905
When must I conduct subsequent performance testing and monitoring to demonstrate continuous compliance?
Following the date of your initial demonstration of compliance in § 63.11900, you must conduct subsequent performance testing and monitoring to demonstrate continuous compliance with your emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards according to the procedures and frequency in §§ 63.11910 through 63.11980. If you make a process change as specified in § 63.11896, such that a different emission limit or operating parameter limit applies, you must conduct a performance test according to § 63.11896.
§ 63.11910
What are my initial and continuous compliance requirements for storage vessels?
You must comply with the requirements specified in Table 3 to this subpart for each storage vessel in HAP service.
(a) For each fixed roof storage vessel used to comply with the requirements specified in Table 3 to this subpart, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. If you elect to use a fixed roof storage
vessel vented to a closed vent system and control device, the closed vent system and control device must meet the requirements in §§ 63.11925 through 63.11950.
(1)
Design requirements.
(i) The fixed roof must be installed in a manner such that there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces between roof section joints or between the interface of the roof edge and the tank wall.
(ii) Each opening in the fixed roof must be equipped with a closure device designed to operate such that when the closure device is secured in the closed position there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces in the closure device or between the perimeter of the opening and the closure device.
(2)
Operating requirements.
(i) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the fixed roof must be installed with each closure device secured in the closed position.
(ii) Opening of closure devices or removal of the fixed roof is allowed under conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) A closure device may be opened or the roof may be removed when needed to provide access.
(B) A conservation vent that vents to the atmosphere is allowed during normal operations to maintain the tank internal operating pressure within tank design specifications. Normal operating conditions that may require these devices to open are during those times when the internal pressure of the storage vessel is outside the internal pressure operating range for the storage vessel as a result of loading or unloading operations or diurnal ambient temperature fluctuations.
(iii) During periods of planned routine maintenance of a control device, operate the storage vessel in accordance with paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section. You must keep the records specified in § 63.11990(b)(6).
(A) Do not add material to the storage vessel during periods of planned routine maintenance.
(B) Limit periods of planned routine maintenance for each control device to no more than 360 hours per year (hr/yr).
(3)
Inspection and monitoring requirements.
(i) Visually inspect the fixed roof and its closure devices for defects initially and at least once per calendar year except as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the roof sections or between the roof and the wall of the storage vessel; broken, cracked or otherwise damaged seals, or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps or other closure devices.
(ii) The inspection requirement specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section does not apply to parts of the fixed roof that you determine are unsafe to inspect because operating personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, provided you comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) You prepare and maintain at the plant site written documentation that identifies all parts of the fixed roof that are unsafe to inspect and explains why such parts are unsafe to inspect.
(B) You develop and implement a written plan and schedule to conduct inspections the next time alternative storage capacity becomes available and the storage vessel can be emptied or temporarily removed from service, as necessary, to complete the inspection. The required inspections must be performed as frequently as practicable but do not need to be performed more than once per calendar year. You must maintain a copy of the written plan and schedule at the plant site.
(4)
Repair requirements.
(i) Complete repair of a defect as soon as possible, but no later than 45 days after detection. You must comply with the requirements in this paragraph (a)(4)(i) except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section.
(ii) Repair of a defect may be delayed beyond 45 days if you determine that repair of the defect requires emptying or temporary removal from service of the storage vessel and no alternative storage capacity is available at the site to accept the removed material. In this
case, repair the defect the next time alternative storage capacity becomes available and the storage vessel can be emptied or temporarily removed from service.
(b) If you elect to use an internal floating roof storage vessel or external floating roof storage vessel to comply with the requirements specified in Table 3 to this subpart, you must meet all requirements of §§ 63.1060 through 63.1067 of subpart WW of this part for internal floating roof storage vessels or external floating roof storage vessels, as applicable.
(c) For each pressure vessel used to comply with the requirements specified in Table 3 to this subpart, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Whenever the pressure vessel is in hazardous air pollutants (HAP) service, you must operate the pressure vessel as a closed system that does not vent to the atmosphere, e.g., during filling, emptying and purging. The vent stream during filling, emptying and purging must meet the requirements of § 63.11925(a) and (b).
(2) Each opening in the pressure vessel must be equipped with a closure device designed to operate such that when the closure device is secured in the closed position there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps or other open spaces in the closure device or between the perimeter of the opening and the closure device.
(3) All potential leak interfaces must be monitored annually for leaks using the procedures specified in § 63.11915 and you may adjust for background concentration. You must comply with the recordkeeping provisions specified in § 63.11990(b)(4) and the reporting provisions specified in § 63.11985(a)(1), (b)(1), and (b)(10).
(4) Pressure vessel closure devices must not discharge to the atmosphere. Any such release (e.g., leak) constitutes a violation of this rule. You must submit to the Administrator as part of your compliance report the information specified in § 63.11985(b)(10). This report is required even if you elect to follow the procedures specified in § 63.11895 to establish an affirmative defense.
§ 63.11915
What are my compliance requirements for equipment leaks?
For equipment in HAP service (as defined in § 63.12005), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a) Requirement for certain equipment in subpart UU of this part. You must comply with §§ 63.1020 through 63.1025, 63.1027, 63.1029 through 63.1032, and 63.1034 through 63.1039 of subpart UU of this part.
(b) Requirements for pumps, compressors, and agitators. You must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. For each type of equipment specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, you must also meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
(1) Rotating pumps. HAP emissions from seals on all rotating pumps in HAP service are to be minimized by either installing sealless pumps, pumps with double mechanical seals or equivalent equipment, or by complying with the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart UU for rotating pumps. If double mechanical seals are used, emissions from the seals are to be minimized by maintaining the pressure between the two seals so that any leak that occurs is into the pump; by complying with § 63.11925(a) and (b); or equivalent equipment or procedures approved by the Administrator.
(2) Reciprocating pumps, rotating compressors, reciprocating compressors and agitators. HAP emissions from seals on all reciprocating pumps, rotating compressors, reciprocating compressors and agitators in HAP service are to be minimized by either installing double mechanical seals or equivalent equipment, or by complying with the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart UU for reciprocating pumps, rotating compressors, reciprocating compressors and/or agitators. If double mechanical seals are used, HAP emissions from the seals are to be minimized by maintaining the pressure between the two seals so that any leak that occurs is into the pump; by complying with § 63.11925(a) and (b); or equivalent equipment or procedures approved by the Administrator.
(c) Requirements for pressure relief devices. For pressure relief devices in
HAP service, as defined in § 63.12005, you must meet the requirements of this paragraph (c) and paragraph (a) of this section, you must comply with the recordkeeping provisions in § 63.11990(c), and you must comply with the reporting provisions in §§ 63.11985(a)(2), (b)(2) and (c)(7).
(1) For pressure relief devices in HAP service that discharge directly to the atmosphere without first meeting the process vent emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart by routing the discharge to a closed vent system and control device designed and operated in accordance with the requirements in §§ 63.11925 through 63.11950, you must install, maintain, and operate release indicators as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. Any release to the atmosphere without meeting the process vent emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, constitutes a violation of this rule. You must submit the report specified in § 63.11985(c)(7), as described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section.
(i) A release indicator must be properly installed on each pressure relief device in such a way that it will indicate when an emission release has occurred.
(ii) Each indicator must be equipped with an alert system that will notify an operator immediately and automatically when the pressure relief device is open. The alert must be located such that the signal is detected and recognized easily by an operator.
(iii) For any instance that the release indicator indicates that a pressure relief device is open, you must notify operators that a pressure release has occurred, and, within 10 days of the release, you must submit to the Administrator the report specified in § 63.11985(c)(7). This report is required even if you elect to follow the procedures specified in § 63.11895 to establish an affirmative defense.
(2) For pressure relief devices in HAP service that discharge directly to a closed vent system and control device designed and operated in accordance with the requirements in §§ 63.11925 through 63.11950, and are required to meet process vent emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart. Any release to the atmosphere without meeting the process vent emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, constitutes a violation of this rule. You must notify operators that a pressure release has occurred, and, within 10 days of the release, you must submit to the Administrator the report specified in § 63.11985(c)(7). This report is required even if you elect to follow the procedures specified in § 63.11895(b) to establish an affirmative defense.
§ 63.11920
What are my initial and continuous compliance requirements for heat exchange systems?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, you must perform monitoring to identify leaks of volatile organic compounds from each heat exchange system in HAP service subject to the requirements of this subpart according to the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1)
Monitoring locations for closed-loop recirculation heat exchange systems.
For each closed loop recirculating heat exchange system, you must collect and analyze a sample from the location(s) described in either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) Each cooling tower return line prior to exposure to air for each heat exchange system in HAP service.
(ii) Selected heat exchanger exit line(s) so that each heat exchanger or group of heat exchangers within a heat exchange system is covered by the selected monitoring location(s).
(2)
Monitoring locations for once-through heat exchange systems.
For each once-through heat exchange system, you must collect and analyze a sample from the location(s) described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. You may also elect to collect and analyze an additional sample from the location(s) described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i) Selected heat exchanger exit line(s) so that each heat exchanger or group of heat exchangers in HAP service within a heat exchange system is covered by the selected monitoring location(s).
(ii) The inlet water feed line for a once-through heat exchange system prior to any heat exchanger. If multiple heat exchange systems use the same water feed (i.e., inlet water from
the same primary water source), you may monitor at one representative location and use the monitoring results for that sampling location for all heat exchange systems that use that same water feed.
(3)
Monitoring method.
You must determine the total strippable volatile organic compounds concentration or vinyl chloride concentration at each monitoring location using one of the analytical methods specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Determine the total strippable volatile organic compounds concentration (in parts per million by volume) as methane from the air stripping testing system using Modified El Paso Method (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) using a flame ionization detector analyzer.
(ii) Determine the total strippable volatile organic compounds concentration (in parts per billion by weight) in the cooling water using Method 624 at 40 CFR part 136, appendix A. The target list of compounds shall be generated based on a pre-survey sample and analysis by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry and process knowledge to include all compounds that can potentially leak into the cooling water. If Method 624 of part 136, appendix A is not applicable for all compounds that can potentially leak into the cooling water for a given heat exchange system, you cannot use this monitoring method for that heat exchange system.
(iii) Determine the vinyl chloride concentration (in parts per billion by weight) in the cooling water using Method 107 at 40 CFR part 61, appendix A.
(4)
Monitoring frequency.
You must determine the total strippable volatile organic compounds or vinyl chloride concentration at each monitoring location at the frequencies specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) For heat exchange systems for which you have not delayed repair of any leaks, monitor at least monthly. You may elect to monitor more frequently than the minimum frequency specified in this paragraph.
(ii) If you elect to monitor the inlet water feed line for a once-through heat exchange system as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, you must monitor the inlet water feed line at the same frequency used to monitor the heat exchange exit line(s), as required in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.
(b) A heat exchange system is not subject to the monitoring requirements in paragraph (a) of this section if it meets any one of the criteria in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) All heat exchangers that are in HAP service within the heat exchange system operate with the minimum pressure on the cooling water side at least 35 kilopascals greater than the maximum pressure on the process side.
(2) The heat exchange system does not contain any heat exchangers that are in HAP service.
(3) The heat exchange system has a maximum cooling water flow rate of 10 gallons per minute or less.
(c) The leak action levels for both existing and new sources are specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) If you elect to monitor your heat exchange system by using the monitoring method specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, then the leak action level is a total strippable volatile organic compounds concentration (as methane) in the stripping gas of 3.9 parts per million by volume.
(2) If you elect to monitor your heat exchange system by using the monitoring method specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, then the leak action level is a total strippable volatile organic compounds concentration in the cooling water of 50 parts per billion by weight.
(3) If you elect to monitor your heat exchange system by using the monitoring method specified in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section, then the leak action level is a vinyl chloride concentration in the cooling water of 50 parts per billion by weight.
(d) A leak is defined as specified in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.
(1) For once-through heat exchange systems for which you monitor the inlet water feed, as described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, a leak is
detected if the difference in the measurement value of the sample taken from a location specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section and the measurement value of the corresponding sample taken from the location specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section equals or exceeds the leak action level.
(2) For all other heat exchange systems, a leak is detected if a measurement value taken according to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section equals or exceeds the leak action level.
(e) If a leak is detected, you must repair the leak to reduce the measured concentration to below the applicable action level as soon as practicable, but no later than 45 days after identifying the leak, except as specified in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section. Repair includes re-monitoring as specified in paragraph (a) of this section to verify that the measured concentration is below the applicable action level. Actions that you can take to achieve repair include but are not limited to:
(1) Physical modifications to the leaking heat exchanger, such as welding the leak or replacing a tube;
(2) Blocking the leaking tube within the heat exchanger;
(3) Changing the pressure so that water flows into the process fluid;
(4) Replacing the heat exchanger or heat exchanger bundle; or
(5) Isolating, bypassing or otherwise removing the leaking heat exchanger from service until it is otherwise repaired.
(f) If you detect a leak when monitoring a cooling tower return line or heat exchanger exit line under paragraph (a) of this section, you may conduct additional monitoring following the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section to further isolate each heat exchanger or group of heat exchangers in HAP service within the heat exchange system for which the leak was detected. If you do not detect any leaks when conducting additional monitoring for each heat exchanger or group of heat exchangers, the heat exchange system is excluded from repair requirements in paragraph (e) of this section.
(g) The delay of repair action level is defined as either a total strippable volatile organic compounds concentration (as methane) in the stripping gas of 39 parts per million by volume or a total strippable volatile organic compounds concentration in the cooling water of 500 parts per billion by weight or a vinyl chloride concentration in the cooling water of 500 parts per billion by weight. While you remain below the repair action level, you may delay the repair of a leaking heat exchanger only if one of the conditions in paragraphs (g)(1) or (2) of this section is met. If you exceed the repair action level you must repair according to paragraph (e) of this section. You must determine if a delay of repair is necessary as soon as practicable, but no later than 45 days after first identifying the leak.
(1) If the repair is technically infeasible without a shutdown and the total strippable volatile organic compounds or vinyl chloride concentration is initially and remains less than the delay of repair action level for all monitoring periods during the delay of repair, you may delay repair until the next scheduled shutdown of the heat exchange system. If, during subsequent monitoring, the total strippable volatile organic compounds or vinyl chloride concentration is equal to or greater than the delay of repair action level, you must repair the leak within 30 days of the monitoring event in which the total strippable volatile organic compounds or vinyl chloride concentration was equal to or exceeded the delay of repair action level.
(2) If the necessary equipment, parts, or personnel are not available and the total strippable volatile organic compounds or vinyl chloride concentration is initially and remains less than the delay of repair action level for all monitoring periods during the delay of repair, you may delay the repair for a maximum of 120 days from the day the leak was first identified. You must demonstrate that the necessary equipment, parts or personnel were not available. If, during subsequent monthly monitoring, the total strippable volatile organic compounds or vinyl chloride concentration is equal to or greater than the delay of repair action level, you must repair the leak within
30 days of the monitoring event in which the leak was equal to or exceeded the total strippable volatile organic compounds or vinyl chloride delay of repair action level.
(h) To delay the repair under paragraph (g) of this section, you must record the information in paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) The reason(s) for delaying repair.
(2) A schedule for completing the repair as soon as practical.
(3) The date and concentration of the leak as first identified and the results of all subsequent monitoring events during the delay of repair.
(4) An estimate of the potential emissions from the leaking heat exchange system following the procedures in paragraphs (h)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Determine the total strippable volatile organic compounds or vinyl chloride concentration in the cooling water, in parts per billion by weight. If the Modified El Paso Method is used, calculate the total strippable volatile organic compounds concentration in the cooling water using equation 7-1 from Modified El Paso Method (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) and the total strippable volatile organic compounds concentration measured in the stripped air.
(ii) Calculate the emissions for the leaking heat exchange system by multiplying the volatile organic compounds or vinyl chloride concentration in the cooling water, ppbw, by the flow rate of the cooling water at the selected monitoring location and by the expected duration of the delay according to Equation 1 of this section. The flow rate may be based on direct measurement, pump curves, heat balance calculations or other engineering methods.
ER17AP12.000
Where:
E
L
= Emissions from leaking heat exchange system, pounds of volatile organic compounds or vinyl chloride.
C
VC
= Actual measured concentration of total strippable volatile organic compounds or vinyl chloride measured in the cooling water, parts per billion by weight (ppbw).
V
CW
= Total volumetric flow rate of cooling water, gallons per minute (gpm).
ρ
CW
= Density of cooling water, pounds per gallon (lb/gal).
D
delay
= Expected duration of the repair delay, days.
§ 63.11925
What are my initial and continuous compliance requirements for process vents?
Each process vent must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.
(a)
Emission limits.
Each process vent must meet the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart prior to the vent stream being exposed to the atmosphere. The emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart apply at all times. The emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart must not be met through dilution.
(b)
Closed vent systems and control devices.
Each batch process vent, continuous process vent and miscellaneous vent that is in HAP service must be routed through a closed vent system to a control device. All gas streams routed to the closed vent system and control device must be for a process purpose and not for the purpose of diluting the process vent to meet the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart. Each control device used to comply with paragraph (a) of this section must meet the requirements of §§ 63.11925 and 63.11940, and all closed vent systems must meet the requirements in § 63.11930. You must not use a flare to comply with the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(c)
General monitoring requirements.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, for each control device used to comply with the process vent emission limit specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, you must install and operate a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) to
monitor each operating parameter specified in § 63.11940(a) through (h) to comply with your operating limit(s) required in § 63.11880(b).
(1) Hydrogen chloride continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS). In lieu of establishing operating limits in § 63.11880(b) and using CPMS to comply with the operating limits, as specified in § 63.11940(a) through (h), upon promulgation of a performance specification for hydrogen chloride CEMS, new and existing sources have the option to install a hydrogen chloride CEMS to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the hydrogen chloride emission limit for process vents, as specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(2) Dioxin/furan CEMS. In lieu of establishing operating limits in § 63.11880(b) and using CPMS to comply with the operating limits as specified in § 63.11940(a) through (h), upon promulgation of a performance specification for dioxin/furan CEMS, new and existing sources have the option to install a dioxin/furan CEMS to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the dioxins/furan emission limit for process vents, as specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(3) Total hydrocarbon CEMS. In lieu of establishing operating limits in § 63.11880(b) and using CPMS to comply with the operating limits as specified in § 63.11940(a) through (h), new and existing affected sources have the option to install a total hydrocarbon CEMS to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the total hydrocarbons or total organic HAP emission limit for process vents, as specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(d)
Initial compliance.
To demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, you must comply with paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) You must conduct an initial inspection as specified in § 63.11930(d) for each closed vent system.
(2) For each CEMS and CPMS required or that you elect to use as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, you must prepare the quality control program and site-specific performance evaluation test plan as specified in § 63.11935(b) and site-specific monitoring plan specified in § 63.11935(c), respectively.
(3) For each CEMS and CPMS required or that you elect to use as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, you must install, operate, and maintain the CEMS and CPMS as specified in §§ 63.11935(b) and (c), respectively, and you must conduct an initial site-specific performance evaluation test according to your site-specific monitoring plan and §§ 63.11935(b)(3) and (c)(4), respectively.
(4) For each emission limit for which you use a CEMS to demonstrate compliance, you must meet the requirements specified in § 63.11890(c), and you must demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart based on 3-hour block averages of CEMS data collected at the minimum frequency specified in § 63.11935(b)(2) and calculated using the data reduction method specified in § 63.11935(e). For a CEMS used on a batch operation, you may use a data averaging period based on an operating block in lieu of the 3-hour averaging period.
(5) For each emission limit in Table 1 or 2 for which you do not use a CEMS to demonstrate compliance, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (d)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct an initial performance test according to the requirements in § 63.11945 to demonstrate compliance with the total hydrocarbons or total organic HAP emission limit, vinyl chloride emission limit, hydrogen chloride emission limit, and dioxin/furan emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(ii) During the performance test specified in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section, for each CPMS installed and operated as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, you must establish an operating limit as the operating parameter range, minimum operating parameter level, or maximum operating parameter level specified in § 63.11935(d). You must meet the requirements specified in § 63.11890(c). Each operating limit must be based on the data averaging period for compliance specified in Table 5 to this subpart using data collected at the minimum frequency
specified in § 63.11935(c)(2) and calculated using the data reduction method specified in § 63.11935(e). For a CPMS used on a batch operation, you may use a data averaging period based on an operating block in lieu of the averaging period specified in Table 5 to this subpart.
(e)
Continuous compliance.
To demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart for each process vent, you must comply with paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) You must meet the requirements in § 63.11930 for each closed vent system.
(2) You must operate and maintain each CEMS and CPMS required in paragraph (c) of this section as specified in § 63.11935(b) and (c), respectively.
(3) For each emission limit for which you use a CEMS to demonstrate compliance, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct a periodic site-specific CEMS performance evaluation test according to your quality control program and site-specific performance evaluation test plan specified in § 63.11935(b)(1).
(ii) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart based on 3-hour block averages of CEMS data collected at the minimum frequency specified in § 63.11935(b)(2), and calculated using the data reduction method specified in § 63.11935(e). You must meet the requirements specified in § 63.11890(c). For a CEMS used on a batch operation, you may use a data averaging period based on an operating block in lieu of the 3-hour averaging period.
(4) For each emission limit for which you do not use a CEMS to demonstrate compliance, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (e)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct a performance test once every 5 years according to the requirements in § 63.11945 for each pollutant in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(ii) For each CPMS operated and maintained as specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, you must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) You must conduct periodic site-specific CPMS performance evaluation tests according to your site-specific monitoring plan and § 63.11935(c).
(B) For each control device being monitored, you must continuously collect CPMS data consistent with § 63.11890(c) and your site-specific monitoring plan. You must continuously determine the average value of each monitored operating parameter based on the data collection and reduction methods specified in §§ 63.11935(c)(2) and 63.11935(e), and the applicable data averaging period for compliance specified in Table 5 to this subpart for all periods the process is operating. For a CPMS used on a batch operation, you may use a data averaging period based on an operating block in lieu of the averaging periods specified in Table 5 to this subpart.
(C) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit established in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section using these average values calculated in paragraph (e)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.
(5) Each closed vent system and control device used to comply with an emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart must be operated at all times when emissions are vented to, or collected by, these systems or devices.
(f) To demonstrate compliance with the dioxin/furan toxic equivalency emission limit specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, you must determine dioxin/furan toxic equivalency as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Measure the concentration of each dioxin/furan (tetra-through octachlorinated) congener emitted using Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.
(2) For each dioxin/furan (tetra-through octachlorinated) congener measured in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section, multiply the congener concentration by its corresponding toxic equivalency factor specified in Table 6 to this subpart.
(3) Sum the products calculated in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this
section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins/furans emitted in terms of toxic equivalency.
(g)
Emission profile.
You must characterize each process vent by developing an emissions profile for each contributing continuous process vent, miscellaneous vent and batch process vent according to paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) For batch process vents, the emissions profile must:
(i) Describe the characteristics of the batch process vent under worst-case conditions.
(ii) Determine emissions per episode and batch process vent emissions according to the procedures specified in § 63.11950.
(2) For continuous process vents, the flow rate and concentration must be determined according to paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (iii) or according to paragraph (g)(2)(iv):
(i)(A) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling site. The sampling site shall be after the last recovery device (if any recovery devices are present) but prior to being combined with any other continuous process vent, batch process vent, or miscellaneous vent, prior to the inlet of any control device that is present and prior to release to the atmosphere.
(B) No traverse site selection method is needed for vents smaller than 0.10 meter in diameter.
(ii) The gas volumetric flow rate shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, as appropriate.
(iii) (A) Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6 or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 shall be used to measure concentration; alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to the protocol in Method 301 of appendix A of this part may be used.
(B) Where Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6 is used, the following procedures shall be used to calculate parts per million by volume concentration:
(
1
) The minimum sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour in which either an integrated sample or four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15-minute intervals during the run.
(
2
) The concentration of either total organic compounds (TOC) (minus methane and ethane) or organic HAP shall be calculated according to paragraph (g)(2)(iii)(B)(2)(i) or (g)(2)(iii)(B)(2)(ii) of this section as applicable.
(
i
) The TOC concentration (C
TOC
) is the sum of the concentrations of the individual components and shall be computed for each run using Equation 1 of this section:
ER17AP12.001
Where:
C
TOC
= Concentration of TOC (minus methane and ethane), dry basis, parts per million by volume.
C
ji
= Concentration of sample component j of the sample i, dry basis, parts per million by volume.
n = Number of components in the sample.
x = Number of samples in the sample run.
(
ii
) The total organic HAP concentration (CHAP) shall be computed according to Equation 1 of this section except that only the organic HAP species shall be summed. The list of organic HAP is provided in Table 2 to subpart F of this part.
(C) Where Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 is used, the following
procedures shall be used to calculate parts per million by volume TOC concentration:
(
1
) Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, shall be used only if a single organic HAP compound is greater than 50 percent of total organic HAP, by volume, in the vent stream.
(
2
) The vent stream composition may be determined by either process knowledge, test data collected using an appropriate EPA method, or a method or data validated according to the protocol in Method 301 of appendix A of this part. Examples of information that could constitute process knowledge include calculations based on material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current vent stream conditions.
(
3
) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 shall be the single organic HAP compound present at greater than 50 percent of the total organic HAP by volume.
(
4
) The span value for Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 shall be 50 parts per million by volume.
(
5
) Use of Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.
(iv) Engineering assessment including, but not limited to, the following:
(A) Previous test results provided the tests are representative of current operating practices at the process unit.
(B) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions.
(C) Maximum flow rate, TOC emission rate, organic HAP emission rate, or net heating value limit specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the process vent.
(D) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to:
(
1
) Use of material balances based on process stoichiometry to estimate maximum organic HAP concentrations,
(
2
) Estimation of maximum flow rate based on physical equipment design such as pump or blower capacities,
(
3
) Estimation of TOC or organic HAP concentrations based on saturation conditions,
(
4
) Estimation of maximum expected net heating value based on the vent stream concentration of each organic compound or, alternatively, as if all TOC in the vent stream were the compound with the highest heating value.
(E) All data, assumptions, and procedures used in the engineering assessment shall be documented.
(3) For miscellaneous process vents the emissions profile must be determined according to paragraph (g)(2)(iv) of this section.
(h)
Process changes.
Except for temporary shutdowns for maintenance activities, if you make a process change such that, as a result of that change, you are subject to a different process vent limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, then you must meet the requirements of § 63.11896.
§ 63.11930
What requirements must I meet for closed vent systems?
(a)
General.
To route emissions from process vents subject to the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart to a control device, you must use a closed vent system and meet the requirements of this section and all provisions referenced in this section. However, if you operate and maintain your closed vent system in vacuum service as defined in § 63.12005, you must meet the requirements in paragraph (h) of this section and are not required to meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.
(b)
Collection of emissions.
Each closed vent system must be designed and operated to collect the HAP vapors from each continuous process vent, miscellaneous process vent and batch process vent, and to route the collected vapors to a control device.
(c)
Bypass.
For each closed vent system that contains a bypass as defined in § 63.12005 (
e.g.
, diverting a vent stream away from the control device),
you must not discharge to the atmosphere through the bypass. Any such release constitutes a violation of this rule. The use of any bypass diverted to the atmosphere during a performance test invalidates the performance test. You must comply with the provisions of either paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section for each closed vent system that contains a bypass that could divert a vent stream to the atmosphere.
(1)
Bypass flow indicator.
Install, maintain, and operate a flow indicator as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) The flow indicator must be properly installed at the entrance to any bypass.
(ii) The flow indicator must be equipped with an alarm system that will alert an operator immediately, and automatically when flow is detected in the bypass. The alarm must be located such that the alert is detected and recognized easily by an operator.
(iii) If the alarm is triggered, you must immediately initiate procedures to identify the cause of the alarm. If any closed vent system has discharged to the atmosphere through a vent or bypass, you must initiate procedures to stop the bypass discharge.
(iv) For any instances where the flow indicator alarm is triggered, you must submit to the Administrator as part of your compliance report, the information specified in § 63.11985(b)(9) and (10). This report is required even if you elect to follow the procedures specified in § 63.11895 to establish an affirmative defense and submit the reports specified in § 63.11985(b)(11).
(2)
Bypass valve configuration.
Secure the bypass valve in the non-diverting position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration.
(i) You must visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism at least once every month to verify that the valve is maintained in the non-diverting position, and the vent stream is not diverted through the bypass. A broken seal or closure mechanism or a diverted valve constitutes a violation from the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart. You must maintain the records specified in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii) For each seal or closure mechanism, you must comply with either paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.
(A) For each instance that you change the bypass valve to the diverting position, you must submit to the Administrator as part of your compliance report, the information specified in § 63.11985(b)(9) and (10). This report is required even if you elect to follow the procedures specified in § 63.11895 to establish an affirmative defense and submit the reports specified in § 63.11985(b)(11).
(B) You must install, maintain, and operate a bypass flow indicator as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section and you must meet the requirements in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section for each instance that the flow indicator alarm is triggered.
(d)
Closed vent system inspection and monitoring requirements.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, you must inspect each closed vent system as specified in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1)
Hard-piping inspection.
If the closed vent system is constructed of hard-piping, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in paragraph (e) of this section.
(ii) Conduct annual inspections for visible, audible, or olfactory indications of leaks.
(2)
Ductwork inspection.
If the closed vent system is constructed of ductwork, you must conduct initial and annual inspections according to the procedures in paragraph (e) of this section.
(3)
Equipment that is unsafe to inspect.
You may designate any parts of the closed vent system as unsafe to inspect if you determine that personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with the initial and annual closed vent system inspection requirements of this subpart.
(e)
Closed vent system inspection procedures.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, you must comply with all provisions of paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
General.
Inspections must be performed during periods when HAP is being collected by or vented through the closed vent system. A leak is indicated by an instrument reading greater than 500 parts per million by volume above background or by visual inspection.
(2)
Inspection procedures.
Each closed vent system subject to this paragraph (e)(2) must be inspected according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) Inspections must be conducted in accordance with Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, except as otherwise specified in this section.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section, the detection instrument must meet the performance criteria of Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, except the instrument response factor criteria in section 8.1.1.2 of Method 21 must be for the representative composition of the process fluid and not of each individual volatile organic compound in the stream. For process streams that contain nitrogen, air, water or other inerts that are not organic HAP or volatile organic compound, the representative stream response factor must be determined on an inert-free basis. You may determine the response factor at any concentration for which you will monitor for leaks.
(iii) If no instrument is available at the plant site that will meet the performance criteria of Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 specified in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, the instrument readings may be adjusted by multiplying by the representative response factor of the process fluid, calculated on an inert-free basis as described in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.
(iv) The detection instrument must be calibrated before use on each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.
(v) Calibration gases must be as specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(v)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) Zero air (less than 10 parts per million by volume hydrocarbon in air).
(B) Mixtures of methane in air at a concentration less than 10,000 parts per million by volume. A calibration gas other than methane in air may be used if the instrument does not respond to methane or if the instrument does not meet the performance criteria specified in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section. In such cases, the calibration gas may be a mixture of one or more of the compounds to be measured in air.
(C) If the detection instrument's design allows for multiple calibration scales, then the lower scale must be calibrated with a calibration gas that is no higher than 2,500 parts per million by volume.
(D) Perform a calibration drift assessment, at a minimum, at the end of each monitoring day. Check the instrument using the same calibration gas(es) that were used to calibrate the instrument before use. Follow the procedures specified in Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, section 10.1, except do not adjust the meter readout to correspond to the calibration gas value. Record the instrument reading for each scale used as specified in paragraph (g)(4) of this section. Divide these readings by the initial calibration values for each scale and multiply by 100 to express the calibration drift as a percentage. If any calibration drift assessment shows a negative drift of more than 10 percent from the initial calibration value, then all equipment monitored since the last calibration with instrument readings below the appropriate leak definition and above the leak definition multiplied by the value specified in paragraph (e)(2)(v)(D)(
1
) of this section must be re-monitored. If any calibration drift assessment shows a positive drift of more than 10 percent from the initial calibration value, then, at your discretion, all equipment since the last calibration with instrument readings above the appropriate leak definition and below the leak definition multiplied by the value specified in paragraph (e)(2)(v)(D)(
2
) of this section may be re-monitored.
(
1
) 100 minus the percent of negative drift, divided by 100.
(
2
) 100 plus the percent of positive drift, divided by 100.
(vi) You may elect to adjust or not adjust instrument readings for background. If you elect not to adjust readings for background, all such instrument readings must be compared directly to 500 parts per million by volume to determine whether there is a leak. If you elect to adjust instrument readings for background, you must measure background concentration using the procedures in this section. You must subtract the background reading from the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument.
(vii) If you elect to adjust for background, the arithmetic difference between the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level must be compared with 500 parts per million by volume for determining whether there is a leak.
(3)
Instrument probe.
The instrument probe must be traversed around all potential leak interfaces as described in Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.
(4)
Unsafe-to-inspect written plan requirements.
For equipment designated as unsafe to inspect according to the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section, you must maintain and follow a written plan that requires inspecting the equipment as frequently as practical during safe-to-inspect times, but not more frequently than the annual inspection schedule otherwise applicable. You must still repair unsafe-to-inspect equipment according to the procedures in paragraph (f) of this section if a leak is detected.
(f)
Closed vent system leak repair provisions.
The provisions of this paragraph (f) apply to closed vent systems collecting HAP from an affected source.
(1)
Leak repair general for hard-piping.
If there are visible, audible, or olfactory indications of leaks at the time of the annual visual inspections required by paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, you must follow the procedure specified in either paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) You must eliminate the leak.
(ii) You must monitor the equipment according to the procedures in paragraph (e) of this section and comply with the leak repair provisions in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(2)
Leak repair schedule.
Leaks must be repaired as soon as practical, except as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(i) A first attempt at repair must be made no later than 5 days after the leak is detected.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, repairs must be completed no later than 15 days after the leak is detected or at the beginning of the next introduction of vapors to the system, whichever is later.
(3)
Delay of repair.
Delay of repair of a closed vent system for which leaks have been detected is allowed if repair within 15 days after a leak is detected is technically infeasible or unsafe without a closed vent system shutdown or if you determine that emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of such equipment must be completed as soon as practical, but not later than the end of the next closed vent system shutdown.
(g)
Closed vent system records.
For closed vent systems, you must record the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section, as applicable.
(1)
Bypass records.
For each closed vent system that contains a bypass that could divert a vent stream away from the control device and to the atmosphere, or cause air intrusion into the control device, you must keep a record of the information specified in either paragraph (g)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) You must maintain records of any alarms triggered because flow was detected in the bypass, including the date and time the alarm was triggered, the duration of the flow in the bypass, as well as records of the times of all periods when the vent stream is diverted from the control device or the flow indicator is not operating.
(ii) Where a seal mechanism is used to comply with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, hourly records of flow are not required. In such cases, you must record that the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanisms has been done, and must record the occurrence of all periods when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass valve
position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type lock has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has been broken.
(2)
Inspection records.
For each instrumental or visual inspection conducted in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section for closed vent systems collecting HAP from an affected source during which no leaks are detected, you must record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.
(3)
Leak records.
When a leak is detected from a closed vent system collecting HAP from an affected source, the information specified in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section must be recorded and kept for 5 years.
(i) The instrument and the equipment identification number and the operator name, initials, or identification number.
(ii) The date the leak was detected and the date of the first attempt to repair the leak.
(iii) The date of successful repair of the leak.
(iv) The maximum instrument reading measured by the procedures in paragraph (e) of this section after the leak is successfully repaired.
(v) Repair delayed and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 days after discovery of the leak. You may develop a written procedure that identifies the conditions that justify a delay of repair. In such cases, reasons for delay of repair may be documented by citing the relevant sections of the written procedure.
(vi) Copies of the compliance reports as specified in § 63.11985(b)(9), if records are not maintained on a computerized database capable of generating summary reports from the records.
(4)
Instrument calibration records.
You must maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (g)(4)(i) through (vi) of this section for monitoring instrument calibrations conducted according to sections 8.1.2 and 10 of Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, and paragraph (e) of this section.
(i) Date of calibration and initials of operator performing the calibration.
(ii) Calibration gas cylinder identification, certification date, and certified concentration.
(iii) Instrument scale(s) used.
(iv) A description of any corrective action taken if the meter readout could not be adjusted to correspond to the calibration gas value in accordance with section 10.1 of Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.
(v) Results of each calibration drift assessment required by paragraph (e)(2)(v)(D) of this section (
i.e.,
instrument reading for calibration at end of the monitoring day and the calculated percent difference from the initial calibration value).
(vi) If you make your own calibration gas, a description of the procedure used.
(5)
Unsafe-to-inspect records.
If you designate equipment as unsafe-to-inspect as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, you must keep the records specified in paragraph (g)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must maintain the identity of unsafe-to-inspect equipment as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(ii) You must keep a written plan for inspecting unsafe-to-inspect equipment as required by paragraph (e)(4) of this section and record all activities performed according to the written plan.
(h)
Closed vent systems in vacuum service.
If you operate and maintain a closed vent system in vacuum service as defined in § 63.12005, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section, and you are not required to comply with any other provisions of this section. Any incidence where a closed vent system designed to be in vacuum service is operating and not in vacuum service constitutes a violation of this rule, unless the closed vent system is meeting the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section for closed vent systems that are not in vacuum service. Any such incidence during a performance test invalidates the performance test.
(1)
In vacuum service alarm.
You must install, maintain, and operate a pressure gauge and alarm system that will alert an operator immediately and automatically when the pressure is such that the closed vent system no
longer meets the definition of in vacuum service as defined in § 63.12005. The alarm must be located such that the alert is detected and recognized easily by an operator.
(2)
In vacuum service alarm procedures.
If the alarm is triggered for a closed vent system operating in vacuum service as specified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, you must immediately initiate procedures to identify the cause of the alarm. If the closed vent system is not in vacuum service, you must initiate procedures to get the closed vent system back in vacuum service as defined in § 63.12005, or you must immediately comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section for closed vent systems that are not in vacuum service.
(3)
In vacuum service alarm records and reports.
For any incidences where a closed vent system designed to be in vacuum service is not in vacuum service, you must submit to the Administrator as part of your compliance report, the information specified in § 63.11985(b)(10). This report is required even if you elect to follow the procedures specified in § 63.11895 to establish an affirmative defense and submit the reports specified in § 63.11985(b)(11).
§ 63.11935
What CEMS and CPMS requirements must I meet to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the emission standards for process vents?
(a)
General requirements for CEMS and CPMS.
You must meet the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section for each CEMS specified in § 63.11925(c) used to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits for process vents in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart. You must meet the CPMS requirements in paragraph (c) of this section and establish your operating limits in paragraph (d) of this section for each operating parameter specified in Table 5 to this subpart for each process vent control device specified in § 63.11925(b) that is used to comply with the emission limits for process vents in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, except that flow indicators specified in § 63.11940(a) are not subject to the requirements of this section.
(b)
CEMS.
You must install, operate, and maintain each CEMS according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section and continuously monitor emissions.
(1) You must prepare your quality control program and site-specific performance evaluation test plan, as specified in § 63.8(d) and (e). You must submit your performance evaluation test plan to the Administrator for approval, as specified in § 63.8(e)(3).
(2) The monitoring equipment must be capable of providing a continuous record, recording data at least once every 15 minutes.
(3) You must conduct initial and periodic site-specific performance evaluations and any required tests of each CEMS according to your quality control program and site-specific performance evaluation test plan prepared as specified in § 63.8(d) and (e).
(4) If supplemental gases are added to the control device, you must correct the measured concentrations in accordance with § 63.11945(d)(3).
(5) You must operate and maintain the CEMS in continuous operation according to the quality control program and performance evaluation test plan. CEMS must record data at least once every 15 minutes.
(6) CEMS must meet the minimum accuracy and calibration frequency requirements specified in the performance specifications specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) A hydrogen chloride or dioxin/furan CEMS must meet the requirements of the promulgated performance specification for the CEMS.
(ii) A total hydrocarbon CEMS must meet the requirements of 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix B, performance specification 8A.
(7) Before commencing or ceasing use of a CEMS system, you must notify the Administrator as specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must notify the Administrator 1 month before starting use of the continuous emissions monitoring system.
(ii) You must notify the Administrator 1 month before stopping use of the continuous emissions monitoring system, in which case you must also conduct a performance test within 60
days of ceasing operation of the system.
(c)
CPMS.
You must install, maintain, and operate each CPMS as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section and continuously monitor operating parameters.
(1) As part of your quality control program and site-specific performance evaluation test plan prepared as specified in § 63.8(d) and (e), you must prepare a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the monitoring system design, data collection, and the quality assurance and quality control elements specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section and § 63.8(d). You are not required to submit the plan for approval unless requested by the Administrator. You may request approval of monitoring system quality assurance and quality control procedure alternatives to those specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section in your site-specific monitoring plan.
(i) The performance criteria and design specifications for the monitoring system equipment, including the sample interface, detector signal analyzer, and data acquisition and calculations.
(ii) Sampling interface (
e.g.,
thermocouple) location such that the monitoring system will provide representative measurements.
(iii) Equipment performance checks, calibrations, or other audit procedures.
(iv) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with provisions in § 63.8(c)(1) and (3).
(v) Ongoing reporting and recordkeeping procedures in accordance with provisions in § 63.10(c), (e)(1) and (e)(2)(i).
(2) The monitoring equipment must be capable of providing a continuous record, recording data at least once every 15 minutes.
(3) You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS according to the procedures and requirements in your site-specific monitoring plan.
(4) You must conduct an initial and periodic site-specific performance evaluation tests of each CPMS according to your site-specific monitoring plan.
(5) All CPMS must meet the specific parameter (
e.g.,
minimum accuracy and calibration frequency) requirements specified in § 63.11940 and Table 7 to this subpart.
(6) Monitoring equipment for temperature, pressure, volumetric flow rate, mass flow rate and conductivity must be capable of measuring the appropriate parameter over a range that extends at least 20 percent beyond the normal expected operating range of values for that parameter. The data recording system associated with affected CPMS must have a resolution that is equal to or better than one-half of the required system accuracy.
(d)
Establish operating limit.
For each operating parameter that must be monitored in § 63.11925(c) for process vent control devices, you must establish an operating limit as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section. You must establish each operating limit as an operating parameter range, minimum operating parameter level, or maximum operating parameter level as specified in Table 7 to this subpart. Where this subpart does not specify which format to use for your operating limit (
e.g.,
operating range or minimum operating level), you must determine which format is best to establish proper operation of the control device such that you are meeting the emission limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(1) For process vent control devices, the operating limit established for each monitored parameter specified in § 63.11940 must be based on the operating parameter values recorded during any performance test conducted to demonstrate compliance as required by § 63.11925(d)(4) and (e)(4) and may be supplemented by engineering assessments and/or manufacturer's recommendations. You are not required to conduct performance tests over the entire range of allowed operating parameter values. The established operating limit must represent the conditions for which the control device is meeting the emission limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(2) You must include as part of the notification of compliance status or the operating permit application or amendment, the information in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable, for each process
vent control device requiring operating limits.
(i) Descriptions of monitoring devices, monitoring frequencies and operating scenarios.
(ii) The established operating limit of the monitored parameter(s).
(iii) The rationale for the established operating limit, including any data and calculations used to develop the operating limit and a description of why the operating limit indicates proper operation of the control device.
(iv) The rationale used to determine which format to use for your operating limit (
e.g.,
operating range, minimum operating level or maximum operating level), where this subpart does not specify which format to use.
(3) For batch processes, you may establish operating limits for individual batch emission episodes, including each distinct episode of process vent emissions or each individual type of batch process that generates wastewater, if applicable. You must provide rationale in a batch precompliance report as specified in § 63.11985(c)(2) instead of the notification of compliance status for the established operating limit. You must include any data and calculations used to develop the operating limits and a description of why each operating limit indicates proper operation of the control device during the specific batch emission episode.
(4) If you elect to establish separate operating limits for different batch emission episodes within a batch process as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, you must maintain daily records indicating each point at which you change from one operating limit to another, even if the monitoring duration for an operating limit is less than 15 minutes. You must maintain a daily record according to § 63.11990(e)(4)(i).
(e)
Reduction of CPMS and CEMS data.
You must reduce CEMS and CPMS data to 1-hour averages according to § 63.8(g) to compute the average values for demonstrating compliance specified in §§ 63.11925(e)(3)(ii), 63.11925(e)(4)(ii)(B), and 63.11960(c)(2) for CEMS and CPMS, as applicable.
§ 63.11940
What continuous monitoring requirements must I meet for control devices required to install CPMS to meet the emission limits for process vents?
As required in § 63.11925(c), you must install and operate the applicable CPMS specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section for each control device you use to comply with the emission limits for process vents in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart. You must monitor, record, and calculate CPMS data averages as specified in Table 7 to this subpart. Paragraph (h) of this section provides an option to propose alternative monitoring parameters or procedures.
(a)
Flow indicator.
If flow to a control device could be intermittent, you must install, calibrate, and operate a flow indicator at the inlet or outlet of the control device to identify periods of no flow.
(b)
Thermal oxidizer monitoring.
If you are using a thermal oxidizer to meet an emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart and you are required to use CPMS as specified in § 63.11925(c), you must equip the thermal oxidizer with the monitoring equipment specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable.
(1) If a thermal oxidizer other than a catalytic thermal oxidizer is used, you must install a temperature monitoring device in the fire box or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the fire box in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, where a catalytic thermal oxidizer is used, you must install temperature monitoring devices in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed. You must monitor the temperature differential across the catalyst bed.
(3) Instead of complying with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and if the temperature differential between the inlet and outlet of the catalytic thermal oxidizer during normal operating conditions is less than 10 degrees Celsius (18 degrees Fahrenheit), you may elect to monitor the inlet temperature and conduct catalyst checks as specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must conduct annual sampling and analysis of the catalyst activity (
i.e.,
conversion efficiency) following the manufacturer's or catalyst supplier's recommended procedures. If problems are found during the catalyst activity test, you must replace the catalyst bed or take other corrective action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations within 15 days or by the next time any process vent stream is collected by the control device, whichever is sooner.
(ii) You must conduct annual internal inspections of the catalyst bed to check for fouling, plugging, or mechanical breakdown. You must also inspect the bed for channeling, abrasion, and settling. If problems are found during the annual internal inspection of the catalyst, you must replace the catalyst bed or take other corrective action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations within 15 days or by the next time any process vent stream is collected by the control device, whichever is later. If the catalyst bed is replaced and is not of like or better kind and quality as the old catalyst then you must conduct a new performance test according to § 63.11945 to determine destruction efficiency. If a catalyst bed is replaced and the replacement catalyst is of like or better kind and quality as the old catalyst, then a new performance test to determine destruction efficiency is not required.
(c)
Absorber and acid gas scrubber monitoring.
If you are using an absorber or acid gas scrubber to meet an emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart and you are required to use CPMS as specified in § 63.11925(c), you must install the monitoring equipment specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Install and operate the monitoring equipment as specified in either paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i) A flow meter to monitor the absorber or acid gas scrubber influent liquid flow.
(ii) A flow meter to monitor the absorber or acid gas scrubber influent liquid flow and the gas stream flow using one of the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section. You must monitor the liquid-to-gas ratio determined by dividing the flow rate of the absorber or acid gas scrubber influent by the gas flow rate. The units of measure must be consistent with those used to calculate this ratio during the performance test.
(A) Determine gas stream flow using the design blower capacity, with appropriate adjustments for pressure drop.
(B) Measure the gas stream flow at the absorber or acid gas scrubber inlet.
(C) If you have previously determined compliance for a scrubber that requires a determination of the liquid-to-gas ratio, you may use the results of that test provided the test conditions are representative of current operation.
(2) Install and operate the monitoring equipment as specified in either paragraph (c)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(i) Install and operate pressure gauges at the inlet and outlet of the absorber or acid gas scrubber to monitor the pressure drop through the absorber or acid gas scrubber.
(ii) If the difference in the inlet gas stream temperature and the inlet liquid stream temperature is greater than 38 degrees Celsius, you may install and operate a temperature monitoring device at the scrubber gas stream exit.
(iii) If the difference between the specific gravity of the scrubber effluent scrubbing fluid and specific gravity of the scrubber inlet scrubbing fluid is greater than or equal to 0.02 specific gravity units, you may install and operate a specific gravity monitoring device on the inlet and outlet of the scrubber.
(3) If the scrubbing liquid is a reactant (e.g., lime, ammonia hydroxide), you must install and operate one of the devices listed in either paragraph (c)(3)(i), (ii) or (iii) of this section.
(i) A pH monitoring device to monitor the pH of the scrubber liquid effluent.
(ii) A caustic strength monitoring device to monitor the caustic strength of the scrubber liquid effluent.
(iii) A conductivity monitoring device to monitor the conductivity of the scrubber liquid effluent.
(d)
Regenerative adsorber monitoring.
If you are using a regenerative adsorber to meet an emission limit in Table 1 or
2 to this subpart and you are required to use CPMS as specified in § 63.11925(c), you must install and operate the applicable monitoring equipment listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section, and comply with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(6) and (7) of this section. If the adsorption system water is wastewater as defined in § 63.12005, then it is subject to the requirements of § 63.11965.
(1) For non-vacuum regeneration systems, an integrating regeneration stream flow monitoring device having an accuracy of ±10 percent, capable of recording the total regeneration stream mass for each regeneration cycle. For non-vacuum regeneration systems, an integrating regeneration stream flow monitoring device capable of continuously recording the total regeneration stream mass flow for each regeneration cycle.
(2) For non-vacuum regeneration systems, an adsorber bed temperature monitoring device, capable of continuously recording the adsorber bed temperature after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any temperature regulation (cooling or warming to bring bed temperature closer to vent gas temperature) portion of the regeneration cycle.
(3) For non-vacuum and non-steam regeneration systems, an adsorber bed temperature monitoring device capable of continuously recording the bed temperature during regeneration, except during any temperature regulating (cooling or warming to bring bed temperature closer to vent gas temperature) portion of the regeneration cycle.
(4) For a vacuum regeneration system, a pressure transmitter installed in the vacuum pump suction line capable of continuously recording the vacuum level for each minute during regeneration. You must establish a minimum target and a length of time at which the vacuum must be below the minimum target during regeneration.
(5) A device capable of monitoring the regeneration frequency (
i.e.,
operating time since last regeneration) and duration.
(6) You must perform a verification of the adsorber during each day of operation. The verification must be through visual observation or through an automated alarm or shutdown system that monitors and records system operational parameters. The verification must verify that the adsorber is operating with proper valve sequencing and cycle time.
(7) You must conduct weekly measurements of the carbon bed outlet volatile organic compounds concentration over the last 5 minutes of an adsorption cycle for each carbon bed. For regeneration cycles longer than 1 week, you must perform the measurement over the last 5 minutes of each adsorption cycle for each carbon bed. The outlet concentration of volatile organic compounds must be measured using a portable analyzer, in accordance with Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, for open-ended lines. Alternatively, outlet concentration of HAP(s) may be measured using chromatographic analysis using Method 18 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6.
(e)
Non-regenerative adsorber monitoring.
If you are using a non-regenerative adsorber, or canister type system that is sent off site for regeneration or disposal, to meet an emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart and you are required to use CPMS as specified in § 63.11925(c), you must install a system of dual adsorber units in series and conduct the monitoring and bed replacement as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Establish the average adsorber bed life by conducting daily monitoring of the outlet volatile organic compound or HAP concentration, as specified in this paragraph (e)(1), of the first adsorber bed in series until breakthrough occurs for the first three adsorber bed change-outs. The outlet concentration of volatile organic compounds must be measured using a portable analyzer, in accordance with Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, for open-ended lines. Alternatively, outlet concentration of HAP may be measured using chromatographic analysis using Method 18 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6. Breakthrough of the bed is defined as the time when the level of HAP detected is at the highest concentration allowed to be discharged from the adsorber system.
(2) Once the average life of the bed is determined, conduct ongoing monitoring as specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, conduct daily monitoring of the adsorber bed outlet volatile organic compound or HAP concentration, as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(ii) You may conduct monthly monitoring if the adsorbent has more than 2 months of life remaining, as determined by the average primary adsorber bed life, established in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, and the date the adsorbent was last replaced.
(iii) You may conduct weekly monitoring if the adsorbent has more than 2 weeks of life remaining, as determined by the average primary adsorber bed life, established in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, and the date the adsorbent was last replaced.
(3) The first adsorber in series must be replaced immediately when breakthrough is detected between the first and second adsorber. The original second adsorber (or a fresh canister) will become the new first adsorber and a fresh adsorber will become the second adsorber. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(3), “immediately” means within 8 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers of 55 gallons or less, and within 24 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers greater than 55 gallons.
(4) In lieu of replacing the first adsorber immediately, you may elect to monitor the outlet of the second canister beginning on the day the breakthrough between the first and second canister is identified and each day thereafter. This daily monitoring must continue until the first canister is replaced. If the constituent being monitored is detected at the outlet of the second canister during this period of daily monitoring, both canisters must be replaced within 8 hours of the time of detection of volatile organic compounds or HAP at 90 percent of the allowed level (90 percent of breakthrough definition).
(f)
Condenser monitoring.
If you are using a condenser to meet an emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart and you are required to use CPMS as specified in § 63.11925(c), you must install and operate a condenser exit gas temperature monitoring device.
(g)
Other control devices.
If you use a control device other than those listed in this subpart to comply with an emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart and you are required to use CPMS as specified in § 63.11925(c), you must comply with the requirements as specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Submit a description of the planned monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting procedures. The Administrator will approve, deny or modify the proposed monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the plan or through the review of the permit application or by other appropriate means.
(2) You must establish operating limits for monitored parameters that are approved by the Administrator. To establish the operating limit, the information required in § 63.11935(d) must be submitted in the notification of compliance status report specified in § 63.11985(a).
(h)
Alternatives to monitoring requirements.
(1) You may request approval to use alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring listed in this section, as specified in §§ 63.11985(c)(4) and 63.8.
(2) You may request approval to monitor a different parameter than those established in § 63.11935(d) or to set unique monitoring parameters, as specified in §§ 63.11985(c)(5) and 63.8. Until permission to use an alternative monitoring parameter has been granted by the Administrator, you remain subject to the requirements of this subpart.
§ 63.11945
What performance testing requirements must I meet for process vents?
(a)
General.
For each control device used to meet the emission limits for process vents in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, you must conduct the initial and periodic performance tests required in § 63.11925(d) and (e) and as specified in § 63.11896 using the applicable test methods and procedures specified in Table 8 to this subpart and paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.
(b)
Process operating conditions.
You must conduct performance tests under the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests. In all cases, a site-specific plan must be submitted to the Administrator for approval prior to testing in accordance with § 63.7(c). The test plan must include the emission profiles described in § 63.11925(g).
(1)
Continuous process vents.
For continuous process vents, you must conduct all performance tests at maximum representative operating conditions for the process. For continuous compliance, you must conduct subsequent performance tests within the range of operating limit(s) that were established for the control device during the initial or subsequent performance tests specified in § 63.11925(d) and (e). If an operating limit is a range, then you must conduct subsequent performance tests within the range of maximum or minimum operating limits for the control device, which result in highest emissions (
i.e.,
lowest emission reduction).
(2)
Batch process operations.
Testing must be conducted at absolute worst-case conditions or hypothetical worst-case conditions as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(3)
Combination of both continuous and batch unit operations.
You must conduct performance tests when the batch process vents are operating at absolute worst-case conditions or hypothetical worst-case conditions, as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, and at maximum representative operating conditions for the process. For continuous compliance, you must operate the control device as close as possible to your operating limit(s) for the control device established during the initial or subsequent performance tests specified in § 63.11925 (d) and (e). If an operating limit is a range, then you must operate the control device as close as possible to the maximum or minimum operating limit for the control device, whichever results in higher emissions (
i.e.,
lower emission reduction), unless the Administrator specifies or approves alternate operating conditions.
(c)
Batch worst-case conditions.
The absolute worst-case conditions for batch process operations must be characterized by the criteria presented in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The hypothetical worst-case conditions for batch process operations must be characterized by the criteria presented in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(1)
Absolute worst-case conditions.
For batch process operations, absolute worst-case conditions are defined by the criteria presented in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section if the maximum load is the most challenging condition for the control device. Otherwise, absolute worst-case conditions are defined by the conditions in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section. You must consider all relevant factors, including load and compound-specific characteristics in defining absolute worst-case conditions.
(i) A 1-hour period of time in which the inlet to the control device contains the highest HAP mass loading rate, in pounds per hour, capable of being vented to the control device. An emission profile as described in § 63.11925(g) must be used to identify the 1-hour period of maximum HAP loading.
(ii) The period of time when the HAP loading or stream composition (including non-HAP) is most challenging for the control device. These conditions include, but are not limited to the following:
(A) Periods when the stream contains the highest combined organic load, in pounds per hour, described by the emission profiles in § 63.11925(g).
(B) Periods when the streams contain HAP constituents that approach limits of solubility for scrubbing media.
(C) Periods when the streams contain HAP constituents that approach limits of adsorptivity for adsorption systems.
(2)
Hypothetical worst-case conditions.
For batch process operations, hypothetical worst-case conditions are simulated test conditions that, at a minimum, contain the highest hourly HAP load of emissions that would be predicted to be vented to the control device based on the emissions profiles described in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) or (iii) of this section.
(3)
Emission profile.
For batch process operations, you must develop an emission profile for the vent to the control device that describes the characteristics of the vent stream at the inlet to the control device under worst-case conditions. The emission profile must be developed based on any one of the procedures described in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i)
Emission profile by process.
The emission profile must consider all batch emission episodes that could contribute to the vent stack for a period of time that is sufficient to include all processes venting to the stack and must consider production scheduling. The profile must describe the HAP load to the device that equals the highest sum of emissions from the episodes that can vent to the control device in any given hour. Emissions per episode must be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.11950. Emissions per episode must be divided by the duration of the episode only if the duration of the episode is longer than 1 hour.
(ii)
Emission profile by equipment.
The emission profile must consist of emissions that meet or exceed the highest emissions, in pounds per hour that would be expected under actual processing conditions. The profile must describe equipment configurations used to generate the emission events, volatility of materials processed in the equipment, and the rationale used to identify and characterize the emission events. The emissions may be based on using a compound more volatile than compounds actually used in the process(es), and the emissions may be generated from all equipment in the process(es) or only selected equipment.
(iii)
Emission profile by capture and control device limitation.
The emission profile must consider the capture and control system limitations and the highest emissions, in pounds per hour that can be routed to the control device, based on maximum flow rate and concentrations possible because of limitations on conveyance and control equipment (e.g., fans and lower explosive level alarms).
(d)
Concentration correction calculation.
If a combustion device is the control device and supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, the concentration of total hydrocarbons, total organic HAP, vinyl chloride, and hydrogen chloride must be corrected as specified in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section. If a control device other than a combustion device is used to comply with an outlet concentration emission limit for batch process vents, you must correct the actual concentration for supplemental gases as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(1) Determine the concentration of total hydrocarbons, total organic HAP, vinyl chloride, or hydrogen chloride corrected to 3-percent oxygen (Cc) using Equation 1 of this section.
ER17AP12.002
Where:
C
c
= Concentration of total hydrocarbons, total organic HAP, vinyl chloride, or hydrogen chloride corrected to 3-percent oxygen, dry basis, parts per million by volume.
C
m
= Concentration of total hydrocarbons, total organic HAP, vinyl chloride, or hydrogen chloride, dry basis, parts per million by volume.
%O
2d
= Concentration of oxygen, dry basis, percentage by volume.
(2) To determine the oxygen concentration, you must use the emission rate correction factor (or excess air), integrated sampling and analysis procedures of Method 3, 3A, or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
(3) Correct the measured concentration for supplemental gases using Equation 2 of this section. Process
knowledge and representative operating data may be used to determine the fraction of the total flow due to supplemental gas.
ER17AP12.003
Where:
C
a
= Corrected outlet concentration of HAP, dry basis, parts per million by volume (ppmv).
C
m
= Actual concentration of HAP measured at control device outlet, dry basis, ppmv.
Q
a
= Total volumetric flow rate of all gas streams vented to the control device, except supplemental gases.
Q
s
= total volumetric flow rate of supplemental gases.
§ 63.11950
What emissions calculations must I use for an emission profile?
When developing your emission profiles for batch process vents as required in § 63.11925(g), except as specified in paragraph (i) of this section, you must calculate emissions from episodes caused by vapor displacement, purging a partially filled vessel, heating, depressurization, vacuum operations, gas evolution, air drying, or empty vessel purging, using the applicable procedures in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.
(a)
Vapor displacement.
You must calculate emissions from vapor displacement due to transfer of material using Equation 1 of this section.
ER17AP12.004
(Eq. 1)
Where:
E = Mass of HAP emitted.
V = Volume of gas displaced from the vessel.
R = Ideal gas law constant.
T = Temperature of the vessel vapor space; absolute.
P
i
= Partial pressure of the individual HAP.
MW
i
= Molecular weight of the individual HAP.
n = Number of HAP compounds in the emission stream.
i = Identifier for a HAP compound.
(b)
Gas sweep of a partially filled vessel.
You must calculate emissions from purging a partially filled vessel using Equation 2 of this section. The pressure of the vessel vapor space may be set equal to 760 millimeters of mercury (mmHg). You must multiply the HAP partial pressure in Equation 2 of this section by a HAP-specific saturation factor determined in accordance with Equations 3 through 5 of this section. Solve Equation 3 of this section iteratively beginning with saturation factors (in the right-hand side of the equation) of 1.0 for each condensable compound. Stop iterating when the calculated saturation factors for all compounds are the same to two significant figures for subsequent iterations. Note that for multi-component emission streams, saturation factors must be calculated for all condensable compounds, not just the HAP.
ER17AP12.005
(Eq. 2)
Where:
E = Mass of HAP emitted.
V = Purge flow rate of the noncondensable gas at the temperature and pressure of the vessel vapor space.
R = Ideal gas law constant.
T = Temperature of the vessel vapor space; absolute.
P
i
= Partial pressure of the individual HAP at saturated conditions.
P
j
= Partial pressure of individual condensable compounds (including HAP) at saturated conditions.
P
T
= Pressure of the vessel vapor space.
MW
i
= Molecular weight of the individual HAP.
t = Time of purge.
n = Number of HAP compounds in the emission stream.
i = Identifier for a HAP compound.
j = Identifier for a condensable compound.
m = Number of condensable compounds (including HAP) in the emission stream.
ER17AP12.006
Where:
S
i
= Saturation factor for individual condensable compounds.
P
i
= Partial pressure of individual condensable compounds at saturated conditions.
PT = Pressure of the vessel vapor space.
A = Surface area of liquid.
V = Purge flow rate of the noncondensable gas.
V
i
sat
= Volumetric flow rate of individual condensable compounds at saturated vapor pressure.
K
i
= Mass transfer coefficient of individual condensable compounds in the emission stream.
K
o
= Mass transfer coefficient of reference compound (
e.g.,
0.83 cm/s for water).
M
o
= Molecular weight of reference compound (
e.g.,
18.02 for water).
M
i
= Molecular weight of individual condensable compounds in the emission stream.
n = Number of condensable compounds in the emission stream.
(c)
Heating.
You must calculate emissions caused by the heating of a vessel to a temperature lower than the boiling point using the procedures in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If the contents of a vessel are heated to the boiling point, you must calculate emissions using the procedures in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(1) If the final temperature to which the vessel contents are heated is lower than the boiling point of the HAP in the vessel, you must calculate the mass of HAP emitted per episode using Equation 6 of this section. The average gas space molar volume during the heating process is calculated using Equation 7 of this section. The difference in the number of moles of condensable in the vessel headspace between the initial and final temperatures is calculated using Equation 8 of this section.
ER17AP12.007
(Eq. 6)
Where:
E = Mass of HAP vapor displaced from the vessel being heated.
N
avg
= Average gas space molar volume during the heating process.
P
T
= Total pressure in the vessel.
P
i,1
= Partial pressure of the individual HAP compounds at initial temperature (T
1
).
P
i,2
= Partial pressure of the individual HAP compounds at final temperature (T
2
).
MW
HAP
= Average molecular weight of the HAP compounds calculated using Equation 13 of this section.
n
i,1
= Number of moles of condensable in the vessel headspace at initial temperature (T
1
).
n
i,2
= Number of moles of condensable in the vessel headspace at final temperature (T
2
).
n = Number of HAP compounds in the emission stream.
ln = Natural logarithm.
ER17AP12.008
(Eq. 7)
Where:
N
avg
= Average gas space molar volume during the heating process.
V = Volume of free space in vessel.
P
T
= Total pressure in the vessel.
R = Ideal gas law constant.
T
1
= Initial temperature of the vessel.
T
2
= Final temperature of the vessel.
ER17AP12.009
Where:
V = Volume of free space in vessel.
R = Ideal gas law constant.
T
1
= Initial temperature in the vessel.
T
2
= Final temperature in the vessel.
P
i,1
= Partial pressure of the individual HAP compounds at T
1
.
P
i,2
= Partial pressure of the individual HAP compounds at T
2
.
n = Number of HAP compounds in the emission stream.
(2) If the final temperature to which the vessel contents are heated is at the boiling point or higher, you must calculate emissions using the procedure in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) To calculate the emissions from heating to the boiling point use Equations 9, 10 and 11 of this section. (Note that Pa
2
= 0 in the calculation of Δη in Equation 10 of this section.)
ER17AP12.010
Where:
E = Mass of HAP emitted.
Δη = The number of moles of noncondensable displaced from the vessel, as calculated using Equation 10 of this section.
P
T
= Pressure in the receiver.
P
i
= Partial pressure of the individual HAP determined at the exit temperature of the condenser or at the conditions of the dedicated receiver.
P
j
= Partial pressure of the individual condensable (including HAP) determined at the exit temperature of the condenser or at the conditions of the dedicated receiver.
n = Number of HAP compounds in the emission stream.
i = Identifier for a HAP compound.
j = Identifier for a condensable compound.
MW
HAP
= The average molecular weight of HAP in vapor exiting the dedicated receiver, as calculated using Equation 11 of this section with partial pressures determined at the exit temperature and exit pressure conditions of the condenser or at the conditions of the dedicated receiver.
m = Number of condensable compounds (including HAP) in the emission stream.
ER17AP12.011
ER17AP12.012
Where:
Δη = Number of moles of noncondensable gas displaced from the vessel.
V = Volume of free space in the vessel.
R = Ideal gas law constant.
T
1
= Initial temperature of vessel contents, absolute.
T
2
= Final temperature of vessel contents, absolute.
Pan = Partial pressure of noncondensable gas in the vessel headspace at initial (n = 1) and final (n = 2) temperature.
MW
HAP
= The average molecular weight of HAP in vapor exiting the dedicated receiver.
(P
i
)Tn = Partial pressure of each HAP in the vessel headspace at initial (T
1
) and final (T
2
) temperature of the receiver.
MW
i
= Molecular weight of the individual HAP.
n = Number of HAP compounds in the emission stream.
i = Identifier for a HAP compound.
(ii) While boiling, the vessel must be operated with a properly operated process condenser. An initial demonstration that a process condenser is properly operated must be conducted during the boiling operation and documented in the notification of compliance status report described in § 63.11985(a). You must either measure the liquid temperature in the receiver or the temperature of the gas stream exiting the condenser and show it is less than the boiling or bubble point of the HAP in the vessel; or perform a material balance around the vessel and condenser and show that at least 99 percent of the recovered HAP vaporized while boiling is condensed. This demonstration is not required if the process condenser is followed by a condenser acting as a control device or if the control device is monitored using a CEMS.
(d)
Depressurization.
You must calculate emissions from depressurization using Equation 12 of this section.
ER17AP12.013
Where:
E = Emissions.
V = Free volume in vessel being depressurized.
R = Ideal gas law constant.
T = Temperature of the vessel, absolute.
P
1
= Initial pressure in the vessel.
P
2
= Final pressure in the vessel.
P
j
= Partial pressure of the individual condensable compounds (including HAP).
MW
i
= Molecular weight of the individual HAP compounds.
n = Number of HAP compounds in the emission stream.
m = Number of condensable compounds (including HAP) in the emission stream.
i = Identifier for a HAP compound.
j = Identifier for a condensable compound.
ln = Natural logarithm.
(e)
Vacuum systems.
You must calculate emissions from vacuum systems using Equation 13 of this section if the
air leakage rate is known or can be approximated. The receiving vessel is part of the vacuum system for purposes of this subpart.
ER17AP12.014
Where:
E = Mass of HAP emitted.
P
T
= Absolute pressure of receiving vessel or ejector outlet conditions, if there is no receiver.
P
i
= Partial pressure of the HAP at the receiver temperature or the ejector outlet conditions.
P
j
= Partial pressure of condensable (including HAP) at the receiver temperature or the ejector outlet conditions.
La = Total air leak rate in the system, mass/time.
MW
nc
= Molecular weight of noncondensable gas.
t = Time of vacuum operation.
MWi = Molecular weight of the individual HAP in the emission stream, with HAP partial pressures calculated at the temperature of the receiver or ejector outlet, as appropriate.
(f)
Gas evolution.
You must calculate emissions from gas evolution using Equation 13 in paragraph (e) of this section with mass flow rate of gas evolution, Wg, substituted for La.
(g)
Air drying.
You must calculate emissions from air drying using Equation 14 of this section:
ER17AP12.015
Where:
E = Mass of HAP emitted.
B = Mass of dry solids.
PS
1
= HAP in material entering dryer, weight percent.
PS
2
= HAP in material exiting dryer, weight percent.
(h)
Empty vessel purging.
You must calculate emissions from empty vessel purging using Equation 15 of this section (Note: The term e-Ft/v can be assumed to be 0):
ER17AP12.016
Where:
V = Volume of empty vessel.
R = Ideal gas law constant.
T = Temperature of the vessel vapor space; absolute.
P
i
= Partial pressure of the individual HAP at the beginning of the purge.
MW
i
= Molecular weight of the individual HAP.
F = Flow rate of the purge gas.
t = Duration of the purge.
n = Number of HAP compounds in the emission stream.
i = Identifier for a HAP compound.
(i)
Engineering assessments.
You must conduct an engineering assessment to calculate HAP emissions or emission episodes from each process vent that are not due to vapor displacement, partially filled vessel purging, heating, depressurization, vacuum operations, gas evolution, air drying or empty vessel purging. An engineering assessment may also be used to support a finding that the emissions estimation equations in this section are inappropriate. All data, assumptions and procedures used in the engineering assessment must be documented, are subject to preapproval by the Administrator, and must be reported in the batch precompliance report. An engineering assessment should include, but is not limited to, the items listed in paragraphs (i)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Previous test results provided the tests are representative of current operating practices at the process unit.
(2) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions.
(3) Maximum flow rate, HAP emission rate, concentration, or other relevant parameter specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the process vent.
(4) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to the following:
(i) Use of material balances based on process stoichiometry to estimate maximum organic HAP concentrations.
(ii) Estimation of maximum flow rate based on physical equipment design such as pump or blower capacities.
(iii) Estimation of HAP concentrations based on saturation conditions.
§ 63.11955
What are my initial and continuous compliance requirements for other emission sources?
(a) Before opening any process component (including pre-polymerization reactors used in the manufacture of bulk resins) for any reason, the quantity of vinyl chloride must be reduced to an amount that occupies a volume of no more than 2.0 percent of the component's or equipment's containment volume, or 25 gallons, whichever is larger, at standard temperature and pressure.
(b) Before opening a polymerization reactor for any reason, the quantity of vinyl chloride is not to exceed 0.04 pounds per ton of PVC product, with the product determined on a dry solids basis.
(c) Any gas or vapor HAP removed from a process component in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be vented to a closed vent system and control device meeting the requirements of §§ 63.11925 through 63.11950.
(d) Each gasholder in vinyl chloride service must meet the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Each gasholder must be vented to a closed vent system and control device meeting the requirements of §§ 63.11925 through 63.11950.
(2) Each gasholder must operate with one or more of the following installed on the water seal to reduce emissions:
(i) Floating balls;
(ii) Hollow floating disks;
(iii) Oil layer; and/or
(iv) Floating mats.
(3) Each gasholder must have established operating procedures that include provisions for ensuring that the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section are met at all times except during periods of maintenance or repair. The standard operating procedures must be developed and implemented and made available to the Administrator upon request.
§ 63.11956
What are my compliance requirements for ambient monitoring?
You must operate a reliable and accurate vinyl chloride monitoring system for detection of major leaks and identification of the general area of the affected source where a leak is located. A vinyl chloride monitoring system means a device which obtains air samples from one or more points on a continuous sequential basis and analyzes the samples with gas chromatography
or, if you assume that all hydrocarbons measured are vinyl chloride, analyzes the samples with infrared spectrophotometry, flame ion detection, or an equivalent or alternative method. You must operate the vinyl chloride monitoring system according to a program that you develop for your affected source. You must submit a description of the program to the Administrator within 45 days of your compliance date, unless a waiver of compliance is granted by the Administrator, or the program has been approved and the Administrator does not request a review of the program. Approval of a program will be granted by the Administrator provided the Administrator finds:
(a) The location and number of points to be monitored and the frequency of monitoring provided for in the program are acceptable when they are compared with the number of pieces of equipment in vinyl chloride service and size and physical layout of the affected source.
(b) It contains a definition of leak which is acceptable when compared with the background concentrations of vinyl chloride in the areas of the plant to be monitored by the vinyl chloride monitoring system. Measurements of background concentrations of vinyl chloride in the areas of the plant to be monitored by the vinyl chloride monitoring system are to be included with the description of the program. The definition of leak for a given plant may vary among the different areas within the plant and is also to change over time as background concentrations in the plant are reduced.
(c) It contains an acceptable plan of action to be taken when a leak is detected.
(d) It provides for an acceptable calibration and maintenance schedule for the vinyl chloride monitoring system and portable hydrocarbon detector. For the vinyl chloride monitoring system, a daily span check must be conducted with a concentration of vinyl chloride equal to the concentration defined as a leak according to paragraph (b) of this section. The calibration must be done with either:
(1) A calibration gas mixture prepared from the gases specified in sections 7.2.1 and 7.2.2 of Method 106 at 40 CFR part 61, appendix B, and in accordance with section 10.1 of Method 106, or
(2) A calibration gas cylinder standard containing the appropriate concentration of vinyl chloride. The gas composition of the calibration gas cylinder standard must have been certified by the manufacturer. The manufacturer must have recommended a maximum shelf life for each cylinder so that the concentration does not change greater than ±5 percent from the certified value. The date of gas cylinder preparation, certified vinyl chloride concentration, and recommended maximum shelf life must have been affixed to the cylinder before shipment from the manufacturer to the buyer. If a gas chromatograph is used as the vinyl chloride monitoring system, these gas mixtures may be directly used to prepare a chromatograph calibration curve as described in Sections 8.1 and 9.2 of Method 106. The requirements in Sections 7.2.3.1 and 7.2.3.2 of Method 106 for certification of cylinder standards and for establishment and verification of calibration standards are to be followed.
§ 63.11960
What are my initial and continuous compliance requirements for stripped resin?
(a)
Emission limits.
You must meet the applicable vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP emission limits for stripped resin specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(b)
Determination of total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP.
You must develop a facility-specific list of HAP that are expected to be present in each grade of resin produced by your PVCPU. This list must be continuously updated and must be available for inspection by the Administrator. This list must include the identification of each grade of resin produced, each HAP expected to be present in that grade of resin, and the CAS number for each HAP.
(1) For the purposes of demonstrating initial and continuous compliance as required in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, you must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) You must analyze each resin sample for all Table 10 HAP using the test
methods specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(ii) You must also analyze each resin sample for any HAP that are not a Table 10 HAP but are expected to be present in that resin sample based on your facility-specific list of HAP using the appropriate test method specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) [Reserved]
(c)
Demonstration of initial compliance.
You must demonstrate initial compliance for each resin stripper or for each group of resin strippers used to process the same resin type.
(1) You must conduct an initial performance test for the resin stripper, measuring the concentration of vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP in the stripped resin at the outlet of each resin stripper as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Use the test method(s) and procedures specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(ii) Collect samples when the PVCPU is producing the resin grade of which you manufacture the most, based on the total mass per resin grade of a given resin type produced in the 12 months preceding the sampling event.
(iii) For continuous processes, during a 24-hour sampling period, for each resin grade produced, collect 1 grab sample at intervals of 8 hours or per grade of PVC produced, whichever is more frequent. Each sample must be taken as the resin flows out of the stripper.
(iv) For batch processes, during a 24-hour sampling period, for each batch of each resin grade produced, collect 1 grab sample for each batch. Each sample must be taken immediately following the completion of the stripping operation.
(2) Demonstrate initial compliance with the vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Calculate the 24-hour arithmetic average vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentrations for each stripper for each resin grade produced during the 24-hour sampling period, using the vinyl chloride and non vinyl-chloride HAP concentrations measured for the grab samples collected as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section and using the calculation procedure specified in paragraph (f) of this section to determine the total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration of each sample.
(ii) Demonstrate compliance with the vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart based on the 24-hour arithmetic average concentrations calculated in either paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.
(A) If more than one resin grade was produced during the 24-hour sampling period, use Equation 1 of this section to calculate the 24-hour grade weighted arithmetic average vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentrations for each stripper, or for each group of strippers used to process the same type of resin, using the 24-hour average vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentrations calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section and the mass of each resin grade produced during the 24-hour sampling period.
ER17AP12.017
Where:
A
T
= 24-hour average concentration of resin type T, parts per million by weight (dry basis).
P
Gi
= Production of resin grade G
i
, pounds.
C
Gi
= 24-hour average concentration of vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP in resin grade G
i
, ppmw.
Q
T
= Total production of resin type T over the 24-hour sampling period, pounds.
(B) If only one resin grade was produced during the 24-hour sampling event, use the 24-hour arithmetic average vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentrations for the one resin grade calculated as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section for each stripper or calculate the 24-hour arithmetic average vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentrations for all strippers used to process the one grade of resin.
(d)
Demonstration of continuous compliance.
You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each resin stripper or for each group of resin strippers used to process the same resin type.
(1) On a daily basis, you must measure the concentration of vinyl chloride in stripped resin using the test method(s) and procedures specified in paragraph (e) of this section, and the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section.
(2) On a monthly basis, you must measure the concentration of total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP in stripped resin using the test method(s) and procedures specified in paragraph (e) of this section, and the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section.
(3) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP emission limit for stripped resin in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(e)
Test methods and procedures for determining concentration of vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP.
You must determine the concentration of vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP using the test methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(1) For measuring total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP, you must use the methods specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) SW-846-8260B (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of volatile organic compounds listed in Table 10 of this subpart.
(ii) SW-846-8270D (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of semivolatile organic compounds listed in table 10 of this subpart.
(iii) SW-846-8315A (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of aldehyde compounds listed in table 10 of this subpart.
(iv) SW-846-8015C (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of alcohol compounds listed in table 10 of this subpart.
(2) For measuring vinyl chloride, you must use Method 107 at 40 CFR part 61, appendix B.
(3) When using the methods specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, for sample collection, preservation, transport, and analysis, you must minimize loss of HAP and maintain sample integrity.
(f)
Method for calculating total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration.
For each stripped resin sample analyzed using the methods specified in paragraph (e) of this section, calculate the sum of the measured concentrations of each HAP analyzed as required in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section by using Equation 2 to this section.
ER17AP12.018
Where:
C
TNVCH
= Concentration of total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP compounds in the stripped resin sample, in parts per million by weight (ppmw).
C
i
= Concentration of individual HAP present in the stripped resin sample analyzed
pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section excluding vinyl chloride, in ppmw, where a value of zero should be used for any HAP concentration that is below the detection limit.
§ 63.11965
What are my general compliance requirements for wastewater?
(a) The concentration of vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP in each process wastewater stream containing greater than the limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, measured immediately as it leaves a piece of process equipment and before being mixed with any other process wastewater stream, must be reduced to the limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart. The applicable limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart must be met before the process wastewater stream is mixed with any other process wastewater stream containing vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentrations less than the applicable limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, before being exposed to the atmosphere, and before being discharged from the affected source.
(b)
Initial determination of process wastewater streams that need to be treated.
You must determine which process wastewater streams require treatment as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section and meet the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(1) You must collect process wastewater samples as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) For treated process wastewater streams, you must collect process wastewater samples at the outlet of the treatment process and before the process wastewater stream is mixed with any other process wastewater stream containing vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentrations less than the applicable limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, before being exposed to the atmosphere, and before being discharged from the affected source.
(ii) For untreated process wastewater streams, you must collect process wastewater samples at the location immediately as the stream leaves a piece of process equipment, before being mixed with any other process stream or process wastewater stream, before being exposed to the atmosphere, and before being discharged from the affected source.
(2) You must measure the concentration of vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP using the test methods and procedures specified in § 63.11980.
(c)
Requirements for process wastewater streams that must be treated.
Each process wastewater stream that has a vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration equal to or greater than the limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, determined pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must be treated to reduce the concentration of vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP to below the applicable limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart. You must route wastewater streams through hard-piping to the treatment process and route the vent stream from the treatment process to a closed vent system and control device meeting the requirements of §§ 63.11925 through 63.11950. You must also meet the initial and continuous compliance requirements specified in § 63.11970(a) and § 63.11975.
(d)
Requirements for process wastewater streams that do not need to be treated.
For each process wastewater stream that has a vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration less than the limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, determined pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, you must meet the initial and continuous compliance requirements specified in §§ 63.11970(b) and 63.11975(c).
(e)
Maintenance wastewater.
You must comply with the requirements specified in § 63.105 of subpart F of this part.
(f)
Determination of total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP.
You must develop a facility-specific list of HAP that are expected to be present in each process wastewater stream at your PVCPU. This list must be continuously updated and must be available for inspection by the Administrator. This list must include the identification of each HAP expected to be present in each process wastewater stream, and the CAS number for each HAP.
(1) For the purposes of demonstrating initial and continuous compliance as required in §§ 63.11970 and 63.11975 of this subpart, you must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) You must analyze each process wastewater sample for all HAP listed in Table 10 to this subpart using the test methods specified in § 63.11980(a)(2) and (3).
(ii) You must also analyze each process wastewater sample for any HAP that are not listed in Table 10 to this subpart but are expected to be present in that sample based on your facility-specific list of HAP using the appropriate test method specified in § 63.11980(a)(2).
(2) [Reserved]
§ 63.11970
What are my initial compliance requirements for process wastewater?
(a)
Demonstration of initial compliance for process wastewater streams that must be treated.
For each process wastewater stream that must be treated as specified in § 63.11965(b) and (c), you must conduct an initial performance test for the wastewater treatment process, measuring the concentration of vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP in the wastewater stream at the outlet of the wastewater treatment process before the wastewater is exposed to the atmosphere, mixed with any other process stream, and before being discharged from the affected facility, using the test method(s) and procedures specified in § 63.11980(a).
(b)
Demonstration of initial compliance for process wastewater streams that are not required to be treated.
For each process wastewater stream that has a vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration less than the limits specified in Tables 1 or 2 to this subpart, you must use the measurement specified in § 63.11965(b)(1)(ii) to demonstrate initial compliance.
§ 63.11975
What are my continuous compliance requirements for process wastewater?
(a) For each process wastewater stream that must be treated to reduce the concentration of vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP as specified in § 63.11965(b) and (c), you must demonstrate continuous compliance as specified in paragraph (b) of this section. For each process wastewater stream for which you initially determine in § 63.11970(b) that treatment is not required to reduce either vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration, you must demonstrate continuous compliance as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) For each process wastewater stream that must be treated according to § 63.11965(b), you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits for vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart by following the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Following your demonstration of initial compliance in § 63.11970(a), make monthly measurements of the vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentrations using the procedures and methods specified in § 63.11965(b)(1) and (2).
(2) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart on a monthly basis, using the monthly concentration measurement specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c) For each wastewater stream for which you initially determine in § 63.11970(b) that treatment is not required to reduce the vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration, you must demonstrate continuous compliance as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Conduct annual performance tests, measuring the vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentrations using the procedures and methods specified in § 63.11965(b)(1) and (2).
(2) If any annual performance test conducted as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section results in a concentration of vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP in the process wastewater stream that is greater than or equal to the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, then you must meet the requirements
of § 63.11965(c) and you must demonstrate initial and continuous compliance as specified in § 63.11970 and this section.
§ 63.11980
What are the test methods and calculation procedures for process wastewater?
(a)
Performance test methods and procedures.
You must determine the concentration of vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP using the test methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(1) You must conduct performance tests during worst-case operating conditions for the PVCPU when the process wastewater treatment process is operating as close as possible to maximum operating conditions. If the wastewater treatment process will be operating at several different sets of operating conditions, you must supplement the testing with additional testing, modeling or engineering assessments to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits.
(2) For measuring total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP, you must conduct sampling and analysis using the methods specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) SW-846-8260B (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of volatile organic compounds listed in Table 10 of this subpart.
(ii) SW-846-8270D (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of semivolatile organic compounds.
(iii) SW-846-8315A (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of aldehyde compounds.
(iv) SW-846-8015C (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of alcohol compounds.
(3) For measuring vinyl chloride, you must use Method 107 at 40 CFR part 61, appendix B.
(4) When using the methods in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Sample collection may consist of grab or composite samples.
(ii) Samples must be taken before the process wastewater stream is exposed to the atmosphere.
(iii) You must ensure that sample collection, preservation, transport, and analysis minimizes loss of HAP and maintains sample integrity.
(b) Method for calculating total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration. For each process wastewater stream analyzed using the methods specified in paragraph (a) of this section, calculate the sum of the measured concentrations of each HAP analyzed as required in § 63.11965(f)(1) by using Equation 1 to this section.
ER17AP12.019
Where:
C
TNVCH
= Concentration of total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP, in parts per million by weight (ppmw).
C
i
= Concentration of individual HAP present in the sample analyzed pursuant to § 63.11965(f)(1) excluding vinyl chloride, in ppmw, where a value of zero should be used for any HAP concentration that is below the detection limit.

# Notifications, Reports and Records
§ 63.11985
What notifications and reports must I submit and when?
In addition to the notifications and reports required in subpart A of this part, as specified in Table 4 to this subpart, you must submit the additional information and reports specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, as applicable.
(a)
Notification of compliance status.
When submitting the notification of compliance status required in § 63.9(h), you must also include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section, as applicable.
(1) You must include an identification of the storage vessels subject to this subpart, including the capacity and liquid stored for each vessel. You must submit the information specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for each pressure vessel.
(2) You must include the information specified in § 63.1039(a) for equipment leaks.
(3) You must include an identification of the heat exchange systems that are subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(4) You must include the operating limit for each monitoring parameter identified for each control device used to meet the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, as determined pursuant to § 63.11935(d). This report must include the information in § 63.11935(d)(2), as applicable.
(5) You must include the records specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable, for process vents.
(i) You must include the performance test records specified in § 63.11990(f)(1), as applicable. These reports must include one complete test report for each test method used for each process vent. A complete test report must include a brief process description, sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations and any other information required by the test method. For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, the results and any other information required in applicable sections of this subpart must be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.
(ii) You must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section for batch process vent operations.
(A) Descriptions of worst-case operating and/or testing conditions for control devices including results of emissions profiles.
(B) Calculations used to demonstrate initial compliance according to §§ 63.11945 and 63.11950, including documentation of the proper operation of a process condenser(s) as specified in § 63.11950(c)(2)(ii).
(C) Data and rationale used to support an engineering assessment to calculate emissions in accordance with § 63.11950(i).
(iii) If you use a control device other than those listed in § 63.11940 for your process vent, then you must include a description of the parameters to be monitored to ensure the control device is operated in conformance with its design and achieves the specified emission limitation; an explanation of the criteria used to select the parameter; and a description of the methods and procedures that will be used to demonstrate that the parameter indicates proper operation of the control device, the schedule for this demonstration, and a statement that you will establish an operating limit for the monitored parameter as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(6) [Reserved]
(7) You must include the records specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable, for resin strippers.
(i) You must include an identification of each resin stripper and resin type subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(ii) You must include results of the initial testing used to determine initial compliance with the stripped resin limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(8) You must include the records specified in paragraphs (a)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable, for process wastewater.
(i) You must include an identification of each process wastewater stream subject to the requirements of this subpart, and the results of your determination for each stream as to whether it must be treated to meet the limits of Table 1 or 2 to this subpart. You must
also include a description of the treatment process to be used for each process wastewater stream that requires treatment.
(ii) You must include results of the initial sampling used to determine initial compliance with the vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(9) You must include a certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, as applicable that states the following:
(i) “This facility complies with the requirements in this subpart for storage vessels.”
(ii) “This facility complies with the requirements in this subpart for equipment leaks.”
(iii) “This facility complies with the requirements in this subpart for heat exchange systems.”
(iv) “This facility complies with the requirements in this subpart for HAP emissions from process vents.”
(v) “This facility complies with the requirements in this subpart for other emission sources.”
(vi) “This facility complies with the requirements in this subpart for the stripped resin.”
(vii) “This facility complies with the requirements in this subpart for wastewater.”
(b)
Compliance reports.
When submitting the excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required in § 63.10(e)(3), you must also include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (12) of this section, as applicable. This report is referred to in this subpart as your compliance report.
(1) You must include a copy of the inspection record specified in § 63.11990(b)(2) for each storage vessel when a defect, failure, or leak is detected. You must also include a copy of the applicable information specified in § 63.1039(b)(5) through (8) of subpart UU of this part for each pressure vessel.
(2) You must include the information specified in § 63.1039(b) for equipment leaks, except for releases from pressure relief devices. For any releases from pressure relief devices, you must submit the report specified in paragraph (c)(7) of this section instead of the information specified in § 63.1039(b)(4) of subpart UU of this part.
(3) You must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section for heat exchange systems.
(i) The number of heat exchange systems in HAP service.
(ii) The number of heat exchange systems in HAP service found to be leaking.
(iii) A summary of the monitoring data that indicate a leak, including the number of leaks determined to be equal to or greater than the leak definition.
(iv) If applicable, the date a leak was identified, the date the source of the leak was identified and the date of repair.
(v) If applicable, a summary of each delayed repair, including the original date and reason for the delay and the date of repair, if repaired during the reporting period.
(vi) If applicable, an estimate of total VOC or vinyl chloride emissions for each delayed repair over the reporting period.
(4) You must include the records specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable, for process vents, resin strippers, and wastewater.
(i) Deviations using CEMS or CPMS. For each deviation from an emission limit or operating limit where a CEMS or CPMS is being used to comply with the process vent emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(A) through (E) of this section.
(A) For CEMS, the 3-hour block average value calculated for any period when the value is higher than an emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart or when the value does not meet the data availability requirements defined in § 63.11890(c).
(B) For CPMS, the average value calculated for any day (based on the data averaging periods for compliance specified in Table 5 to this subpart) that does not meet your operating limit established according to § 63.11935(d) or that does not meet the data availability requirements specified in § 63.11890(c).
(C) The cause for the calculated emission level or operating parameter
level to not meet the established emission limit or operating limit.
(D) For deviations caused by lack of monitoring data, the duration of periods when monitoring data were not collected.
(E) Operating logs of batch process operations for each day during which the deviation occurred, including a description of the operating scenario(s) during the deviation.
(ii) New operating scenario. Include each new operating scenario that has been operated since the time period covered by the last compliance report and has not been submitted in the notification of compliance status report or a previous compliance report. For each new operating scenario, you must provide verification that the operating conditions for any associated control or treatment device have not been exceeded and constitute proper operation for the new operating scenario. You must provide any required calculations and engineering analyses that have been performed for the new operating scenario. For the purposes of this paragraph (b)(4)(ii), a revised operating scenario for an existing process is considered to be a new operating scenario when one or more of the data elements listed in § 63.11990(e)(4) have changed.
(iii) Process changes. You must document process changes, or changes made to any of the information submitted in the notification of compliance status report or a previous compliance report, that is not within the scope of an existing operating scenario, in the compliance report. The notification must include all of the information in paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) A description of the process change.
(B) Revisions to any of the information reported in the original notification of compliance status report as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(C) Information required by the notification of compliance status report, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, for changes involving the addition of processes, components, or equipment at the affected source.
(5) You must submit the applicable information specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section for process vents.
(i) For catalytic thermal oxidizers for which you have selected the alternative monitoring specified in § 63.11940(b)(3), results of the annual catalyst sampling and inspections required by § 63.11940(b)(3)(i) and (ii) including any subsequent corrective actions taken.
(ii) For regenerative adsorbers, results of the adsorber bed outlet volatile organic compounds concentration measurements specified in § 63.11940(d)(7).
(iii) For non-regenerative adsorbers, results of the adsorber bed outlet volatile organic compounds concentration measurements specified in § 63.11940(e)(2).
(6) You must include the records specified in § 63.11990(j) for other emission sources.
(7) For resin stripper operations, you must include results of daily vinyl chloride and monthly total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration results for each resin type produced within the PVCPU that did not meet the stripped resin emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, as applicable.
(8) You must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section for your wastewater streams.
(i) Results of daily vinyl chloride and monthly total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration results for each process wastewater stream discharged from the affected source that did not meet the process wastewater emission limits in Tables 1 or 2 to this subpart.
(ii) If you must comply with § 63.11965, then you must include any other applicable information that is required by the reporting requirements specified in § 63.146.
(9) For closed vent systems subject to the requirements of § 63.11930, you must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(9)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable.
(i) As applicable, records as specified in § 63.11930(g)(1)(i) for all times when flow was detected in the bypass line, the vent stream was diverted from the control device, or the flow indicator was not operating.
(ii) As applicable, records as specified in § 63.11930(g)(1)(ii) for all occurrences of all periods when a bypass of the system was indicated (the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type lock has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has been broken).
(iii) Records of all times when monitoring of the system was not performed as specified in § 63.11930(d) and (e), or repairs were not performed as specified in § 63.11930(f), or records were not kept as specified in § 63.11930(g)(2).
(iv) Records of each time an alarm on a closed vent system operating in vacuum service is triggered as specified in § 63.11930(h) including the cause for the alarm and the corrective action taken.
(10) Closed vent system in vacuum service, bypass deviation, or pressure vessel closure device deviation report. If any pressure vessel closure device or closed vent system that contains a bypass has directly discharged to the atmosphere, or any closed vent system that is designed to be in vacuum service and is operating and but not in vacuum service, as specified in § 63.11910(c)(4), § 63.11930(c) or § 63.11930(h), you must submit to the Administrator the following information:
(i) The source, nature and cause of the discharge.
(ii) The date, time and duration of the discharge.
(iii) An estimate of the quantity of vinyl chloride and total HAP emitted during the discharge and the method used for determining this quantity.
(iv) The actions taken to prevent this discharge.
(v) The measures adopted to prevent future such discharges
(11)
Affirmative defense report.
If you seek to assert an affirmative defense, as provided in § 63.11895, then you must submit a written report as specified in § 63.11895(b) to demonstrate, with all necessary supporting documentation, that you have met the requirements set forth in § 63.11895(a).
(12)
Overlap with Title V reports.
Information required by this subpart, which is submitted with a Title V periodic report, does not need to be included in a subsequent compliance report required by this subpart or subpart referenced by this subpart. The Title V report must be referenced in the compliance report required by this subpart.
(c)
Other notifications and reports.
You must submit the other notification and reports, as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section, as applicable.
(1)
Notification of inspection.
To provide the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present, you must notify the Administrator at least 30 days before an inspection required by § 63.11910(a)(3). If an inspection is unplanned and you could not have known about the inspection 30 days in advance, then you must notify the Administrator at least 7 days before the inspection. Notification must be made by telephone immediately followed by written documentation demonstrating why the inspection was unplanned. Alternatively, the notification including the written documentation may be made in writing and sent so that it is received by the Administrator at least 7 days before the inspection. If a delegated state or local agency is notified, you are not required to notify the Administrator. A delegated state or local agency may waive the requirement for notification of inspections.
(2)
Batch precompliance report.
You must submit a batch precompliance report at least 6 months prior to the compliance date of this subpart that includes a description of the test conditions, data, calculations and other information used to establish operating limits according to § 63.11935(d) for all batch operations. If you use an engineering assessment as specified in § 63.11950(i), then you must also include data or other information supporting a finding that the emissions estimation equations in § 63.11950(a) through (h) are inappropriate. If the EPA disapproves the report, then you must still be in compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards of this subpart by your compliance date. To change any of the information submitted in the report, you must notify the EPA 60 days before you implement the planned change.
(3)
Other control device reporting provisions.
If you are using a control device other than those listed in this subpart,
then you must submit the information as specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) A description of the proposed control device.
(ii) A description of the parameter(s) to be monitored to ensure the control device is operated in conformance with its design and achieves the performance level as specified in this subpart and an explanation of the criteria used to select the parameter(s).
(iii) The frequency and content of monitoring, recording, and reporting if monitoring and recording is not continuous, or if the compliance report information, as specified in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A) of this section, will not contain 3-hour block average values when the monitored parameter value does not meet the established operating limit. The rationale for the proposed monitoring, recording and reporting system must be included.
(4)
Request for approval to use alternative monitoring methods.
Prior to your initial notification of compliance status, you may submit requests for approval to use alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring specified in this rule, as provided for in § 63.11940(h), following the same procedure as specified in § 63.8. The information specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section must be included.
(i) A description of the proposed alternative system.
(ii) Information justifying your request for an alternative method, such as the technical or economic infeasibility, or the impracticality, of the affected source using the required method.
(5)
Request for approval to monitor alternative parameters.
Prior to your initial notification of compliance status, you may submit requests for approval to monitor a different parameter than those established in § 63.11935(d), following the same procedure as specified for alternative monitoring methods in § 63.8. The information specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section must be included in the request.
(i) A description of the parameter(s) to be monitored to ensure the control technology or pollution prevention measure is operated in conformance with its design and achieves the specified emission limit and an explanation of the criteria used to select the parameter(s).
(ii) A description of the methods and procedures that will be used to demonstrate that the parameter indicates proper operation of the control device, the schedule for this demonstration, and a statement that you will establish an operating limit for the monitored parameter(s) as part of the notification of compliance status if required under this subpart, unless this information has already been submitted.
(iii) The frequency and content of monitoring, recording, and reporting, if monitoring and recording is not continuous. The rationale for the proposed monitoring, recording, and reporting system must be included.
(6) [Reserved]
(7)
Pressure relief device deviation report.
If any pressure relief device in HAP service has discharged to the atmosphere as specified in § 63.11915(c), then you must submit to the Administrator within 10 days of the discharge the following information:
(i) The source, nature, and cause of the discharge.
(ii) The date, time, and duration of the discharge.
(iii) An estimate of the quantity of vinyl chloride and total HAP emitted during the discharge and the method used for determining this quantity.
(iv) The actions taken to prevent this discharge.
(v) The measures adopted to prevent future such discharges.
(8)
Commencing and ceasing operation of continuous emissions monitoring systems.
Before starting or stopping the use of CEMS you must notify the Administrator as specified in § 63.11935(b)(7).
(9)
Data submittal.
(i) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (see § 63.2) required by this subpart, you must submit the results of performance tests electronically to the EPA's WebFIRE database by using the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) that is accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
http://www.epa.gov/cdx
). Performance test
data must be submitted in the file format generated through use of the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (see
http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/ert_tool.html
). Only data collected using test methods compatible with ERT are subject to this requirement to be submitted electronically to WebFIRE. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information being submitted for performance tests is confidential business information (CBI) must submit a complete ERT file including information claimed to be CBI on a compact disk or other commonly used electronic storage media (including, but not limited to, flash drives) to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: WebFIRE Administrator, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via CDX as described earlier in this paragraph. At the discretion of the delegated authority, you must also submit these reports, including the confidential business information, to the delegated authority in the format specified by the delegated authority.
(ii) Within 60 days after the date of completing each CEMS performance evaluation test (see § 63.2), you must submit the relative accuracy test audit data electronically into the EPA's CDX by using the ERT, as mentioned in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this section. Only data collected using test methods compatible with ERT are subject to this requirement to be submitted electronically to the EPA's CDX.
(iii) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) and (ii) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. The Administrator or the delegated authority may request a report in any form suitable for the specific case (
e.g.,
by electronic media such as Excel spreadsheet, on CD or hard copy). The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraphs (c)(9)(i) and (ii) of this section in paper format.
§ 63.11990
What records must I keep?
You must keep records as specified in paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section, as applicable.
(a)
Copies of reports.
You must keep a copy of each notification and report that you submit to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any notification or report. You must also keep copies of the current versions of the site-specific performance evaluation test plan, site-specific monitoring plan, and the equipment leak detection and repair plan.
(b)
Storage vessels.
For storage vessels, you must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) You must keep a record of the dimensions of the storage vessel, an analysis of the capacity of the storage vessel and an identification of the liquid stored.
(2) Inspection records for fixed roofs complying with § 63.11910 including the information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Record the date of each inspection required by § 63.11910(a)(3).
(ii) For each defect detected during an inspection required by § 63.11910(a)(3), record the location of the defect, a description of the defect, the date of detection and corrective action taken to repair the defect. In the event that repair of the defect is delayed in accordance with § 63.11910(a)(4)(ii), also record the reason for the delay and the date that completion of repair of the defect is expected.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) For pressure vessels, you must keep the records specified in paragraph (c) of this section for each pressure vessel.
(5) For internal and external floating roof storage vessels, you must maintain the records required in § 63.1065 of subpart WW of this part.
(6) For fixed roof storage vessels that route emissions through a closed vent system to a control device, during periods of planned routine maintenance of a control device, record the day and time at which planned routine maintenance periods begin and end, and the type of maintenance performed on the
control device. If you need more than 240 hr/yr, keep a record that explains why additional time up to 360 hr/yr was needed and describes how you minimized the amount of additional time needed.
(c)
Equipment leaks.
For equipment leaks, you must maintain the records specified in § 63.1038 of subpart UU of this part for equipment leaks and a record of the information specified in § 63.11930(g)(4) for monitoring instrument calibrations conducted according to § 63.11930(e)(2).
(d)
Heat exchange systems.
For a heat exchange system subject to this subpart, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) Identification of all heat exchangers at the facility and the measured or estimated average annual HAP concentration of process fluid or intervening cooling fluid processed in each heat exchanger.
(2) Identification of all heat exchange systems that are in HAP service. For each heat exchange system that is subject to this subpart, you must include identification of all heat exchangers within each heat exchange system, identification of the individual heat exchangers in HAP service within each heat exchange system, and for closed-loop recirculation systems, the cooling tower included in each heat exchange system.
(3) Identification of all heat exchange systems that are exempt from the monitoring requirements according to the provisions in § 63.11920(b) and the provision under which the heat exchange system is exempt.
(4) Results of the following monitoring data for each monitoring event:
(i) Date/time of event.
(ii) Heat exchange exit line flow or cooling tower return line flow at the sampling location, gallons/minute.
(iii) Monitoring method employed.
(iv) The measured cooling water concentration for each of target analyte (parts per billion by weight).
(v) Calibration and recovery information identified in the test method used.
(5) The date when a leak was identified and the date when the heat exchanger was repaired or taken out of service.
(6) If a repair is delayed, the reason for the delay, the schedule for completing the repair, and the estimate of potential emissions for the delay of repair.
(e)
Process vent monitoring.
You must include the records specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable, for process vent monitoring.
(1) Continuous records. Where this subpart requires a continuous record using CEMS or CPMS, you must maintain, at a minimum, the records specified in § 63.10(b)(2)(vii)(A).
(2) Excluded data. In any average computed to determine compliance, you must exclude monitoring data recorded during periods specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Periods of non-operation of the process unit (or portion thereof), resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies.
(ii) Periods of no flow to a control device.
(iii) Monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities, as specified in § 63.11890(c)(2).
(3) Records of calculated emission and operating parameter values. You must retain for 5 years, a record of CEMS and CPMS data as specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, unless an alternative recordkeeping system has been requested and approved.
(i) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, retain for 5 years, the records of the average values for each continuously monitored operating parameter and pollutant specified in §§ 63.11925(e)(3)(ii) and 63.11925(e)(4)(ii)(B) for CEMS and CPMS.
(ii) In lieu of calculating and recording the average value specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) of this section, if all 1-hour averages specified in § 63.11935(e) demonstrate compliance with your parameter operating limit or the applicable pollutant emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart for the block average period, you may record a statement that all recorded 1-hour averages
met the operating limit or emission limit, as applicable, and retain for 5 years this statement and all recorded CPMS or CEMS data for the block average period.
(4) Information to be included in records. You must keep records of each operating scenario as specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (viii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) You must keep a schedule or log of operating scenarios, updated each time a different operating scenario is put into effect.
(ii) A description of the process and the type of process components used.
(iii) An identification of related process vents including their associated emissions episodes.
(iv) The applicable control requirements of this subpart for process vents.
(v) The control device, including a description of operating and testing conditions.
(vi) Combined emissions that are routed to the same control device.
(vii) The applicable monitoring requirements of this subpart and any operating limit that assures compliance for all emissions routed to the control device.
(viii) Calculations and engineering analyses required to demonstrate compliance.
(f)
Process vents.
You must include the records specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, as applicable, for process vents.
(1) Records of performance tests as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii). You must also collect the applicable control device operating parameters required in § 63.11940 over the full period of the performance test.
(2) If you use a control device to comply with this subpart and you are required to use CPMS, then you must keep up-to-date and readily accessible records for your process vents as specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable.
(i) If you use a flow indicator, then you must keep records of periods of no flow to the control device, including the start and stop time and dates of periods of flow and no flow.
(ii) If you use a catalytic oxidizer for which you have selected the alternative monitoring specified in § 63.11940(b)(3), then you must also maintain records of the results of the annual catalyst sampling and inspections required by § 63.11940(b)(3)(i) and (ii) including any subsequent corrective actions taken.
(iii) If you use a regenerative adsorber as specified in § 63.11940(d), then the records specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(iii)(A) through (H) of this section, as applicable, must be kept.
(A) Records of total regeneration stream mass flow for each adsorber-bed regeneration cycle.
(B) Records of the temperature of the adsorber bed after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle.
(C) For non-vacuum and non-steam regeneration systems, records of the temperature of the adsorber bed during each regeneration except during any temperature regulating (cooling or warming to bring bed temperature closer to vent gas temperature) portion of the regeneration cycle.
(D) If adsorber regeneration vacuum is monitored pursuant to § 63.11940(d)(4), then you must keep records of the vacuum profile over time and the amount of time the vacuum level is below the minimum vacuum target for each adsorber-bed regeneration cycle.
(E) Records of the regeneration frequency and duration.
(F) Daily records of the verification inspections, including the visual observations and/or any activation of an automated alarm or shutdown system with a written entry into a log book or other permanent form of record.
(G) Records of the maximum volatile organic compound or HAP outlet concentration observed over the last 5 minutes of the adsorption cycle for each adsorber bed. Records must be weekly or for every regeneration cycle if the regeneration cycle is greater than 1 week.
(H) Records of the date and time the adsorbent had last been replaced.
(iv) If you use a non-regenerative adsorber as specified in § 63.11940(e), then the records specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section, as applicable, must be kept.
(A) A record of the average life of the bed, as determined by § 63.11940(e)(1),
including the date the average life was determined.
(B) Daily, weekly, or monthly records of the maximum volatile organic compound or HAP outlet concentration, as specified by § 63.11940(e)(2).
(C) Records of bed replacement including the date and time the adsorbent had last been replaced, and the date and time in which breakthrough is detected.
(g)
Closed vent systems.
You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) of this section, and you must record any additional information as specified in § 63.11930, as applicable.
(1) Each alarm triggered because flow was detected in a bypass as specified in § 63.11930(g)(1)(i).
(2) Inspections of seals or closure mechanisms as specified in § 63.11930(g)(1)(ii).
(3) Copies of compliance reports for closed vent system leak inspections as specified in § 63.11985(b)(9) and § 63.11930(g)(2) and (3).
(4) Instrument calibration records as specified in § 63.11930(g)(4).
(5) Unsafe-to-inspect equipment as specified in § 63.11930(g)(5).
(6) Pressure alarms as specified by § 63.11930(h)(2) and (3).
(h)
Resin strippers.
For resin strippers, you must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) All resin sampling data, including daily measurements of the concentration of vinyl chloride and monthly measurements of the total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP compounds in the stripped resin for each type and grade of resin produced. Each sample must be identified by the resin type and resin grade, the date and time the sample was taken, identification of the resin stripper from which the sample was taken, and the corresponding quantity (pounds) of resin processed by the stripper for the batch or over the time period represented by the sample.
(2) The total quantity (pounds) of each resin grade produced per day and the total quantity of resin processed by each resin stripper, identified by resin type and resin grade, per day.
(i)
Process wastewater.
For treatment processes, you must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) A description of the process wastewater generation activities and treatment process.
(2) Records of the treatment determinations specified in § 63.11965(b) for each wastewater stream and the type of treatment applied if required in § 63.11965(c).
(3) Records of the initial performance test specified in § 63.11970(a) and (b).
(4) All testing data, including monthly measurements of the concentrations of vinyl chloride and the concentration of total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP in each process wastewater stream required to be measured, as specified in § 63.11975.
(5) You must keep any other applicable records that are required by the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.147 of subpart G of this part.
(j)
Other emission sources.
You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) All engineering calculations, testing, sampling, and monitoring results and data specified in § 63.11955.
(2) Each occurrence that you do not comply with the requirements in § 63.11955.
§ 63.11995
In what form and how long must I keep my records?
(a) You must keep records for 5 years in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, as specified in § 63.10(b)(1).
(b) You must keep each record on site for at least 2 years, as specified in § 63.10(b)(1). You can keep the records off site for the remaining 3 years. Records may be maintained in hard copy or computer-readable format including, but not limited to, on paper, microfilm, hard disk drive, floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape or microfiche.
§ 63.12000
Who implements and enforces this subpart?
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the Administrator, as defined in § 63.2, or a delegated authority such as your state, local or tribal
agency. If the Administrator has delegated authority to your state, local or tribal agency, then that agency (as well as the Administrator) has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your state, local or tribal agency.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a state, local or tribal agency, the authorities listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are retained by the Administrator and are not transferred to the state, local or tribal agency, however, the EPA retains oversight of this subpart and can take enforcement actions, as appropriate.
(1) Approval of alternatives to the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards specified in this subpart.
(2) Approval of a major change to test methods, as defined in § 63.90, approval of any proposed analysis methods, and approval of any proposed test methods.
(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring, as defined in § 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping and reporting, as defined in § 63.90.

# Definitions
§ 63.12005
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in § 63.2, and in this section, as follows:
Affirmative defense
means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.
Batch emission episode
means a discrete venting episode that is associated with a single unit operation. A unit operation may have more than one batch emission episode. For example, a displacement of vapor resulting from the charging of a vessel with HAP will result in a discrete emission episode that will last through the duration of the charge and will have an average flowrate equal to the rate of the charge. If the vessel is then heated, there will also be another discrete emission episode resulting from the expulsion of expanded vapor. Both emission episodes may occur in the same vessel or unit operation. There are possibly other emission episodes that may occur from the vessel or other process components, depending on process operations.
Batch operation
means a noncontinuous operation involving intermittent or discontinuous feed into process components, and, in general, involves the emptying of the process components after the operation ceases and prior to beginning a new operation. Addition of raw material and withdrawal of product do not occur simultaneously in a batch operation.
Batch process vent
means a vent from a batch operation from a PVCPU through which a HAP-containing gas stream has the potential to be released to the atmosphere except that it is required by this subpart to routed to a closed vent system and control device. Emissions for all emission episodes associated with the unit operation(s) are part of the batch process vent. Batch process vents also include vents with intermittent flow from continuous operations. Examples of batch process vents include, but are not limited to, vents on condensers used for product recovery, polymerization reactors, and process tanks.
Bottoms receiver
means a tank that collects bottoms from continuous distillation before the stream is sent for storage or for further downstream processing. A rundown tank is an example of a bottoms receiver.
Bulk process
means a process for producing polyvinyl chloride resin that is characterized by a two-step anhydrous polymerization process: the formation of small resin particles in a pre-polymerization reactor using small amounts of vinyl chloride monomer, an initiator, and agitation; and the growth of the resin particles in a post-polymerization reactor using additional vinyl chloride monomer. Resins produced using the bulk process are referred to as bulk resins.
Bypass
means diverting a process vent or closed vent system stream to
the atmosphere such that it does not first pass through an emission control device.
Calendar year
means the period between January 1 and December 31, inclusive for a given year.
Capacity
means the nominal figure or rating given by the manufacturer of the storage vessel, condenser, or other process component.
Car-seal
means a seal that is placed on a device that is used to change the position of a valve (e.g., from opened to closed) in such a way that the position of the valve cannot be changed without breaking the seal.
Closed vent system
means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and is composed of piping, ductwork, connections, and, if necessary, flow inducing devices that collect or transport gas or vapor from an emission point to a control device.
Combustion device
means an individual unit used for the combustion of organic emissions, such as a flare, incinerator, process heater, or boiler.
Conservation vent
means an automatically operated (
e.g.,
weight-loaded or spring-loaded) safety device used to prevent the operating pressure of a storage vessel from exceeding the maximum allowable working pressure of the process component. Conservation vents must be designed to open only when the operating pressure of the storage vessel exceeds the maximum allowable working pressure of the process component. Conservation vents open and close to permit only the intake or outlet relief necessary to keep the storage vessel within permissible working pressures, and reseal automatically.
Container
means a portable unit in which a material can be stored, transported, treated, disposed of or otherwise handled. Examples of containers include, but are not limited to, drums, pails, and portable cargo containers known as “portable tanks” or “totes.” Container does not include transport vehicles or barges.
Continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS)
means the total equipment that may be required to meet the data acquisition and availability requirements of this subpart, used to sample, condition (if applicable), analyze, and provide a record of emissions.
Continuous operation
means any operation that is not a batch operation.
Continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS)
means the total equipment that may be required to meet the data acquisition and availability requirements of this part, used to sample, condition (if applicable), analyze, and provide a record of process or control system parameters.
Continuous process vent
means a vent from a continuous PVCPU operation through which a HAP-containing gas stream has the potential to be released to the atmosphere except that it is required by this subpart to routed to a closed vent system and control device and has the following characteristics:
(1) The gas stream originates as a continuous flow from any continuous PVCPU operation during operation of the PVCPU.
(2) The discharge into the closed vent system and control device meets at least one of the following conditions:
(i) Is directly from any continuous operation.
(ii) Is from any continuous operation after passing solely (
i.e.,
without passing through any other unit operation for a process purpose) through one or more recovery devices within the PVCPU.
(iii) Is from a device recovering only mechanical energy from a gas stream that comes either directly from any continuous operation, or from any continuous operation after passing solely (
i.e.,
without passing through any other unit operation for a process purpose) through one or more recovery devices within the PVCPU.
Continuous PVCPU operation means
any operation that is not a batch operation or an operation that generates a miscellaneous process vent.
Continuous record
means documentation, either in hard copy or computer readable form, of data values measured at least once every 15 minutes and recorded at the frequency specified in § 63.11990(e)(1).
Control device
means, with the exceptions noted in this definition, a combustion device, recovery device, recapture device or any combination of these devices used to comply with this
subpart. Process condensers are not control devices.
Control system
means the combination of the closed vent system and the control devices used to collect and control vapors or gases from a regulated emission source.
Cooling tower
means a heat removal device used to remove the heat absorbed in circulating cooling water systems by transferring the heat to the atmosphere using natural or mechanical draft.
Cooling tower return line
means the main water trunk lines at the inlet to the cooling tower before exposure to the atmosphere.
Corrective action plan
means a description of all reasonable interim and long-term measures, if any, that are available, and an explanation of why the selected corrective action is the best alternative, including, but not limited to, any consideration of cost-effectiveness.
Day
means a calendar day, unless otherwise specified in this subpart.
Dioxin/furans
means total tetra- through octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.
Dispersion process
means a process for producing polyvinyl chloride resin that is characterized by the formation of the polymers in soap micelles that contain small amounts of vinyl chloride monomer. Emulsifiers are used to disperse vinyl chloride monomer in the water phase. Initiators used in the dispersion process are soluble in water. Resins produced using the dispersion process are referred to as latex or dispersion resins.
Empty or emptying
means the partial or complete removal of stored liquid from a storage vessel. Storage vessels that contain liquid only as a result of the liquid clinging to the walls or bottoms, or resting in pools due to bottom irregularities, are considered completely empty.
Equipment
means each pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, connector and instrumentation system in HAP service; and any control devices or systems used to comply with this subpart.
Fill or filling
means the introduction of liquid into a storage vessel, but not necessarily to capacity.
First attempt at repair,
for the purposes of this subpart, means to take action for the purpose of stopping or reducing leakage of organic material to the atmosphere, followed by monitoring as specified in § 63.11930(f) to verify whether the leak is repaired, unless the owner or operator determines by other means that the leak is not repaired.
Fixed roof storage vessel
means a vessel with roof that is mounted (
i.e.,
permanently affixed) on a storage vessel and that does not move with fluctuations in stored liquid level.
Flow indicator
means a device that indicates whether gas flow is, or whether the valve position would allow gas flow to be, present in a line.
Gasholder
means a surge control vessel with a bell that is floating in a vessel filled with water that is used to store gases from the PVC production process prior to being recovered or sent to a process vent control device. The bell rises and falls as low-pressure gases enter and leave the space beneath the bell and the water provides a seal between the enclosed gas within the floating bell and the ambient air.
Grade
means the subdivision of PVC resin that describes it as a unique resin,
i.e.,
the most exact description of a type of resin with no further subdivision. Examples include low molecular weight suspension resins and general purpose suspension resins.
Hard-piping
means pipes or tubing that are manufactured and properly installed using good engineering judgment and an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization if such a method exists or you may use an industry standard practice. Consensus-based standards organizations include, but are not limited to, American National Standards Institute (ANSI, 1819 L Street NW., 6th floor, Washington, DC 20036, (202) 293-8020,
http://www.ansi.org
).
Heat exchange system
means a device or collection of devices used to transfer heat from process fluids to water without intentional direct contact of the process fluid with the water (
i.e.,
non-
contact heat exchanger) and to transport and/or cool the water in a closed-loop recirculation system (cooling tower system) or a once-through system (
e.g.,
river or pond water). For closed-loop recirculation systems, the heat exchange system consists of a cooling tower, all heat exchangers that are serviced by that cooling tower and all water lines to and from the heat exchanger(s). For once-through systems, the heat exchange system consists of one or more heat exchangers servicing an individual process unit and all water lines to and from the heat exchanger(s). Intentional direct contact with process fluids results in the formation of a wastewater.
Heat exchanger exit line
means the cooling water line from the exit of one or more heat exchangers (where cooling water leaves the heat exchangers) to either the entrance of the cooling tower return line or prior to exposure to the atmosphere or mixing with non-cooling water streams, in, as an example, a once-through cooling system, whichever occurs first.
In HAP service
means that a process component either contains or contacts a liquid that is at least 5-percent HAP by weight or a gas that is at least 5 percent by volume HAP as determined according to the provisions of § 63.180(d). For the purposes of this definition, the term “organic HAP” as used in § 63.180(d) means HAP. The provisions of § 63.180(d) also specify how to determine that a process component is not in HAP service.
In vacuum service
means that the process component is operating at an internal pressure that is at least 5 kilopascals (kPa) (0.7 pounds per square inch absolute) below ambient pressure.
Incinerator
means an enclosed combustion device with an enclosed fire box that is used for destroying organic compounds. Auxiliary fuel may be used to heat waste gas to combustion temperatures. Any energy recovery section present is not physically formed into one manufactured or assembled unit with the combustion section; rather, the energy recovery section is a separate section following the combustion section and the two are joined by ducts or connections carrying flue gas. This energy recovery section limitation does not apply to an energy recovery section used solely to preheat the incoming vent stream or combustion air.
Maintenance wastewater
means wastewater generated by the draining of process fluid from components in the PVCPU into an individual drain system prior to or during maintenance activities. Maintenance wastewater can be generated during planned and unplanned shutdowns and during periods not associated with a shutdown. Examples of activities that can generate maintenance wastewaters include descaling of heat exchanger tubing bundles, hydroblasting PVCPU process components such as polymerization reactors, vessels and heat exchangers, draining of low legs and high point bleeds, draining of pumps into an individual drain system, draining of portions of the PVCPU for repair and water used to wash out process components or equipment after the process components or equipment has already been opened to the atmosphere and has met the requirements of § 63.11955.
Maximum representative operating conditions
means process operating conditions that result in the most challenging condition for the control device. The most challenging condition for the control device may include, but is not limited to, the highest or lowest HAP mass loading rate to the control device, the highest or lowest HAP mass loading rate of constituents that approach the limits of solubility for scrubbing media, the highest or lowest HAP mass loading rate of constituents that approach limits of solubility for scrubbing media.
Maximum true vapor pressure
means the equilibrium partial pressure exerted by the total HAP in the stored or transferred liquid at the temperature equal to the highest calendar-month average of the liquid storage or transfer temperature for liquids stored or transferred above or below the ambient temperature or at the local maximum monthly average temperature as reported by the National Weather Service for liquids stored or transferred at the ambient temperature, as determined by any one of the following methods or references:
(1) In accordance with methods described in API MPMS 19.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
(2) As obtained from standard reference texts.
(3) As determined by ASTM D2879-83 or ASTM D2879-96 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
(4) Any other method approved by the Administrator.
Miscellaneous vent
means gaseous emissions from samples, loading and unloading lines, slip gauges, process wastewater treatment systems and pressure relief devices that are routed through a closed vent system to a control device and that are not equipment leaks.
Nonstandard batch
means a batch process that is operated outside of the range of operating conditions that are documented in an existing operating scenario, but is still a reasonably anticipated event. For example, a nonstandard batch occurs when additional processing or processing at different operating conditions must be conducted to produce a product that is normally produced under the conditions described by the standard batch. A nonstandard batch may be necessary as a result of a malfunction, but it is not itself a malfunction.
Operating block
means a period of time that is equal to the time from the beginning to end of batch process operations within a process.
Operating day
means a 24-hour period between 12 midnight and the following midnight during which PVC is produced at any time in the PVCPU. It is not necessary for PVC to be produced for the entire 24-hour period.
Operating scenario
means, for the purposes of reporting and recordkeeping, any specific operation of a regulated process as described by reports specified in § 63.11985(b)(4)(ii) and records specified in § 63.11990(e)(4).
Plant site
means all contiguous or adjoining property that is under common control, including properties that are separated only by a road or other public right-of-way. Common control includes properties that are owned, leased or operated by the same entity, parent entity, subsidiary or any combination thereof.
Polymerization reactor
means any vessel in which vinyl chloride is partially or totally polymerized into polyvinyl chloride. For bulk processes, the polymerization reactor includes pre-polymerization reactors and post-polymerization reactors.
Polyvinyl chloride
means either polyvinyl chloride homopolymer or polyvinyl chloride copolymer.
Polyvinyl chloride and copolymers production process unit or PVCPU
means a collection of process components assembled and connected by hard-piping or duct work, used to process raw materials and to manufacture polyvinyl chloride and/or polyvinyl chloride copolymers. A PVCPU includes, but is not limited to, polymerization reactors; resin stripping operations; resin blend tanks; resin centrifuges; resin dryers; resin product separators; recovery devices; reactant and raw material charge vessels and tanks, holding tanks, mixing and weighing tanks; finished resin product storage tanks or storage silos; finished resin product loading operations; connected ducts and piping; equipment including pumps, compressors, agitators, pressure relief devices, sampling connection systems, open-ended valves or lines, valves and connectors and instrumentation systems. A PVCPU does not include chemical manufacturing process units, as defined in § 63.101, that produce vinyl chloride monomer or other raw materials used in the PVC polymerization process.
Polyvinyl chloride copolymer
means a synthetic thermoplastic polymer that is derived from the simultaneous polymerization of vinyl chloride and another monomer such as vinyl acetate. Polyvinyl chloride copolymer is produced by different processes, including, but not limited to, suspension, dispersion/emulsion, suspension blending, and solution processes.
Polyvinyl chloride homopolymer
means a synthetic thermoplastic polymer that is derived from the polymerization of vinyl chloride and has the general chemical structure (-H2CCHCl-)n. Polyvinyl chloride homopolymer is typically a white powder or colorless granule. Polyvinyl chloride homopolymer is produced by different processes, including (but not limited to), suspension,
dispersion/emulsion, blending, and bulk processes.
Pressure relief device
means a safety device used to prevent operating pressures from exceeding the maximum allowable working pressure of the process component. A common pressure relief device is a spring-loaded pressure relief valve.
Pressure vessel
means a vessel that is used to store liquids or gases and is designed not to vent to the atmosphere as a result of compression of the vapor headspace in the pressure vessel during filling of the pressure vessel to its design capacity.
Process change
means an addition to or change in a PVCPU and/or its associated process components that creates one or more emission points or changes the characteristics of an emission point such that a new or different emission limit, operating parameter limit, or work practice requirement applies to the added or changed emission points. Examples of process changes include, but are not limited to, changes in production capacity, production rate, or catalyst type, or whenever there is replacement, removal, or addition of recovery device components. For purposes of this definition, process changes do not include process upsets, changes that do not alter the process component configuration and operating conditions, and unintentional, temporary process changes. A process change does not include moving within a range of conditions identified in the standard batch, and a nonstandard batch does not constitute a process change.
Process component
means any unit operation or group of units operations or any part of a process or group of parts of a process that are assembled to perform a specific function (
e.g.,
polymerization reactor, dryers, etc.). Process components include equipment, as defined in this section.
Process condenser
means a condenser whose primary purpose is to recover material as an integral part of a batch process. All condensers recovering condensate from a batch process at or above the boiling point or all condensers in line prior to a vacuum source are considered process condensers. Typically, a primary condenser or condensers in series are considered to be integral to the batch regulated process if they are capable of and normally used for the purpose of recovering chemicals for fuel value (
i.e.,
net positive heating value), use, reuse or for sale for fuel value, use or reuse. This definition does not apply to a condenser that is used to remove materials that would hinder performance of a downstream recovery device as follows:
(1) To remove water vapor that would cause icing in a downstream condenser.
(2) To remove water vapor that would negatively affect the adsorption capacity of carbon in a downstream carbon adsorber.
(3) To remove high molecular weight organic compounds or other organic compounds that would be difficult to remove during regeneration of a downstream adsorber.
Process tank
means a tank or other vessel (
e.g.,
pressure vessel) that is used within an affected source to both: (1) Collect material discharged from a feedstock storage vessel, process tank, or other PVCPU process component, and (2) discharge the material to another process tank, process component, byproduct storage vessel, or product storage vessel.
Process unit
means the process components assembled and connected by pipes or ducts to process raw and/or intermediate materials and to manufacture an intended product. For the purpose of this subpart, process unit includes, but is not limited to, polyvinyl chloride production process.
Process vent
means a vent stream that is the result of the manifolding of each and all batch process vent, continuous process vent, or miscellaneous vent resulting from the affected facility into a closed vent system and into a common header that is routed to a control device. The process vent standards apply at the outlet of the control device. A process vent is either a PVC-only process vent or a PVC-combined process vent.
Process wastewater
means wastewater that comes into direct contact with HAP or results from the production or use of any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste product containing HAP, but
that has not been discharged untreated as wastewater. Examples are product tank drawdown or feed tank drawdown; water formed during a chemical reaction or used as a reactant; water used to wash impurities from organic products or reactants; water used to cool or quench organic vapor streams through direct contact; water discarded from a control device; and condensed steam from jet ejector systems pulling vacuum on vessels containing organics. Gasholder seal water is not process wastewater until it is removed from the gasholder.
Process wastewater treatment system
means a specific technique or collection of techniques that remove or destroy the organics in a process wastewater stream to comply with §§ 63.11965, 63.11970, and 63.11975.
Product
means a polymer produced using the same monomers and varying in additives (
e.g.,
initiators, terminators, etc.); catalysts; or in the relative proportions of monomers, that is manufactured by a process unit. With respect to polymers, more than one recipe may be used to produce the same product, and there can be more than one grade of a product. Product also means a chemical that is not a polymer, which is manufactured by a process unit. By-products, isolated intermediates, impurities, wastes, and trace contaminants are not considered products.
PVC-combined process vent
means a process vent that originates from a PVCPU and is combined with one or more process vents originating from another source category prior to being controlled or emitted to the atmosphere.
PVC-only process vent
means a process vent that originates from a PVCPU and is not combined with a process vent originating from another source category prior to being controlled or emitted to the atmosphere.
Recipe
means a specific composition from among the range of possible compositions that may occur within a product, as defined in this section. A recipe is determined by the proportions of monomers and, if present, other reactants and additives that are used to make the recipe.
Recovery device
means an individual process component capable of and normally used for the purpose of recovering chemicals for fuel value (
i.e.,
net positive heating value), use, reuse, or for sale for fuel value, use, or reuse. Examples of process components that may be recovery devices include absorbers, adsorbers, condensers, oil-water separators or organic-water separators, or organic removal devices such as decanters, strippers (
e.g.,
wastewater steam and vacuum strippers), or thin-film evaporation units. For purposes of this subpart, recovery devices are control devices.
Repaired,
for the purposes of this subpart, means equipment that is adjusted or otherwise altered to eliminate a leak as defined in the applicable sections of this subpart; and unless otherwise specified in applicable provisions of this subpart, is inspected as specified in § 63.11930(f) to verify that emissions from the equipment are below the applicable leak definition.
Resin stripper
means a unit that removes organic compounds from a raw polyvinyl chloride and copolymer product. In the production of a polymer, stripping is a discrete step that occurs after the polymerization reaction and before drying or other finishing operations. Examples of types of stripping include steam stripping, vacuum stripping, or other methods of devolatilization. For the purposes of this subpart, devolatilization that occurs in dryers or other finishing operations is not resin stripping. Resin stripping may occur in a polymerization reactor or in a batch or continuous stripper separate from the polymerization reactor where resin stripping occurs.
Root cause analysis
means an assessment conducted through a process of investigation to determine the primary cause, and any other significant contributing cause(s), of a discharge of gases in excess of specified thresholds.
Sensor
means a device that measures a physical quantity or the change in a physical quantity, such as temperature, pressure, flow rate, pH, or liquid level.
Slip gauge
means a gauge that has a probe that moves through the gas/liquid interface in a storage vessel and indicates the level of product in the vessel by the physical state of the material the gauge discharges.
Solution process
means a process for producing polyvinyl chloride copolymer resin that is characterized by the anhydrous formation of the polymer through precipitation. Polymerization occurs in an organic solvent in the presence of an initiator where vinyl chloride monomer and co-monomers are soluble in the solvent, but the polymer is not. The PVC copolymer is a granule suspended in the solvent, which then precipitates out of solution. Emulsifiers and suspending agents are not used in the solution process. PVC copolymer resins produced using the solution process are referred to as solution resins.
Specific gravity monitoring device
means a unit of equipment used to monitor specific gravity and having a minimum accuracy of ±0.02 specific gravity units.
Standard procedure
means a formal written procedure officially adopted by the plant owner or operator and available on a routine basis to those persons responsible for carrying out the procedure.
Storage vessel
means a tank or other vessel (
e.g.,
pressure vessel) that is part of an affected source and is used to store a gaseous, liquid, or solid feedstock, byproduct, or product that contains organic HAP. Storage vessel does not include:
(1) Vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships;
(2) Process tanks;
(3) Vessels with capacities smaller than 10,040 gallons;
(4) Vessels storing organic liquids that contain organic HAP only as impurities;
(5) Bottoms receiver tanks;
(6) Surge control vessels; and
(7) Wastewater storage tanks. Wastewater storage tanks are covered under the wastewater provisions.
Stripped resin
means the material exiting the resin stripper that contains polymerized vinyl chloride.
Supplemental combustion air
means the air that is added to a vent stream after the vent stream leaves the unit operation. Air that is part of the vent stream as a result of the nature of the unit operation is not considered supplemental combustion air. Air required to operate combustion device burner(s) is not considered supplemental combustion air. Air required to ensure the proper operation of catalytic oxidizers, to include the intermittent addition of air upstream of the catalyst bed to maintain a minimum threshold flow rate through the catalyst bed or to avoid excessive temperatures in the catalyst bed, is not considered to be supplemental combustion air.
Surge control vessel
means feed drums, recycle drums, and intermediate vessels used as a part of any continuous operation. Surge control vessels are used within an affected source when in-process storage, mixing, or management of flow rates or volumes is needed to introduce material into continuous operations. Surge control vessels also include gasholders.
Suspension blending process
means a process for producing polyvinyl chloride resin that is similar to the suspension polymerization process, but employs a rate of agitation that is significantly higher than the highest range for non-blending suspension resins. The suspension blending process uses a recipe that creates extremely small resin particles, generally equal to or less than 100 microns in size, with a glassy surface and very little porosity. The suspension blending process concentrates the resins using a centrifuge that is specifically designed to handle these small particles. Polyvinyl chloride resins produced using the suspension blending process are referred to as suspension blending resins and are typically blended with dispersion resins.
Suspension process
means a process for producing polyvinyl chloride resin that is characterized by the formation of the polymers in droplets of liquid vinyl chloride monomer or other co-monomers suspended in water. The droplets are formed by agitation and the use of protective colloids or suspending agents. Initiators used in the suspension process are soluble in vinyl
chloride monomer. Polyvinyl chloride resins produced using the suspension process are referred to as suspension resins.
Table 10 HAP
means a HAP compound listed in table 10 of this subpart.
Total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP
means, for the purposes of this subpart, the sum of the measured concentrations of each HAP, as calculated according to the procedures specified in §§ 63.11960(f) and 63.11980(b).
Type of resin
means the broad classification of PVC homopolymer and copolymer resin referring to the basic manufacturing process for producing that resin, including, but not limited to, suspension, dispersion/emulsion, suspension blending, bulk, and solution processes.
Unloading operations
means the transfer of organic liquids from a transport vehicle, container, or storage vessel to process components within the affected source.
Wastewater
means process wastewater and maintenance wastewater. The following are not considered wastewater for the purposes of this subpart:
(1) Stormwater from segregated sewers;
(2) Water from fire-fighting and deluge systems, including testing of such systems;
(3) Spills;
(4) Water from safety showers;
(5) Samples of a size not greater than reasonably necessary for the method of analysis that is used;
(6) Equipment leaks;
(7) Wastewater drips from procedures such as disconnecting hoses after cleaning lines; and
(8) Noncontact cooling water.
Wastewater stream
means a stream that contains only wastewater as defined in this section.
Work practice standard
means any design, equipment, work practice or operational standard, or combination thereof, that is promulgated pursuant to section 112(h) of the Clean Air Act.
§§ 63.12006-63.12099
[Reserved]
Pt. 63, Subpt. HHHHHHH, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart HHHHHHH of Part 63—Emission Limits and Standards for Existing Affected Sources
For this type of emission
point . . .
And for this air pollutant . . .
And for an affected source producing this type of PVC
resin . . .
You must meet this emission
limit . . .
1. PVC-only process vents
a
a. Vinyl chloride
All resin types
6.0 parts per million by volume (ppmv).
b. Total hydrocarbons
All resin types
9.7 ppmv measured as propane.
c. Total organic HAP
b
All resin types
56 ppmv.
d. Hydrogen chloride
All resin types
78 ppmv.
e. Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
All resin types
0.038 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (ng/dscm).
2. PVC-combined process vents
a
a. Vinyl chloride
All resin types
1.1 ppmv.
b. Total hydrocarbons
All resin types
4.2 ppmv measured as propane.
c. Total organic HAP
b
All resin types
9.8 ppmv.
d. Hydrogen chloride
All resin types
380 ppmv.
e. Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
All resin types
0.051 ng/dscm.
3. Stripped resin
a. Vinyl chloride
i. Bulk resin
7.1 parts per million by weight (ppmw).
ii. Dispersion resin
1300 ppmw.
iii. Suspension resin
37 ppmw.
iv. Suspension blending resin
140 ppmw.
v. Copolymer resin
790 ppmw.
b. Total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP
i. Bulk resin
170 ppmw.
ii. Dispersion resin
240 ppmw.
iii. Suspension resin
670 ppmw.
iv. Suspension blending resin
500 ppmw.
v. Copolymer resin
1900 ppmw.
4. Process Wastewater
a. Vinyl chloride
All resin types
6.8 ppmw.
b. Total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP
All resin types
110 ppmw.
a
Emission limits at 3 percent oxygen, dry basis.
b
Total organic HAP is alternative compliance limit for THC.
Pt. 63, Subpt. HHHHHHH, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart HHHHHHH of Part 63—Emission Limits and Standards for New Affected Sources
For this type of emission
point . . .
And for this air pollutant . . .
And for an affected source producing this type of PVC
resin . . .
You must meet this emission
limit . . .
1. PVC-only process vents
a
a. Vinyl chloride
All resin types
0.56 ppmv.
b. Total hydrocarbons
All resin types
7.0 ppmv measured as propane.
c. Total organic HAP
b
All resin types
5.5 ppmv.
d. Hydrogen chloride
All resin types
0.17 ppmv.
e. Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
All resin types
0.038 ng/dscm.
2. PVC-combined process vents
a
a. Vinyl chloride
All resin types
0.56 ppmv.
b. Total hydrocarbons
All resin types
2.3 ppmv measured as propane.
c. Total organic HAP
b
All resin types
5.5 ppmv.
d. Hydrogen chloride
All resin types
1.4 ppmv.
e. Dioxins/furans (toxic equivalency basis)
All resin types
0.034 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (ng/dscm).
3. Stripped resin
a. Vinyl chloride
i. Bulk resin
7.1 parts per million by weight (ppmw).
ii. Dispersion resin
480 ppmw.
iii. Suspension resin
7.3 ppmw.
iv. Suspension blending resin
140 ppmw.
v. Copolymer—all resin types
790 ppmw.
b. Total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP
i. Bulk resin
170 ppmw.
ii. Dispersion resin
66 ppmw.
iii. Suspension resin
15 ppmw.
iv. Suspension blending resin
500 ppmw.
v. Copolymer resin
1900 ppmw.
4. Process Wastewater
a. Vinyl chloride
All resin types
0.28 ppmw.
b. Total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP
All resin types
0.018 ppmw.
a
Emission limits at 3 percent oxygen, dry basis.
b
Total organic HAP is alternative compliance limit for THC.
Pt. 63, Subpt. HHHHHHH, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart HHHHHHH of Part 63—Summary of Control Requirements for Storage Vessels at New and Existing Sources
If the storage vessel capacity (gallons) is . . .
And the vapor pressure
a
(psia)
is . . .
Then, you must use the following type of storage vessel . . .
≥20,000 but
40,000
≥4
Internal floating roof, external floating roof, or fixed roof vented to a closed vent system and control device achieving 95 percent reduction.
b
≥40,000
≥0.75
Internal floating roof, external floating roof, or fixed roof vented to a closed vent system and control device achieving 95 percent reduction.
b
Any capacity.
11.1
Pressure vessel.
c
All other capacity and vapor pressure combinations
Fixed roof.
d
a
Maximum true vapor pressure of total HAP at storage temperature.
b
If using a fixed roof storage vessel vented to a closed vent system and control device, you must meet the requirements in § 63.11910(a) for fixed roof storage vessels. If using an internal floating roof storage vessel or external floating roof storage vessels, you must meet the requirements in § 63.11910(b) for internal floating roof storage vessels or external floating roof storage vessels, as applicable.
c
Meeting the requirements of § 63.11910(c) for pressure vessels.
d
Meeting the requirements in § 63.11910(a) for fixed roof storage vessels.
Pt. 63, Subpt. HHHHHHH, Table 4

# Table 4 to Subpart HHHHHHH of Part 63—Applicability of the General Provisions to Part 63
Citation
Subject
Applies to subpart HHHHHHH
Comment
§ 63.1(a)(1)-(a)(4), (a)(6), (a)(10)-(a)(12), (b)(1), (b)(3), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (c)(6), (e)
Applicability
Yes
§ 63.1(a)(5), (a)(7)-(a)(9), (b)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d)
[Reserved]
No.
§ 63.2
Definitions
Yes
Additional definitions are found in § 63.12005.
§ 63.3
Units and abbreviations
Yes.
§ 63.4(a)(1), (a)(2), (b), (c)
Prohibited activities and circumvention
Yes.
§ 63.4(a)(3)-(a)(5)
[Reserved]
No.
§ 63.5(a), (b)(1), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(6), (d)-(f)
Preconstruction review and notification requirements
Yes.
§ 63.5(b)(2), (b)(5), (c)
[Reserved]
No.
§ 63.6(a), (b)(1)-(b)(5), (b)(7), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(5), (e)(1)(iii), (f)(2), (f)(3), (g), (i), (j)
Compliance with standards and maintenance requirements
Yes
§ 63.11875 specifies compliance dates.
§ 63.6(b)(6), (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(2), (e)(3)(ii), (h)(2)(ii), (h)(3), (h)(5)(iv)
[Reserved]
No
§ 63.6(e)(1)(i), (e)(1)(ii), (e)(3), (f)(1)
Startup, shutdown, and malfunction provisions
No. See § 63.11890(b) for general duty requirement
§ 63.6(h)(1), (h)(2)(i), (h)(2)(iii), (h)(4), (h)(5)(i)-(h)(5)(iii), (h)(5)(v), (h)(6)-(h)(9)
Compliance with opacity and visible emission standards
No
Subpart HHHHHHH does not specify opacity or visible emission standards.
§ 63.7(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (b)-(d), (e)(2)-(e)(4), (f), (g)(1), (g)(3), (h)
Performance testing requirements
Yes.
§ 63.7(a)(2)(i)-(viii)
[Reserved]
No.
§ 63.7(a)(2)(ix)
Performance testing requirements
Yes.
§ 63.7(e)(1)
Performance testing
No. See especially § 63.11945, 63.11960(d), 63.11980(a)
§ 63.7(g)(2)
[Reserved]
No.
§ 63.8(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(4), (b), (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), (c)(2)-(c)(4), (c)(6)-(c)(8)
Monitoring requirements
Yes
Except cross reference in § 63.8(c)(1)(i) to § 63.6(e)(1) is replaced with a cross-reference to § 63.11890(b).
§ 63.8(a)(3)
[Reserved]
No.
§ 63.8(c)(1)(iii)
Requirement to develop SSM plan for continuous monitoring systems
No.
§ 63.8(c)(5)
Continuous opacity monitoring system minimum procedures
No
Subpart HHHHHHH does not have opacity or visible emission standards.
§ 63.8(d)
Written procedures for continuous monitoring systems
Yes, except for last sentence, which refers to an SSM plan. SSM plans are not required
§ 63.8(e)
Continuous monitoring systems performance evaluation
Yes.
§ 63.8(f)
Use of an alternative monitoring method
Yes.
§ 63.8(g)
Reduction of monitoring data
Yes
Except that the minimum data collection requirements are specified in § 63.11935(e).
§ 63.9(a), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(4)(i), (b)(4)(v), (b)(5), (c)-(e), (g)(1), (g)(3), (h)(1)-(h)(3), (h)(5), (h)(6), (i), (j)
Notification requirements
Yes.
§ 63.9(f)
Notification of opacity and visible emission observations
No
Subpart HHHHHHH does not have opacity or visible emission standards.
§ 63.9(g)(2)
Use of continuous opacity monitoring system data
No
Subpart HHHHHHH does not require the use of continuous opacity monitoring system.
§ 63.9(b)(3), (b)(4)(ii)-(iv), (h)(4)
[Reserved]
No.
§ 63.9(k)
Electronic reporting procedures
Yes
Only as specified in § 63.9(j).
§ 63.10(a), (b)(1)
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(i)
Recordkeeping of occurrence and duration of startups and shutdowns
No.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(ii)
Recordkeeping of malfunctions
No. See §§ 63.11895(b), 63.11985(b)(4)(i), 63.11985(b)(9) through (11), and 63.11985(c)(7)
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iii)
Maintenance records
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(iv), (b)(2)(v)
Actions taken to minimize emissions during SSM
No.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vi)
Recordkeeping for CMS malfunctions
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(vii)-(x)
Other CMS requirements
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(2)(xi)-(xiv)
Other recordkeeping requirements
Yes.
§ 63.10(b)(3)
Recordkeeping requirement for applicability determinations
Yes.
§ 63.10(c)(1), (c)(5), (c)(6)
Additional recordkeeping requirements for sources with continuous monitoring systems
Yes.
§ 63.10(c)(2)-(4), (c)(9)
[Reserved]
No.
§ 63.10(c)(7)
Additional recordkeeping requirements for CMS—identifying exceedances and excess emissions during SSM
Yes.
§ 63.10(c)(8)
Additional recordkeeping requirements for CMS—identifying exceedances and excess emissions
Yes.
§ 63.10(c)(10)
Recording nature and cause of malfunctions
No. See §§ 63.11895(b), 63.11985(b)(4)(i), 63.11985(b)(9) through (11), and 63.11985(c)(7)
63.10(c)(11), (c)(12)
Recording corrective actions
No. See §§ 63.11895(b), 63.11985(b)(4)(i), 63.11985(b)(9) through (11), and 63.11985(c)(7)
§ 63.10(c)(13)-(14)
Records of the total process operating time during the reporting period and procedures that are part of the continuous monitoring system quality control program
Yes.
§ 63.10(c)(15)
Use SSM plan
No.
§ 63.10(d)(1)
General reporting requirements
Yes.
§ 63.10(d)(2)
Performance test results
Yes.
§ 63.10(d)(3)
Opacity or visible emissions observations
No
Subpart HHHHHHH does not specify opacity or visible emission standards.
§ 63.10(d)(4)
Progress reports
Yes.
§ 63.10(d)(5)
SSM reports
No. See §§ 63.11895(b), 63.11985(b)(4)(i), 63.11985(b)(9) through (11), and 63.11985(c)(7)
§ 63.10(e)(1)
Additional continuous monitoring system reports—general
Yes.
§ 63.10(e)(2)(i)
Results of continuous monitoring system performance evaluations
Yes.
§ 63.10(e)(2)(ii)
Results of continuous opacity monitoring system performance evaluations
No
Subpart HHHHHHH does not require the use of continuous opacity monitoring system.
§ 63.10(e)(3)
Excess emissions/continuous monitoring system performance reports
Yes.
§ 63.10(e)(4)
Continuous opacity monitoring system data reports
No
Subpart HHHHHHH does not require the use of continuous opacity monitoring system.
§ 63.10(f)
Recordkeeping/reporting waiver
Yes.
63.11(a)
Control device and work practice requirements—applicability
Yes.
§ 63.11(b)
Flares
No
Facilities subject to subpart HHHHHHH do not use flares as control devices, as specified in § 63.11925(b).
§ 63.11(c)-(e)
Alternative work practice for monitoring equipment for leaks
Yes.
§ 63.12
State authority and delegations
Yes
§ 63.12000 identifies types of approval authority that are not delegated.
§ 63.13
Addresses
Yes.
§ 63.14
Incorporations by reference
Yes
Subpart HHHHHHH incorporates material by reference.
§ 63.15
Availability of information and confidentiality
Yes.
§ 63.16
Performance track provisions
Yes.
[77 FR 22906, Apr. 17, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 73921, Nov. 19, 2020]
Pt. 63, Subpt. HHHHHHH, Table 5

# Table 5 to Subpart HHHHHHH of Part 63—Operating Parameters, Operating Limits and Data Monitoring, Recording and Compliance Frequencies for Process Vents
For these control devices, you must monitor these operating parameters . . .
Establish the following operating limit during your initial performance
test . . .
Monitor, record, and demonstrate continuous compliance using these minimum
frequencies
Data measurement
Data recording
Data averaging period for compliance
Process Vents
Any Control device
Flow to/from the control device
N/A
Continuous
N/A
Date and time of flow start and stop.
Thermal Oxidizers
Temperature (in fire box or downstream ductwork prior to heat exchange)
Minimum temperature
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour block average.
Temperature differential across catalyst bed
Minimum temperature differential
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour block average.
Inlet temperature to catalyst bed and catalyst condition
Minimum inlet temperature and catalyst condition as specified in 63.11940 (b)(3)
Continuous for temperature, annual for catalyst condition
Every 15 minutes for temperature, annual for catalyst condition
3-hour block average for temperature, annual for catalyst condition.
Absorbers and Acid Gas Scrubbers
Influent liquid flow
Minimum inlet liquid flow
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour block average.
Influent liquid flow and gas stream flow
Minimum influent liquid flow to gas stream flow ratio
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour block average.
Pressure drop
Minimum pressure drop
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour block average.
Exhaust gas temperature
Maximum exhaust gas temperature
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour block average.
Change in specific gravity of scrubber liquid
Minimum change in specific gravity
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour block average.
pH of effluent liquid
Minimum pH
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour block average.
Causticity of effluent liquid
Minimum causticity
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour block average.
Conductivity of effluent liquid
Minimum conductivity
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour block average.
Regenerative Adsorber
Regeneration stream flow.
Minimum total flow per regeneration cycle
Continuous
N/A
Total flow for each regeneration cycle.
Adsorber bed temperature.
Maximum temperature
Continuously after regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any temperature regulation
Every 15 minutes after regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any temperature regulation
3-hour block average.
Adsorber bed temperature.
Minimum temperature
Continuously during regeneration except during any temperature regulating portion of the regeneration cycle
N/A
Average of regeneration cycle.
Vacuum and duratio of regeneration
Minimum vacuum and period of time for regeneration
Continuous
N/A
Average vacuum and duration of regeneration.
Regeneration frequency
Minimum regeneration frequency and duration
Continuous
N/A
Date and time of regeneration start and stop.
Adsorber operation valve sequencing and cycle time
Correct valve sequencing and minimum cycle time
Daily
Daily
N/A.
Non-Regenerative Adsorber
Average adsorber bed life.
N/A
Daily until breakthrough for 3 adsorber bed change-outs
N/A
N/A.
Outlet VOC concentration of the first adsorber bed in series
Limits in Table 1 or 2 of this subpart
Daily, except monthly (if more than 2 months bed life remaining) or weekly (if more than 2 weeks bed life remaining)
N/A
Daily, weekly, or monthly.
Condenser
Temperature
Maximum outlet temperature
Continuous
Every 15 minutes
3-hour block average.
Pt. 63, Subpt. HHHHHHH, Table 6

# Table 6 to Subpart HHHHHHH of Part 63—Toxic Equivalency Factors
Dioxin/furan congener
Toxic
equivalency
factor
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
1
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
1
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
0.01
octachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
0.0003
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorodibenzofuran
0.3
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorodibenzofuran
0.03
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorodibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorodibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorodibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,6,7,8-hexachlorodibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorodibenzofuran
0.01
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-heptachlorodibenzofuran
0.01
Octachlorodibenzofuran
0.0003
Pt. 63, Subpt. HHHHHHH, Table 7

# Table 7 to Subpart HHHHHHH of Part 63—Calibration and Accuracy Requirements for Continuous Parameter Monitoring Systems
If you monitor this parameter . . .
Then your accuracy requirements are . . .
And your inspection/calibration frequency
requirements are . . .
1. Temperature (non-cryogenic temperature ranges).
±1 percent of temperature measured or 2.8 degrees Celsius (5 degrees Fahrenheit) whichever is greater
Every 12 months.
2. Temperature (cryogenic temperature ranges).
±2.5 percent of temperature measured or 2.8 degrees Celsius (5 degrees Fahrenheit) whichever is greater
Every 12 months.
3. Liquid flow rate
±2 percent of the normal range of flow
a. Every 12 months.
b. You must select a measurement location where swirling flow or abnormal velocity distributions due to upstream and downstream disturbances at the point of measurement do not exist.
4. Gas flow rate
±5 percent of the flow rate or 10 cubic feet per minute, whichever is greater
a. Every 12 months.
b. Check all mechanical connections for leakage at least annually.
c. At least annually, conduct a visual inspection of all components of the flow CPMS for physical and operational integrity and all electrical connections for oxidation and galvanic corrosion if your flow CPMS is not equipped with a redundant flow sensor.
5. pH or caustic strength
±0.2 pH units
Every 8 hours of process operation check the pH or caustic strength meter's calibration on at least two points.
6. Conductivity
±5 percent of normal range
Every 12 months.
7. Mass flow rate
±5 percent of normal range
Every 12 months.
8. Pressure
±5 percent or 0.12 kilopascals (0.5 inches of water column) whichever is greater
a. Calibration is required every 12 months.
b. Check all mechanical connections for leakage at least annually.
c. At least annually perform a visual inspection of all components for integrity, oxidation and galvanic corrosion if CPMS is not equipped with a redundant pressure sensor.
Pt. 63, Subpt. HHHHHHH, Table 8

# Table 8 to Subpart HHHHHHH of Part 63—Methods and Procedures for Conducting Performance Tests for Process Vents
For each control device used to meet the emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart for the following pollutant . . .
You must . . .
Using . . .
1. Total hydrocarbons
a. Measure the total hydrocarbon concentration at the outlet of the final control device or in the stack
Method 25A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7. Conduct each test run for a minimum of 1 hour.
2. Total organic HAP
a. Measure the total organic HAP concentration at the outlet of the final control device or in the stack
i. Method 18 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6 and ASTM D6420-99.
a
Conduct each test run for a minimum of 1 hour.
ii. Method 320 at 40 CFR part 63, appendix A and ASTM D6348-03.
a
Conduct each test run for a minimum of 1 hour.
3. Vinyl chloride
a. Measure the vinyl chloride concentration at the outlet of the final control device or in the stack
Method 18 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6. Conduct each test run for a minimum of 1 hour.
4. Hydrogen chloride
a. Measure hydrogen chloride concentrations at the outlet of the final control device or in the stack
i. Method 26 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8, collect 60 dry standard liters of gas per test run; or
ii. Method 26A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8, collect 1 dry standard cubic meter of gas per test run.
5. Dioxin/furan
a. Measure dioxin/furan concentrations on a toxic equivalency basis (and report total mass per isomer) at the outlet of the final control device or in the stack
Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 and collect 5 dry standard cubic meters of gas per test run.
6. Any pollutant from a continuous, batch, or combination of continuous and batch process vent(s)
a. Select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points
Method 1 or 1A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1.
b. Determine gas velocity and volumetric flow rate
Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 and A-2.
c. Conduct gas molecular weight analysis and correct concentrations the specified percent oxygen in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart
Method 3, 3A, or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2 using the same sampling site and time as HAP samples.
d. Measure gas moisture content
Method 4 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3.
a
Incorporated by reference, see § 63.14.
Pt. 63, Subpt. HHHHHHH, Table 9

# Table 9 to Subpart HHHHHHH of Part 63—Procedures for Conducting Sampling of Stripped Resin and Process Wastewater
For demonstrating . . .
For the following emission points and types of processes . . .
Collect samples according to the following schedule . . .
Vinyl chloride . . .
Total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP . . .
Each stripped resin stream
1. Initial compliance
a. Continuous
Every 8 hours or for each grade, whichever is more frequent during a 24 hour period
Every 8 hours or for each grade, whichever is more frequent during a 24 hour period.
b. Batch
1 grab sample for each batch produced during a 24 hour period
1 grab sample for each batch produced during a 24 hour period.
2. Continuous compliance
a. Continuous
On a daily basis, 1 grab sample every 8 hours or for each grade, whichever is more frequent during a 24 hour period
On a monthly basis, 1 grab sample every 8 hours or for each grade, whichever is more frequent during a 24 hour period.
b. Batch
On a daily basis, 1 grab sample for each batch produced during a 24 hour period
On a monthly basis, 1 grab sample for each batch produced during a 24 hour period.
Each process wastewater stream
3. Initial compliance
N/A
1 grab sample
1 grab sample.
4. Continuous compliance
N/A
1 grab sample per month
1 grab sample per month.
Pt. 63, Subpt. HHHHHHH, Table 10

# Table 10 to Subpart HHHHHHH of Part 63—HAP Subject to the Resin and Process Wastewater Provisions at New and Existing Sources
CAS No.
HAP
Analyte category
Test method
107211
Ethylene glycol
Alcohol
SW-846-8015C.
a
67561
Methanol
Alcohol
SW-846-8015C.
a
75070
Acetaldehyde
Aldehyde
SW-846-8315A.
a
50000
Formaldehyde
Aldehyde
SW-846-8315A.
a
51285
2,4-dinitrophenol
SVOC
SW-846-8270D.
a
98862
Acetophenone
SVOC
SW-846-8270D.
a
117817
Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP)
SVOC
SW-846-8270D.
a
123319
Hydroquinone
SVOC
SW-846-8270D.
a
108952
Phenol
SVOC
SW-846-8270D.
a
79345
1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
106990
1,3-butadiene
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
540841
2,2,4-trimethylpentane
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
71432
Benzene
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
108907
Chlorobenzene
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
67663
Chloroform
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
126998
Chloroprene
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
98828
Cumene
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
75003
Ethyl chloride (Chloroethane)
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
100414
Ethylbenzene
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
107062
Ethylene dichloride (1,2-Dichloroethane)
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
75343
Ethylidene dichloride (1,1-Dichloroethane)
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
74873
Methyl chloride (Chloromethane)
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
75092
Methylene chloride
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
110543
n-Hexane
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
108883
Toluene
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
71556/79005
Trichloroethane
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
108054
Vinyl acetate
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
593602
Vinyl bromide
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
75014
Vinyl chloride
VOC
Method 107 at 40 CFR part 61, appendix B.
75354
Vinylidene chloride (1,1-Dichloroethylene)
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
1330207
Xylenes (isomers and mixtures)
VOC
SW-846-8260B.
a
a
Incorporated by reference, see § 63.14.
Pt. 63, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 63—Test Methods

# Method 301—Field Validation of Pollutant Measurement Methods From Various Waste Media

# Using Method 301

# 1.0 What is the purpose of Method 301?

# 2.0 What approval must I have to use Method 301?

# 3.0 What does Method 301 include?

# 4.0 How do I perform Method 301?

# Reference Materials

# 5.0 What reference materials must I use?

# Sampling Procedures

# 6.0 What sampling procedures must I use?

# 7.0 How do I ensure sample stability?

# Determination of Bias and Precision

# 8.0 What are the requirements for bias?

# 9.0 What are the requirements for precision?

# 10.0 What calculations must I perform for isotopic spiking?

# 11.0 What calculations must I perform for comparison with a validated method?

# 12.0 What calculations must I perform for analyte spiking?

# 13.0 How do I conduct tests at similar sources?

# Optional Requirements

# 14.0 How do I use and conduct ruggedness testing?

# 15.0 How do I determine the Limit of Detection for the candidate test method?

# Other Requirements and Information

# 16.0 How do I apply for approval to use a candidate test method?

# 17.0 How do I request a waiver?

# 18.0 Where can I find additional information?

# 19.0 Tables.

# Using Method 301

# 1.0 What is the purpose of Method 301?
Method 301 provides a set of procedures for the owner or operator of an affected source to validate a candidate test method as an alternative to a required test method based on established precision and bias criteria. These validation procedures are applicable under 40 CFR part 63 or 65 when a test method is proposed as an alternative test method to meet an applicable requirement or in the absence of a validated method. Additionally, the validation procedures of Method 301 are appropriate for demonstration of the suitability of alternative test methods under 40 CFR parts 59, 60, and 61. If, under 40 CFR part 63 or 60, you choose to propose a validation method other than Method 301, you must submit and obtain the Administrator's approval for the candidate validation method.

# 2.0 What approval must I have to use Method 301?
If you want to use a candidate test method to meet requirements in a subpart of 40 CFR part 59, 60, 61, 63, or 65, you must also request approval to use the candidate test method according to the procedures in Section 16 of this method and the appropriate section of the part (§ 59.104, § 59.406, § 60.8(b), § 61.13(h)(1)(ii), § 63.7(f), or § 65.158(a)(2)(iii)). You must receive the Administrator's written approval to use the candidate test method before you use the candidate test method to meet the applicable federal requirements. In some cases, the Administrator may decide to waive the requirement to use Method 301 for a candidate test method to be used to meet a requirement under 40 CFR part 59, 60, 61, 63, or 65 in absence of a validated test method. Section 17 of this method describes the requirements for obtaining a waiver.

# 3.0 What does Method 301 include?
3.1
Procedures.
Method 301 includes minimum procedures to determine and document systematic error (bias) and random error (precision) of measured concentrations from exhaust gases, wastewater, sludge, and other media. Bias is established by comparing the results of sampling and analysis against a reference value. Bias may be adjusted on a source-specific basis using a correction factor and data obtained during the validation test. Precision may be determined using a paired sampling system or quadruplicate sampling system for isotopic spiking. A quadruplicate sampling system is required when establishing precision for analyte spiking or when comparing a candidate test method to a validated method. If such procedures have not been established and verified for the candidate test method, Method 301 contains procedures for ensuring sample stability by developing sample storage procedures and limitations and then testing them. Method 301 also includes procedures for ruggedness testing and determining detection limits. The procedures for ruggedness testing and determining detection limits are required for candidate test methods that are to be applied to multiple sources and optional for candidate test methods that are to be applied at a single source.
3.2
Definitions.
Affected source
means an affected source as defined in the relevant part and subpart under Title 40 (
e.g.,
40 CFR parts 59, 60, 61, 63, and 65).
Candidate test method
means the sampling and analytical methodology selected for field validation using the procedures described in Method 301. The candidate test method may be an alternative test method under 40 CFR part 59, 60, 61, 63, or 65.
Paired sampling system
means a sampling system capable of obtaining two replicate samples that are collected as closely as possible in sampling time and sampling location (collocated).
Quadruplicate sampling system
means a sampling system capable of obtaining four replicate samples (
e.g.,
two pairs of measured data, one pair from each method when comparing a candidate test method against a validated test method, or analyte spiking with two spiked and two unspiked samples) that are collected as close as possible in sampling time and sampling location.
Surrogate compound
means a compound that serves as a model for the target compound(s) being measured (
i.e.,
similar chemical structure, properties, behavior). The surrogate compound can be distinguished by the candidate test method from the compounds being analyzed.

# 4.0 How do I perform Method 301?
First, you use a known concentration of an analyte or compare the candidate test method against a validated test method to determine the bias of the candidate test method. Then, you collect multiple, collocated simultaneous samples to determine the precision of the candidate test method. Additional procedures, including validation testing over a broad range of concentrations over an extended time period are used to expand the applicability of a candidate test method to multiple sources. Sections 5.0 through 17.0 of this method describe the procedures in detail.

# Reference Materials

# 5.0 What reference materials must I use?
You must use reference materials (a material or substance with one or more properties that are sufficiently homogenous to the analyte) that are traceable to a national standards body (
e.g.,
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)) at the level of the applicable emission limitation or standard that the subpart in 40 CFR part 59, 60, 61, 63, or 65 requires. If you want to expand the applicable range of the candidate test method, you must conduct additional test runs using analyte concentrations higher and lower than the applicable emission limitation or the anticipated level of the target analyte. You must obtain information about your analyte according to the procedures in Sections 5.1 through 5.4 of this method.
5.1
Exhaust Gas Test Concentration.
You must obtain a known concentration of each analyte from an independent source such as a specialty gas manufacturer, specialty chemical company, or chemical laboratory. You must also obtain the manufacturer's certification of traceability, uncertainty, and stability for the analyte concentration.
5.2
Tests for Other Waste Media.
You must obtain the pure liquid components of each analyte from an independent manufacturer. The manufacturer must certify the purity, traceability, uncertainty, and shelf life of the pure liquid components. You must dilute the pure liquid components in the same type medium or matrix as the waste from the affected source.
5.3
Surrogate Analytes.
If you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that a surrogate compound behaves as the analyte does, then you may use surrogate compounds for highly toxic or reactive compounds. A surrogate may be an isotope or compound that contains a unique element (
e.g.,
chlorine) that is not present in the source or a derivation of the toxic or reactive compound if the derivative formation is part of the method's procedure. You may use laboratory experiments or literature data to show behavioral acceptability.
5.4
Isotopically-Labeled Materials.
Isotope mixtures may contain the isotope and the natural analyte. The concentration of the isotopically-labeled analyte must be more than five times the concentration of the naturally-occurring analyte.

# Sampling Procedures

# 6.0 What sampling procedures must I use?
You must determine bias and precision by comparison against a validated test method using isotopic spiking or using analyte spiking (or the equivalent). Isotopic spiking can only be used with candidate test methods capable of measuring multiple isotopes simultaneously such as test methods using mass spectrometry or radiological procedures. You must collect samples according to the requirements specified in Table 301-1 of this method. You must perform the sampling according to the procedures in Sections 6.1 through 6.4 of this method.
6.1
Isotopic Spiking.
Spike all 12 samples with isotopically-labelled analyte at an analyte mass or concentration level equivalent to the emission limitation or standard specified in the applicable regulation. If there is no applicable emission limitation or standard, spike the analyte at the expected level of the samples. Follow the applicable spiking procedures in Section 6.3 of this method.
6.2
Analyte Spiking.
In each quadruplicate set, spike half of the samples (two out of the
four samples) with the analyte according to the applicable procedure in Section 6.3 of this method. You should spike at an analyte mass or concentration level equivalent to the emission limitation or standard specified in the applicable regulation. If there is no applicable emission limitation or standard, spike the analyte at the expected level of the samples. Follow the applicable spiking procedures in Section 6.3 of this method.
6.3
Spiking Procedure.
6.3.1
Gaseous Analyte with Sorbent or Impinger Sampling Train.
Sample the analyte being spiked (in the laboratory or preferably in the field) at a mass or concentration that is approximately equivalent to the applicable emission limitation or standard (or the expected sample concentration or mass where there is no standard) for the time required by the candidate test method, and then sample the stack gas stream for an equal amount of time. The time for sampling both the analyte and stack gas stream should be equal; however, you must adjust the sampling time to avoid sorbent breakthrough. You may sample the stack gas and the gaseous analyte at the same time. You must introduce the analyte as close to the tip of the sampling probe as possible.
6.3.2
Gaseous Analyte with Sample Container (Bag or Canister).
Spike the sample containers after completion of each test run with an analyte mass or concentration to yield a concentration approximately equivalent to the applicable emission limitation or standard (or the expected sample concentration or mass where there is no standard). Thus, the final concentration of the analyte in the sample container would be approximately equal to the analyte concentration in the stack gas plus the equivalent of the applicable emission standard (corrected for spike volume). The volume amount of spiked gas must be less than 10 percent of the sample volume of the container.
6.3.3
Liquid or Solid Analyte with Sorbent or Impinger Trains.
Spike the sampling trains with an amount approximately equivalent to the mass or concentration in the applicable emission limitation or standard (or the expected sample concentration or mass where there is no standard) before sampling the stack gas. If possible, do the spiking in the field. If it is not possible to do the spiking in the field, you must spike the sampling trains in the laboratory.
6.3.4
Liquid and Solid Analyte with Sample Container (Bag or Canister).
Spike the containers at the completion of each test run with an analyte mass or concentration approximately equivalent to the applicable emission limitation or standard in the subpart (or the expected sample concentration or mass where there is no standard).
6.4
Probe Placement and Arrangement for Stationary Source Stack or Duct Sampling.
To sample a stationary source, you must place the paired or quadruplicate probes according to the procedures in this subsection. You must place the probe tips in the same horizontal plane. Section 17.1 of Method 301 describes conditions for waivers. For example, the Administrator may approve a validation request where other paired arrangements for the probe tips or pitot tubes (where required) are used.
6.4.1
Paired Sampling Probes.
For paired sampling probes, the first probe tip should be 2.5 centimeters (cm) from the outside edge of the second probe tip, with a pitot tube on the outside of each probe.
6.4.2
Quadruplicate Sampling Probes.
For quadruplicate sampling probes, the tips should be in a 6.0 cm × 6.0 cm square area measured from the center line of the opening of the probe tip with a single pitot tube, where required, in the center of the probe tips or two pitot tubes, where required, with their location on either side of the probe tip configuration. Section 17.1 of Method 301 describes conditions for waivers. For example, you must propose an alternative arrangement whenever the cross-sectional area of the probe tip configuration is approximately five percent or more of the stack or duct cross-sectional area.

# 7.0 How do I ensure sample stability?
7.1
Developing Sample Storage and Threshold Procedures.
If the candidate test method includes well-established procedures supported by experimental data for sample storage and the time within which the collected samples must be analyzed, you must store the samples according to the procedures in the candidate test method and you are not required to conduct the procedures specified in Section 7.2 or 7.3 of this method. If the candidate test method does not include such procedures, your candidate method must include procedures for storing and analyzing samples to ensure sample stability. At a minimum, your proposed procedures must meet the requirements in Section 7.2 or 7.3 of this method. The minimum duration between sample collection and storage must be as soon as possible, but no longer than 72 hours after collection of the sample. The maximum storage duration must not be longer than 2 weeks.
7.2
Storage and Sampling Procedures for Stack Test Emissions.
You must store and analyze samples of stack test emissions according to Table 301-2 of this method. You may reanalyze the same sample at both the minimum and maximum storage durations for: (1) Samples collected in containers such as bags or canisters that are not subject to dilution or other preparation steps, or (2) impinger samples not subjected to preparation steps that would affect stability of the sample such as extraction or digestion. For candidate test method samples that do not meet either of these criteria, you must analyze
one of a pair of replicate samples at the minimum storage duration and the other replicate at the proposed storage duration but no later than 2 weeks of the initial analysis to identify the effect of storage duration on analyte samples. If you are using the isotopic spiking procedure, then you must analyze each sample for the spiked analyte and the native analyte.
7.3
Storage and Sampling Procedures for Testing Other Waste Media (e.g., Soil/Sediment, Solid Waste, Water/Liquid).
You must analyze one of each pair of replicate samples (half the total samples) at the minimum storage duration and the other replicate (other half of samples) at the maximum storage duration or within 2 weeks of the initial analysis to identify the effect of storage duration on analyte samples. The minimum time period between collection and storage should be as soon as possible, but no longer than 72 hours after collection of the sample.
7.4
Sample Stability.
After you have conducted sampling and analysis according to Section 7.2 or 7.3 of this method, compare the results at the minimum and maximum storage durations. Calculate the difference in the results using Equation 301-1.
ER20MR18.000
Where:
d
i
= Difference between the results of the i
th
replicate pair of samples.
R
mini
= Results from the i
th
replicate sample pair at the minimum storage duration.
R
maxi
= Results from the i
th
replicate sample pair at the maximum storage duration.
For single samples that can be reanalyzed for sample stability assessment (
e.g.,
bag or canister samples and impinger samples that do not require digestion or extraction), the values for R
mini
and R
maxi
will be obtained from the same sample rather than replicate samples.
7.4.1
Standard Deviation.
Determine the standard deviation of the paired samples using Equation 301-2.
ER20MR18.001
Where:
SD
d
= Standard deviation of the differences of the paired samples.
d
i
= Difference between the results of the i
th
replicate pair of samples.
d
m
= Mean of the paired sample differences.
n = Total number of paired samples.
7.4.2
T Test.
Test the difference in the results for statistical significance by calculating the t-statistic and determining if the mean of the differences between the results at the minimum storage duration and the results after the maximum storage duration is significant at the 95 percent confidence level and n-1 degrees of freedom. Calculate the value of the t-statistic using Equation 301-3.
ER20MR18.002
Where:
t
= t-statistic.
d
m
= The mean of the paired sample differences.
SD
d
= Standard deviation of the differences of the paired samples.
n = Total number of paired samples.
Compare the calculated t-statistic with the critical value of the t-statistic from Table 301-3 of this method. If the calculated t-value is less than the critical value, the difference is not statistically significant. Therefore, the sampling, analysis, and sample storage procedures ensure stability, and you may submit a request for validation of the candidate test method. If the calculated t-value is greater than the critical value, the difference is statistically significant, and you must repeat the procedures in Section 7.2 or 7.3 of this method with new samples using a shorter proposed maximum storage duration or improved handling and storage procedures.

# Determination of Bias and Precision

# 8.0 What are the requirements for bias?
You must determine bias by comparing the results of sampling and analysis using the candidate test method against a reference value. The bias must be no more than ±10 percent for the candidate test method to be considered for application to multiple sources. A candidate test method with a bias greater than ±10 percent and less than or equal to ±30 percent can only be applied on a source-specific basis at the facility at which the validation testing was conducted. In this case, you must use a correction factor for all data collected in the future using the candidate test method. If the bias is more than ±30 percent, the candidate test method is unacceptable.

# 9.0 What are the requirements for precision?
You may use a paired sampling system or a quadruplicate sampling system to establish precision for isotopic spiking. You must use a quadruplicate sampling system to establish precision for analyte spiking or when comparing a candidate test method to a validated method. If you are using analyte spiking or isotopic spiking, the precision, expressed as the relative standard deviation (RSD) of the candidate test method, must be less than or equal to 20 percent. If you are comparing the candidate test method to a validated test method, the candidate test method must be at least as precise as the validated method as determined by an F test (see Section 11.2.2 of this method).

# 10.0 What calculations must I perform for isotopic spiking?
You must analyze the bias, RSD, precision, and data acceptance for isotopic spiking tests according to the provisions in Sections 10.1 through 10.4 of this method.
10.1
Numerical Bias.
Calculate the numerical value of the bias using the results from the analysis of the isotopic spike in the field samples and the calculated value of the spike according to Equation 301-4.
ER20MR18.003
Where:
B = Bias at the spike level.
S
m
= Mean of the measured values of the isotopically-labeled analyte in the samples.
CS = Calculated value of the isotopically-labeled spike level.
10.2
Standard Deviation.
Calculate the standard deviation of the S
i
values according to Equation 301-5.
ER20MR18.004
Where:
SD = Standard deviation of the candidate test method.
S
i
= Measured value of the isotopically-labeled analyte in the i
th
field sample.
S
m
= Mean of the measured values of the isotopically-labeled analyte in the samples.
n = Number of isotopically-spiked samples.
10.3
T Test.
Test the bias for statistical significance by calculating the t-statistic using Equation 301-6. Use the standard deviation determined in Section 10.2 of this method and the numerical bias determined in Section 10.1 of this method.
ER20MR18.005
Where:
t = Calculated t-statistic.
B = Bias at the spike level.
SD = Standard deviation of the candidate test method.
n = Number of isotopically spike samples.
Compare the calculated t-value with the critical value of the two-sided t-distribution at the 95 percent confidence level and n-1 degrees of freedom (see Table 301-3 of this method). When you conduct isotopic spiking according to the procedures specified in Sections 6.1 and 6.3 of this method as required, this critical value is 2.201 for 11 degrees of freedom. If the calculated t-value is less than or equal to the critical value, the bias is not statistically significant, and the bias of the candidate test method is acceptable. If the calculated t-value is greater than the critical value, the bias is statistically significant, and you must evaluate the relative magnitude of the bias using Equation 301-7.
ER20MR18.006
Where:
B
R
= Relative bias.
B = Bias at the spike level.
CS = Calculated value of the spike level.
If the relative bias is less than or equal to 10 percent, the bias of the candidate test method is acceptable for use at multiple sources. If the relative bias is greater than 10 percent but less than or equal to 30 percent, and if you correct all data collected with the candidate test method in the future for bias using the source-specific correction factor determined in Equation 301-8, the candidate test method is acceptable only for application to the source at which the validation testing was conducted and may not be applied to any other sites. If either of the preceding two cases applies, you may continue to evaluate the candidate test method by calculating its precision. If not, the candidate test method does not meet the requirements of Method 301.
ER20MR18.007
Where:
CF = Source-specific bias correction factor.
B = Bias at the spike level.
CS = Calculated value of the spike level.
If the CF is outside the range of 0.70 to 1.30, the data and method are considered unacceptable.
10.4
Precision.
Calculate the RSD according to Equation 301-9.
ER20MR18.008
Where:
RSD = Relative standard deviation of the candidate test method.
SD = Standard deviation of the candidate test method calculated in Equation 301-5.
S
m
= Mean of the measured values of the spike samples.
The data and candidate test method are unacceptable if the RSD is greater than 20 percent.

# 11.0 What calculations must I perform for comparison with a validated method?
If you are comparing a candidate test method to a validated method, then you must analyze the data according to the provisions in this section. If the data from the candidate test method fail either the bias or precision test, the data and the candidate test method are unacceptable. If the Administrator determines that the affected source has highly variable emission rates, the Administrator may require additional precision checks.
11.1
Bias Analysis.
Test the bias for statistical significance at the 95 percent confidence level by calculating the t-statistic.
11.1.1
Bias.
Determine the bias, which is defined as the mean of the differences between the candidate test method and the validated method (d
m
). Calculate d
i
according to Equation 301-10.
ER20MR18.009
Where:
d
i
= Difference in measured value between the candidate test method and the validated method for each quadruplicate sampling train.
V
1i
= First measured value with the validated method in the ith quadruplicate sampling train.
V
2i
= Second measured value with the validated method in the ith quadruplicate sampling train.
P
1i
= First measured value with the candidate test method in the ith quadruplicate sampling train.
P
2i
= Second measured value with the candidate test method in the ith quadruplicate sampling train.
Calculate the numerical value of the bias using Equation 301-11.
ER20MR18.010
Where:
B = Numerical bias.
d
i
= Difference between the candidate test method and the validated method for the ith quadruplicate sampling train.
n = Number of quadruplicate sampling trains.
11.1.2
Standard Deviation of the Differences.
Calculate the standard deviation of the differences, SD
d
, using Equation 301-12.
ER20MR18.011
Where:
SD
d
= Standard deviation of the differences between the candidate test method and the validated method.
d
i =
Difference in measured value between the candidate test method and the validated method for each quadruplicate sampling train.
d
m =
Mean of the differences, d
i,
between the candidate test method and the validated method.
n = Number of quadruplicate sampling trains.
11.1.3
T Test.
Calculate the t-statistic using Equation 301-13.
ER07OC20.017
Where:
t
= Calculated t-statistic.
d
m
= The mean of the differences, d
i
, between the candidate test method and the validated method.
SD
d
= Standard deviation of the differences between the candidate test method and the validated method.
n = Number of quadruplicate sampling trains.
For the procedure comparing a candidate test method to a validated test method listed in Table 301-1 of this method, n equals six. Compare the calculated t-statistic with the critical value of the t-statistic, and determine if the bias is significant at the 95 percent confidence level (see Table 301-3 of this method). When six runs are conducted, as specified in Table 301-1 of this method, the critical value of the t-statistic is 2.571 for five degrees of freedom. If the calculated t-value is less than or equal to the critical value, the bias is not statistically significant and the data are acceptable. If the calculated t-value is greater than the critical value, the bias is statistically significant, and you must evaluate the magnitude of the relative bias using Equation 301-14.
ER20MR18.013
Where:
B
R =
Relative bias.
B = Bias as calculated in Equation 301-11.
VS = Mean of measured values from the validated method.
If the relative bias is less than or equal to 10 percent, the bias of the candidate test method is acceptable. On a source-specific basis, if the relative bias is greater than 10 percent but less than or equal to 30 percent, and if you correct all data collected in the future with the candidate test method for the bias using the correction factor, CF, determined in Equation 301-8 (using VS for CS), the bias of the candidate test method is acceptable for application to the source at which the validation testing was conducted. If either of the preceding two cases applies, you may continue to evaluate the candidate test method by calculating its precision. If not, the candidate test method does not meet the requirements of Method 301.
11.2
Precision.
Compare the estimated variance (or standard deviation) of the candidate test method to that of the validated test method according to Sections 11.2.1 and 11.2.2 of this method. If a significant difference is determined using the F test, the
candidate test method and the results are rejected. If the F test does not show a significant difference, then the candidate test method has acceptable precision.
11.2.1
Candidate Test Method Variance.
Calculate the estimated variance of the candidate test method according to Equation 301-15.
ER20MR18.014
Where:
p
= Estimated variance of the candidate test method.
d
i
= The difference between the i
th
pair of samples collected with the candidate test method in a single quadruplicate train.
n = Total number of paired samples (quadruplicate trains).
Calculate the estimated variance of the validated test method according to Equation 301-16.
ER20MR18.015
Where:
v
= Estimated variance of the validated test method.
d
i
= The difference between the i
th
pair of samples collected with the validated test method in a single quadruplicate train.
n = Total number of paired samples (quadruplicate trains).
11.2.2
The F test.
Determine if the estimated variance of the candidate test method is greater than that of the validated method by calculating the F-value using Equation 301-17.
ER20MR18.016
Where:
F = Calculated F value.
p
= The estimated variance of the candidate test method.
v
= The estimated variance of the validated method.
Compare the calculated F value with the one-sided confidence level for F from Table 301-4 of this method. The upper one-sided confidence level of 95 percent for F
(6,6)
is 4.28 when the procedure specified in Table 301-1 of this method for quadruplicate sampling trains is followed. If the calculated F value is greater than the critical F value, the difference in precision is significant, and the data and the candidate test method are unacceptable.

# 12.0 What calculations must I perform for analyte spiking?
You must analyze the data for analyte spike testing according to this section.
12.1
Bias Analysis.
Test the bias for statistical significance at the 95 percent confidence level by calculating the t-statistic.
12.1.1
Bias.
Determine the bias, which is defined as the mean of the differences between the spiked samples and the unspiked samples in each quadruplicate sampling train minus the spiked amount, using Equation 301-18.
ER20MR18.017
Where:
d
i
= Difference between the spiked samples and unspiked samples in each quadruplicate sampling train minus the spiked amount.
S
1i
= Measured value of the first spiked sample in the i
th
quadruplicate sampling train.
S
2i
= Measured value of the second spiked sample in the i
th
quadruplicate sampling train.
M
1i
= Measured value of the first unspiked sample in the i
th
quadruplicate sampling train.
M
2i
= Measured value of the second unspiked sample in the i
th
quadruplicate sampling train.
CS = Calculated value of the spike level.
Calculate the numerical value of the bias using Equation 301-19.
ER20MR18.018
Where:
B = Numerical value of the bias.
d
i
= Difference between the spiked samples and unspiked samples in each quadruplicate sampling train minus the spiked amount.
n = Number of quadruplicate sampling trains.
12.1.2
Standard Deviation of the Differences.
Calculate the standard deviation of the differences using Equation 301-20.
ER20MR18.019
Where:
SD
d
= Standard deviation of the differences of paired samples.
d
i
= Difference between the spiked samples and unspiked samples in each quadruplicate sampling train minus the spiked amount.
d
m
= The mean of the differences, d
i
, between the spiked samples and unspiked samples.
n = Total number of quadruplicate sampling trains.
12.1.3
T Test.
Calculate the t-statistic using Equation 301-21, where n is the total number of test sample differences (d
i
). For the quadruplicate sampling system procedure in Table 301-1 of this method, n equals six.
ER20MR18.020
Where:
t = Calculated t-statistic.
d
m
= Mean of the difference, d
i,
between the spiked samples and unspiked samples.
SD
d
= Standard deviation of the differences of paired samples.
n = Number of quadruplicate sampling trains.
Compare the calculated t-statistic with the critical value of the t-statistic, and determine if the bias is significant at the 95 percent confidence level. When six quadruplicate runs are conducted, as specified in Table 301-1 of this method, the 2-sided confidence level critical value is 2.571 for the five degrees of freedom. If the calculated t-value is less than the critical value, the bias is not statistically significant and the data are acceptable. If the calculated t-value is greater than the critical value, the bias is statistically significant and you must evaluate the magnitude of the relative bias using Equation 301-22.
ER20MR18.021
Where:
B
R
= Relative bias.
B = Bias at the spike level from Equation 301-19.
CS = Calculated value at the spike level.
If the relative bias is less than or equal to 10 percent, the bias of the candidate test method is acceptable. On a source-specific basis, if the relative bias is greater than 10 percent but less than or equal to 30 percent, and if you correct all data collected with the candidate test method in the future for the magnitude of the bias using Equation 301-8, the bias of the candidate test method is acceptable for application to the tested source at which the validation testing was conducted. Proceed to evaluate precision of the candidate test method.
12.2
Precision.
Calculate the standard deviation using Equation 301-23.
ER20MR18.022
Where:
SD = Standard deviation of the candidate test method.
S
i
= Measured value of the analyte in the i
th
spiked sample.
S
m
= Mean of the measured values of the analyte in all the spiked samples.
n = Number of spiked samples.
Calculate the RSD of the candidate test method using Equation 301-9, where SD and S
m
are the values from Equation 301-23. The data and candidate test method are unacceptable if the RSD is greater than 20 percent.

# 13.0 How do I conduct tests at similar sources?
If the Administrator has approved the use of an alternative test method to a test method required in 40 CFR part 59, 60, 61, 63, or 65 for an affected source, and you would like to apply the alternative test method to a similar source, then you must petition the Administrator as described in Section 17.1.1 of this method.

# Optional Requirements

# 14.0 How do I use and conduct ruggedness testing?
Ruggedness testing is an optional requirement for validation of a candidate test method that is intended for the source where the validation testing was conducted. Ruggedness testing is required for validation of a candidate test method intended to be used at multiple sources. If you want to use a validated test method at a concentration that is different from the concentration in the applicable emission limitation under 40 CFR part 59, 60, 61, 63, or 65, or for a source category that is different from the source category that the test method specifies, then you must conduct ruggedness testing according to the procedures in Reference 18.16 of
Section 18.0 of this method and submit a request for a waiver for conducting Method 301 at that different source category according to Section 17.1.1 of this method.
Ruggedness testing is a study that can be conducted in the laboratory or the field to determine the sensitivity of a method to parameters such as analyte concentration, sample collection rate, interferent concentration, collection medium temperature, and sample recovery temperature. You conduct ruggedness testing by changing several variables simultaneously instead of changing one variable at a time. For example, you can determine the effect of seven variables in only eight experiments. (W.J. Youden, Statistical Manual of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists, Association of Official Analytical Chemists, Washington, DC, 1975, pp. 33-36).

# 15.0 How do I determine the Limit of Detection for the candidate test method?
Determination of the Limit of Detection (LOD) as specified in Sections 15.1 and 15.2 of this method is required for source-specific method validation and validation of a candidate test method intended to be used for multiple sources.
15.1
Limit of Detection.
The LOD is the minimum concentration of a substance that can be measured and reported with 99 percent confidence that the analyte concentration is greater than zero. For this protocol, the LOD is defined as three times the standard deviation, S
o
, at the blank level.
15.2
Purpose.
The LOD establishes the lower detection limit of the candidate test method. You must calculate the LOD using the applicable procedures found in Table 301-5 of this method. For candidate test methods that collect the analyte in a sample matrix prior to an analytical measurement, you must determine the LOD using Procedure I in Table 301-5 of this method by calculating a method detection limit (MDL) as described in 40 CFR part 136, appendix B. For the purposes of this section, the LOD is equivalent to the calculated MDL. For radiochemical methods, use the Multi-Agency Radiological Laboratory Analytical Protocols (MARLAP) Manual (
i.e.,
use the minimum detectable concentration (MDC) and not the LOD) available at
https://www.epa.gov/radiation/marlap-manual-and-supporting-documents.

# Other Requirements and Information

# 16.0 How do I apply for approval to use a candidate test method?
16.1
Submitting Requests.
You must request to use a candidate test method according to the procedures in § 63.7(f) or similar sections of 40 CFR parts 59, 60, 61, and 65 (§ 59.104, § 59.406, § 60.8(b), § 61.13(h)(1)(ii), or § 65.158(a)(2)(iii)). You cannot use a candidate test method to meet any requirement under these parts until the Administrator has approved your request. The request must include a field validation report containing the information in Section 16.2 of this method. You must submit the request to the Group Leader, Measurement Technology Group, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, E143-02, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.
16.2
Field Validation Report.
The field validation report must contain the information in Sections 16.2.1 through 16.2.8 of this method.
16.2.1
Regulatory objectives for the testing, including a description of the reasons for the test, applicable emission limits, and a description of the source.
16.2.2
Summary of the results and calculations shown in Sections 6.0 through 16.0 of this method, as applicable.
16.2.3
Reference material certification and value(s).
16.2.4
Discussion of laboratory evaluations.
16.2.5
Discussion of field sampling.
16.2.6
Discussion of sample preparation and analysis.
16.2.7
Storage times of samples (and extracts, if applicable).
16.2.8
Reasons for eliminating any results.

# 17.0 How do I request a waiver?
17.1
Conditions for Waivers.
If you meet one of the criteria in Section 17.1.1 or 17.1.2 of this method, the Administrator may waive the requirement to use the procedures in this method to validate an alternative or other candidate test method. In addition, if the EPA currently recognizes an appropriate test method or considers the candidate test method to be satisfactory for a particular source, the Administrator may waive the use of this protocol or may specify a less rigorous validation procedure.
17.1.1
Similar Sources.
If the alternative or other candidate test method that you want to use was validated for source-specific application at another source and you can demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that your affected source is similar to that validated source, then the Administrator may waive the requirement for you to validate the alternative or other candidate test method. One procedure you may use to demonstrate the applicability of the method to your affected source is to conduct a ruggedness test as described in Section 14.0 of this method.
17.1.2
Documented Methods.
If the bias, precision, LOD, or ruggedness of the alternative or other candidate test method that you are proposing have been demonstrated through laboratory tests or protocols different from this method, and you can demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that the bias, precision, LOD, or ruggedness apply to your application, then the Administrator may waive the requirement to use this method or to use part of this method.
17.2
Submitting Applications for Waivers.
You must sign and submit each request for a waiver from the requirements in this method in writing. The request must be submitted to the Group Leader, Measurement Technology Group, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, E143-02, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.
17.3
Information Application for Waiver.
The request for a waiver must contain a thorough description of the candidate test method, the intended application, and results of any validation or other supporting documents. The request for a waiver must contain, at a minimum, the information in Sections 17.3.1 through 17.3.4 of this method. The Administrator may request additional information if necessary to determine whether this method can be waived for a particular application.
17.3.1
A Clearly Written Test Method.
The candidate test method should be written preferably in the format of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Test Methods. Additionally, the candidate test must include an applicability statement, concentration range, precision, bias (accuracy), and minimum and maximum storage durations in which samples must be analyzed.
17.3.2
Summaries of Previous Validation Tests or Other Supporting Documents.
If you use a different procedure from that described in this method, you must submit documents substantiating the bias and precision values to the Administrator's satisfaction.
17.3.3
Ruggedness Testing Results.
You must submit results of ruggedness testing conducted according to Section 14.0 of this method, sample stability conducted according to Section 7.0 of this method, and detection limits conducted according to Section 15.0 of this method, as applicable. For example, you would not need to submit ruggedness testing results if you will be using the method at the same affected source and level at which it was validated.
17.3.4
Applicability Statement and Basis for Waiver Approval.
Discussion of the applicability statement and basis for approval of the waiver. This discussion should address as applicable the following: applicable regulation, emission standards, effluent characteristics, and process operations.

# 18.0 Where can I find additional information?
You can find additional information in the references in Sections 18.1 through 18.18 of this method.
18.1 Albritton, J.R., G.B. Howe, S.B. Tompkins, R.K.M. Jayanty, and C.E. Decker. 1989. Stability of Parts-Per-Million Organic Cylinder Gases and Results of Source Test Analysis Audits, Status Report No. 11. Environmental Protection Agency Contract 68-02-4125. Research Triangle Institute, Research Triangle Park, NC. September.
18.2 ASTM Standard E 1169-89 (current version), “Standard Guide for Conducting Ruggedness Tests,” available from ASTM, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohoken, PA 19428.
18.3 DeWees, W.G., P.M. Grohse, K.K. Luk, and F.E. Butler. 1989. Laboratory and Field Evaluation of a Methodology for Speciating Nickel Emissions from Stationary Sources. EPA Contract 68-02-4442. Prepared for Atmospheric Research and Environmental Assessment Laboratory, Office of Research and Development, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. January.
18.4 International Conference on Harmonization of Technical Requirements for the Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use, ICH-Q2A, “Text on Validation of Analytical Procedures,” 60 FR 11260 (March 1995).
18.5 International Conference on Harmonization of Technical Requirements for the Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use, ICH-Q2b, “Validation of Analytical Procedures: Methodology,” 62 FR 27464 (May 1997).
18.6 Keith, L.H., W. Crummer, J. Deegan Jr., R.A. Libby, J.K. Taylor, and G. Wentler. 1983. Principles of Environmental Analysis. American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.
18.7 Maxwell, E.A. 1974. Estimating variances from one or two measurements on each sample. Amer. Statistician 28:96-97.
18.8 Midgett, M.R. 1977. How EPA Validates NSPS Methodology. Environ. Sci.
Technol. 11(7):655-659.
18.9 Mitchell, W.J., and M.R. Midgett. 1976. Means to evaluate performance of stationary source test methods. Environ. Sci.
Technol. 10:85-88.
18.10 Plackett, R.L., and J.P. Burman. 1946. The design of optimum multifactorial experiments. Biometrika, 33:305.
18.11 Taylor, J.K. 1987. Quality Assurance of Chemical Measurements. Lewis Publishers, Inc., pp. 79-81.
18.12 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 1978. Quality Assurance Handbook for Air Pollution Measurement Systems: Volume III. Stationary Source Specific Methods. Publication No. EPA-600/4-77-027b. Office of Research and Development Publications, 26 West St. Clair St., Cincinnati, OH 45268.
18.13 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 1981. A Procedure for Establishing Traceability of Gas Mixtures to Certain National Bureau of Standards Standard Reference Materials. Publication No. EPA-600/7-81-010. Available from the U.S.
EPA, Quality Assurance Division (MD-77), Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.
18.14 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 1991. Protocol for The Field Validation of Emission Concentrations from Stationary Sources. Publication No. 450/4-90-015. Available from the U.S. EPA, Emission Measurement Technical Information Center, Technical Support Division (MD-14), Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.
18.15 Wernimont, G.T., “Use of Statistics to Develop and Evaluate Analytical Methods,” AOAC, 1111 North 19th Street, Suite 210, Arlington, VA 22209, USA, 78-82 (1987).
18.16 Youden, W.J. Statistical techniques for collaborative tests. In: Statistical Manual of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists, Association of Official Analytical Chemists, Washington, DC, 1975, pp. 33-36.
18.17 NIST/SEMATECH (current version), “e-Handbook of Statistical Methods,” available from NIST,
http://www.itl.nist.gov/div898/handbook/.
18.18 Statistical Table,
http://www.math.usask.ca/~szafron/Stats244/f_table_0_05.pdf.

# 19.0 Tables.
Table 301-1—Sampling Procedures
If you are . . .
You must collect . . .
Comparing the candidate test method against a validated method
A total of 24 samples using a quadruplicate sampling system (a total of six sets of replicate samples). In each quadruplicate sample set, you must use the validated test method to collect and analyze half of the samples.
Using isotopic spiking (can only be used with methods capable of measurement of multiple isotopes simultaneously)
A total of 12 samples, all of which are spiked with isotopically-labeled analyte. You may collect the samples either by obtaining six sets of paired samples or three sets of quadruplicate samples.
Using analyte spiking
A total of 24 samples using the quadruplicate sampling system (a total of six sets of replicate samples—two spiked and two unspiked).
Table 301-2—Storage and Sampling Procedures for Stack Test Emissions
If you are . . .
With . . .
Then you must . . .
Using isotopic or analyte spiking procedures
Sample container (bag or canister) or impinger sampling systems that are not subject to dilution or other preparation steps
Analyze six of the samples within 7 days and then analyze the same six samples at the proposed maximum storage duration or 2 weeks after the initial analysis.
Sorbent and impinger sampling systems that require extraction or digestion
Extract or digest six of the samples within 7 days and extract or digest six other samples at the proposed maximum storage duration or 2 weeks after the first extraction or digestion. Analyze an aliquot of the first six extracts (digestates) within 7 days and proposed maximum storage duration or 2 weeks after the initial analysis. This will allow analysis of extract storage impacts.
Sorbent sampling systems that require thermal desorption
Analyze six samples within 7 days. Analyze another set of six samples at the proposed maximum storage time or within 2 weeks of the initial analysis.
Comparing a candidate test method against a validated test method
Sample container (bag or canister) or impinger sampling systems that are not subject to dilution or other preparation steps
Analyze at least six of the candidate test method samples within 7 days and then analyze the same six samples at the proposed maximum storage duration or within 2 weeks of the initial analysis.
Sorbent and impinger sampling systems that require extraction or digestion
Extract or digest six of the candidate test method samples within 7 days and extract or digest six other samples at the proposed maximum storage duration or within 2 weeks of the first extraction or digestion. Analyze an aliquot of the first six extracts (digestates) within 7 days and an aliquot at the proposed maximum storage durations or within 2 weeks of the initial analysis. This will allow analysis of extract storage impacts.
Sorbent systems that require thermal desorption
Analyze six samples within 7 days. Analyze another set of six samples at the proposed maximum storage duration or within 2 weeks of the initial analysis.
Table 301-3—Critical Values of
t
for the Two-Tailed 95 Percent Confidence Limit
1
Degrees of freedom
t
95
1
12.706
2
4.303
3
3.182
4
2.776
5
2.571
6
2.447
7
2.365
8
2.306
9
2.262
10
2.228
11
2.201
12
2.179
13
2.160
14
2.145
15
2.131
16
2.120
17
2.110
18
2.101
19
2.093
20
2.086
1
Adapted from Reference 18.17 in section 18.0.
Table 301-4—Upper Critical Values of the F Distribution for the 95 Percent Confidence Limit
1
Numerator (k
1
) and denominator (k
2
) degrees of freedom
F{F
F
.05
(k
1
,k
2
)}
1,1
161.40
2,2
19.00
3,3
9.28
4,4
6.39
5,5
5.05
6,6
4.28
7,7
3.79
8,8
3.44
9,9
3.18
10,10
2.98
11,11
2.82
12,12
2.69
13,13
2.58
14,14
2.48
15,15
2.40
16,16
2.33
17,17
2.27
18,18
2.22
19,19
2.17
20,20
2.12
1
Adapted from References 18.17 and 18.18 in section 18.0.
Table 301-5—Procedures for Estimating S
o
If the estimated LOD (LOD
1
, expected approximate LOD concentration level) is no more than twice the calculated LOD or an analyte in a sample matrix was collected prior to an analytical measurement, use Procedure I as follows
If the estimated LOD (LOD
1
, expected approximate LOD concentration level) is greater than twice the calculated LOD, use Procedure II as follows.
Procedure I:
Procedure II:
Determine the LOD by calculating a method detection limit (MDL) as described in 40 CFR part 136, appendix B
Prepare two additional standards (LOD
2
and LOD
3
) at concentration levels lower than the standard used in Procedure I (LOD
1
).
Sample and analyze each of these standards (LOD
2
and LOD
3
) at least seven times.
Calculate the standard deviation (S
2
and S
3
) for each concentration level.
Plot the standard deviations of the three test standards (S
1
, S
2
and S
3
) as a function of concentration.
Draw a best-fit straight line through the data points and extrapolate to zero concentration. The standard deviation at zero concentration is S
o
.
Calculate the LOD
0
(referred to as the calculated LOD) as 3 times S
o
.

# Method 303—Determination of Visible Emissions From By-Product Coke Oven Batteries

# Note:
This method is not inclusive with respect to observer certification. Some material is incorporated by reference from other methods in appendix A to 40 CFR part 60. Therefore, to obtain reliable results, persons using this method should have a thorough knowledge of Method 9.

# 1.0 Scope and Application
1.1 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of visible emissions (VE) from the following by-product coke oven battery sources: charging systems during charging; doors, topside port lids, and offtake systems on operating coke ovens; and collecting mains. This method is also applicable for qualifying observers for visually determining the presence of VE. In order for the test method results to be indicative of plant performance, the time of day of the run should vary.

# 2.0 Summary of Method
2.1 A certified observer visually determines the VE from coke oven battery sources. Certification procedures are presented. This method does not require that opacity of emissions be determined or that magnitude be differentiated.

# 3.0 Definitions
3.1
Bench
means the platform structure in front of the oven doors.
3.2
By-product Coke Oven Battery
means a source consisting of a group of ovens connected by common walls, where coal undergoes destructive distillation under positive pressure to produce coke and coke oven gas, from which by-products are recovered.
3.3
Charge or charging period
means the period of time that commences when coal begins to flow into an oven through a topside port and ends when the last charging port is recapped.
3.4
Charging system
means an apparatus used to charge coal to a coke oven (
e.g.,
a larry car for wet coal charging systems).
3.5
Coke oven door
means each end enclosure on the push side and the coking side of an oven. The chuck, or leveler-bar, door is considered part of the push side door. The coke oven door area includes the entire area on the vertical face of a coke oven between the bench and the top of the battery between two adjacent buck stays.
3.6
Coke side
means the side of a battery from which the coke is discharged from ovens at the end of the coking cycle.
3.7
Collecting
main means any apparatus that is connected to one or more offtake systems and that provides a passage for conveying gases under positive pressure from the by-product coke oven battery to the by-product recovery system.
3.8
Consecutive charges
means charges observed successively, excluding any charge during which the observer's view of the charging system or topside ports is obscured.
3.9
Damper-off
means to close off the gas passage between the coke oven and the collecting main, with no flow of raw coke oven gas from the collecting main into the oven or into the oven's offtake system(s).
3.10
Decarbonization period
means the period of time for combusting oven carbon that commences when the oven lids are removed from an empty oven or when standpipe caps of an oven are opened. The period ends with the initiation of the next charging period for that oven.
3.11
Larry car
means an apparatus used to charge coal to a coke oven with a wet coal charging system.
3.12
Log average
means logarithmic average as calculated in Section 12.4.
3.13
Offtake system
means any individual oven apparatus that is stationary and provides a passage for gases from an oven to a coke oven battery collecting main or to another oven. Offtake system components include the standpipe and standpipe caps, goosenecks, stationary jumper pipes, mini-
standpipes, and standpipe and gooseneck connections.
3.14
Operating oven
means any oven not out of operation for rebuild or maintenance work extensive enough to require the oven to be skipped in the charging sequence.
3.15
Oven
means a chamber in the coke oven battery in which coal undergoes destructive distillation to produce coke.
3.16
Push side
means the side of the battery from which the coke is pushed from ovens at the end of the coking cycle.
3.17
Run
means the observation of visible emissions from topside port lids, offtake systems, coke oven doors, or the charging of a single oven in accordance with this method.
3.18
Shed
means an enclosure that covers the side of the coke oven battery, captures emissions from pushing operations and from leaking coke oven doors on the coke side or push side of the coke oven battery, and routes the emissions to a control device or system.
3.19
Standpipe cap
means An apparatus used to cover the opening in the gooseneck of an offtake system.
3.20
Topside port lid
means a cover, removed during charging or decarbonizing, that is placed over the opening through which coal can be charged into the oven of a by-product coke oven battery.
3.21
Traverse time
means accumulated time for a traverse as measured by a stopwatch. Traverse time includes time to stop and write down oven numbers but excludes time waiting for obstructions of view to clear or for time to walk around obstacles.
3.22
Visible Emissions or VE
means any emission seen by the unaided (except for corrective lenses) eye, excluding steam or condensing water.

# 4.0 Interferences
[Reserved]

# 5.0 Safety
5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.
5.2 Safety Training. Because coke oven batteries have hazardous environments, the training materials and the field training (section 10.0) shall cover the precautions required to address health and safety hazards.

# 6.0 Equipment and Supplies
[Reserved]

# 7.0 Reagents and Standards
[Reserved]

# 8.0 Sample Collection, Preservation, Transport, and Storage
[Reserved]

# 9.0 Quality Control
[Reserved]

# 10.0 Calibration and Standardization
Observer certification and training requirements are as follows:
10.1 Certification Procedures. This method requires only the determination of whether VE occur and does not require the determination of opacity levels; therefore, observer certification according to Method 9 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter is not required to obtain certification under this method. However, in order to receive Method 303 observer certification, the first-time observer (trainee) shall have attended the lecture portion of the Method 9 certification course. In addition, the trainee shall successfully complete the Method 303 training course, satisfy the field observation requirement, and demonstrate adequate performance and sufficient knowledge of Method 303. The Method 303 training provider and course shall be approved by the Administrator and shall consist of classroom instruction, field training, and a proficiency test. In order to apply for approval as a Method 303 training provider, an applicant must submit their credentials and the details of their Method 303 training course to Group Leader, Measurement Technology Group (E143-02), Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Those details should include, at a minimum:
(a) A detailed list of the provider's credentials.
(b) An outline of the classroom and the field portions of the class.
(c) Copies of the written training and lecture materials, to include:
(1) The classroom audio-visual presentation(s).
(2) A classroom course manual with instructional text, practice questions and problems for each of the elements of the Method 303 inspection (
i.e.,
charging, doors, lids and offtakes, and collecting mains). A copy of Method 303 and any related guidance documents should be included as appendices.
(3) A copy of the Method 303 demonstration video, if not using the one available at:
http://www3.epa.gov/ttn/emc/methods/method303trainingvideo.mp4.
(4) Multiple-choice certification tests, with questions sufficient to demonstrate knowledge of the method, as follows: One (1) Initial certification test and three (3) third-year recertification tests (the questions on any one
recertification test must be at least 25 percent different from those on the other recertification tests).
(5) A field certification checklist and inspection forms for each of the elements of the Method 303 inspection (
i.e.,
charging, doors, lids and offtakes, and collecting mains).
(6) The criteria used to determine proficiency.
(7) The panel members to be utilized (see Section 10.1.3) along with their qualifications.
(8) An example certificate of successful course completion.
10.1.1 A trainee must verify completion of at least 12 hours of field observation prior to attending the Method 303 certification course. Trainees shall observe the operation of a coke oven battery as it pertains to Method 303, including topside operations, and shall also practice conducting Method 303 or similar methods. During the field observations, trainees unfamiliar with coke battery operations shall receive instruction from an experienced coke oven observer who is familiar with Method 303 or similar methods and with the operation of coke batteries.
10.1.2 The classroom instruction shall familiarize the trainees with Method 303 through lecture, written training materials, and a Method 303 demonstration video. Successful completion of the classroom portion of the Method 303 training course shall be demonstrated by a perfect score on the initial certification test. Those attending the course for third-year recertification must complete one of the recertification tests selected at random.
10.1.3 All trainees must demonstrate proficiency in the application of Method 303 to a panel of three certified Method 303 observers, including an ability to differentiate coke oven emissions from condensing water vapor and smoldering coal. The composition of the panel must be approved by the Administrator as part of the training course approval process. The panel members will be EPA, state or local agency personnel, or industry contractors listed in 59 FR 11960 (March 15, 1994) or qualified as part of the training provider approval process of section 10.1 of this method.
Each panel member shall have at least 120 days experience in reading visible emissions from coke ovens. The visible emissions inspections that will satisfy the experience requirement must be inspections of coke oven battery fugitive emissions from the emission points subject to emission standards under subpart L of this part (
i.e.,
coke oven doors, topside port lids, offtake system(s), and charging operations), using either Method 303 or predecessor state or local test methods. A “day's experience” for a particular inspection is a day on which one complete inspection was performed for that emission point under Method 303 or a predecessor state or local method. A “day's experience” does not mean 8 or 10 hours performing inspections, or any particular time expressed in minutes or hours that may have been spent performing them. Thus, it would be possible for an individual to qualify as a Method 303 panel member for some emission points, but not others (
e.g.,
an individual might satisfy the experience requirement for coke oven doors, but not topside port lids). Until November 15, 1994, the EPA may waive the certification requirement (but not the experience requirement) for panel members. The composition of the panel shall be approved by the EPA.
The panel shall observe the trainee in a series of training runs and a series of certification runs. There shall be a minimum of 1 training run for doors, topside port lids, and offtake systems, and a minimum of 5 training runs (
i.e.,
5 charges) for charging. During training runs, the panel can advise the trainee on proper procedures. There shall be a minimum of 3 certification runs for doors, topside port lids, and offtake systems, and a minimum of 15 certification runs for charging (
i.e.,
15 charges). The certification runs shall be unassisted. Following the certification test runs, the panel shall approve or disapprove certification based on the trainee's performance during the certification runs. To obtain certification, the trainee shall demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the panel, a high degree of proficiency in performing Method 303. To aid in evaluating the trainee's performance, a checklist, approved by the EPA, will be used by the panel members.
10.1.4 Those successfully completing the initial certification or third-year recertification requirements shall receive a certificate showing certification as a Method 303 observer and the beginning and ending dates of the certification period.
10.1.5 The training provider will submit to the EPA or its designee the following information for each trainee successfully completing initial certification or third-year recertification training: Name, employer, address, telephone, cell and/or fax numbers, email address, beginning and ending dates of certification, and whether training was for 3-year certification or 1-year recertification. This information must be submitted within 30 days of the course completion.
10.1.6 The training provider will maintain the following records, to be made available to EPA or its designee on request (within 30 days of a request):
(a) A file for each Method 303 observer containing the signed certification checklists, certification forms and test results for their initial certification, and any subsequent third-year recertifications. Initial certification records must also include documentation showing successful completion of the
training prerequisites. Testing results from any interim recertifications must also be included, along with any relevant communications.
(b) A searchable master electronic database of all persons for whom initial certification, third-year recertification or interim recertification. Information contained therein must include: The observer's name, employer, address, telephone, cell and fax numbers and email address, along with the beginning and ending dates for each successfully completed initial, third-year and interim recertification.
10.1.7 Failure by the training provider to submit example training course materials and/or requested training records to the Administrator may result in suspension of the approval of the provider and course.
10.2 Observer Certification/Recertification. The coke oven observer certification is valid for 1 year. The observer shall recertify annually by reviewing the training material, viewing the training video and answering all of the questions on the recertification test correctly. Every 3 years, an observer shall be required to pass the proficiency test in section 10.1.3 in order to be certified. The years between proficiency tests are referred to as interim years.
10.3 The EPA (or applicable enforcement agency) shall maintain records reflecting a certified observer's successful completion of the proficiency test, which shall include the completed proficiency test checklists for the certification runs.
10.4 An owner or operator of a coke oven battery subject to subpart L of this part may observe a training and certification program under this section.

# 11.0 Procedure
11.1 Procedure for Determining VE from Charging Systems During Charging.
11.1.1 Number of Oven Charges. Refer to § 63.309(c)(1) of this part for the number of oven charges to observe. The observer shall observe consecutive charges. Charges that are nonconsecutive can only be observed when necessary to replace observations terminated prior to the completion of a charge because of visual interferences. (See Section 11.1.5).
11.1.2 Data Records. Record all the information requested at the top of the charging system inspection sheet (Figure 303-1). For each charge, record the identification number of the oven being charged, the approximate beginning time of the charge, and the identification of the larry car used for the charge.
11.1.3 Observer Position. Stand in an area or move to positions on the topside of the coke oven battery with an unobstructed view of the entire charging system. For wet coal charging systems or non-pipeline coal charging systems, the observer should have an unobstructed view of the emission points of the charging system, including larry car hoppers, drop sleeves, and the topside ports of the oven being charged. Some charging systems are configured so that all emission points can only be seen from a distance of five ovens. For other batteries, distances of 8 to 12 ovens are adequate.
11.1.4 Observation. The charging period begins when coal begins to flow into the oven and ends when the last charging port is recapped. During the charging period, observe all of the potential sources of VE from the entire charging system. For wet coal charging systems or non-pipeline coal charging systems, sources of VE typically include the larry car hoppers, drop sleeves, slide gates, and topside ports on the oven being charged. Any VE from an open standpipe cap on the oven being charged is included as charging VE.
11.1.4.1 Using an accumulative-type stopwatch with unit divisions of at least 0.5 seconds, determine the total time VE are observed as follows. Upon observing any VE emerging from any part of the charging system, start the stopwatch. Stop the watch when VE are no longer observed emerging, and restart the watch when VE reemerges.
11.1.4.2 When VE occur simultaneously from several points during a charge, consider the sources as one. Time overlapping VE as continuous VE. Time single puffs of VE only for the time it takes for the puff to emerge from the charging system. Continue to time VE in this manner for the entire charging period. Record the accumulated time to the nearest 0.5 second under “Visible emissions, seconds” on Figure 303-1.
11.1.5 Visual Interference. If fugitive VE from other sources at the coke oven battery site (
e.g.,
door leaks or condensing water vapor from the coke oven wharf) prevent a clear view of the charging system during a charge, stop the stopwatch and make an appropriate notation under “Comments” on Figure 303-1. Label the observation an observation of an incomplete charge, and observe another charge to fulfill the requirements of Section 11.1.1.
11.1.6 VE Exemptions. Do not time the following VE:
11.1.6.1 The VE from burning or smoldering coal spilled on top of the oven, topside port lid, or larry car surfaces;

# Note:
The VE from smoldering coal are generally white or gray. These VE generally have a plume of less than 1 meter long. If the observer cannot safely and with reasonable confidence determine that VE are from charging, do not count them as charging emissions.
11.1.6.2 The VE from the coke oven doors or from the leveler bar; or
11.1.6.3 The VE that drift from the top of a larry car hopper if the emissions had already been timed as VE from the drop sleeve.

# Note:
When the slide gate on a larry car hopper closes after the coal has been added to the oven, the seal may not be airtight. On occasions, a puff of smoke observed at the drop sleeves is forced past the slide gate up into the larry car hopper and may drift from the top; time these VE either at the drop sleeves or the hopper. If the larry car hopper does not have a slide gate or the slide gate is left open or partially closed, VE may quickly pass through the larry car hopper without being observed at the drop sleeves and will appear as a strong surge of smoke; time these as charging VE.
11.1.7 Total Time Record. Record the total time that VE were observed for each charging operation in the appropriate column on the charging system inspection sheet.
11.1.8 Determination of Validity of a Set of Observations. Five charging observations (runs) obtained in accordance with this method shall be considered a valid set of observations for that day. No observation of an incomplete charge shall be included in a daily set of observations that is lower than the lowest reading for a complete charge. If both complete and incomplete charges have been observed, the daily set of observations shall include the five highest values observed. Four or three charging observations (runs) obtained in accordance with this method shall be considered a valid set of charging observations only where it is not possible to obtain five charging observations, because visual interferences (see Section 11.1.5) or inclement weather prevent a clear view of the charging system during charging. However, observations from three or four charges that satisfy these requirements shall not be considered a valid set of charging observations if use of such set of observations in a calculation under Section 12.4 would cause the value of A to be less than 145.
11.1.9 Log Average. For each day on which a valid daily set of observations is obtained, calculate the daily 30-day rolling log average of seconds of visible emissions from the charging operation for each battery using these data and the 29 previous valid daily sets of observations, in accordance with Section 12.4.
11.2. Procedure for Determining VE from Coke Oven Door Areas. The intent of this procedure is to determine VE from coke oven door areas by carefully observing the door area from a standard distance while walking at a normal pace.
11.2.1 Number of Runs. Refer to § 63.309(c)(1) of this part for the appropriate number of runs.
11.2.2 Battery Traverse. To conduct a battery traverse, walk the length of the battery on the outside of the pusher machine and quench car tracks at a steady, normal walking pace, pausing to make appropriate entries on the door area inspection sheet (Figure 303-2). A single test run consists of two timed traverses, one for the coke side and one for the push side. The walking pace shall be such that the duration of the traverse does not exceed an average of 4 seconds per oven door, excluding time spent moving around stationary obstructions or waiting for other obstructions to move from positions blocking the view of a series of doors. Extra time is allowed for each leak (a maximum of 10 additional seconds for each leaking door) for the observer to make the proper notation. A walking pace of 3 seconds per oven door has been found to be typical. Record the actual traverse time with a stopwatch.
11.2.2.1 Include in the traverse time only the time spent observing the doors and recording door leaks. To measure actual traverse time, use an accumulative-type stopwatch with unit divisions of 0.5 seconds or less. Exclude interruptions to the traverse and time required for the observer to move to positions where the view of the battery is unobstructed, or for obstructions, such as the door machine, to move from positions blocking the view of a series of doors.
11.2.2.2 Various situations may arise that will prevent the observer from viewing a door or a series of doors. Prior to the door inspection, the owner or operator may elect to temporarily suspend charging operations for the duration of the inspection, so that all of the doors can be viewed by the observer. The observer has two options for dealing with obstructions to view: (a) Stop the stopwatch and wait for the equipment to move or the fugitive emissions to dissipate before completing the traverse; or (b) stop the stopwatch, skip the affected ovens, and move to an unobstructed position to continue the traverse. Restart the stopwatch and continue the traverse. After the completion of the traverse, if the equipment has moved or the fugitive emissions have dissipated, inspect the affected doors. If the equipment is still preventing the observer from viewing the doors, then the affected doors may be counted as not observed. If option (b) is used because of doors blocked by machines during charging operations, then, of the affected doors, exclude the door from the most recently charged oven from the inspection. Record the oven numbers and make an appropriate notation under “Comments” on the door area inspection sheet (Figure 303-2).
11.2.2.3 When batteries have sheds to control emissions, conduct the inspection from outside the shed unless the doors cannot be adequately viewed. In this case, conduct the inspection from the bench. Be aware of special safety considerations pertinent to walking on the bench and follow the instructions
of company personnel on the required equipment and procedures. If possible, conduct the bench traverse whenever the bench is clear of the door machine and hot coke guide.
11.2.3 Observations. Record all the information requested at the top of the door area inspection sheet (Figure 303-2), including the number of non-operating ovens. Record the clock time at the start of the traverse on each side of the battery. Record which side is being inspected (
i.e.,
coke side or push side). Other information may be recorded at the discretion of the observer, such as the location of the leak (
e.g.,
top of the door, chuck door, etc.), the reason for any interruption of the traverse, or the position of the sun relative to the battery and sky conditions (
e.g.,
overcast, partly sunny, etc.).
11.2.3.1 Begin the test run by starting the stopwatch and traversing either the coke side or the push side of the battery. After completing one side, stop the watch. Complete this procedure on the other side. If inspecting more than one battery, the observer may view the push sides and the coke sides sequentially.
11.2.3.2 During the traverse, look around the entire perimeter of each oven door. The door is considered leaking if VE are detected in the coke oven door area. The coke oven door area includes the entire area on the vertical face of a coke oven between the bench and the top of the battery between two adjacent buck stays (
e.g.,
the oven door, chuck door, between the masonry brick, buck stay or jamb, or other sources). Record the oven number and make the appropriate notation on the door area inspection sheet (Figure 303-2).

# Note:
Multiple VE from the same door area (
e.g.,
VE from both the chuck door and the push side door) are counted as only one emitting door, not as multiple emitting doors.
11.2.3.3 Do not record the following sources as door area VE:
11.2.3.3.1 VE from ovens with doors removed. Record the oven number and make an appropriate notation under “Comments;”
11.2.3.3.2 VE from ovens taken out of service. The owner or operator shall notify the observer as to which ovens are out of service. Record the oven number and make an appropriate notation under “Comments;” or
11.2.3.3.3 VE from hot coke that has been spilled on the bench as a result of pushing.
11.2.4 Criteria for Acceptance. After completing the run, calculate the maximum time allowed to observe the ovens using the equation in Section 12.2. If the total traverse time exceeds T, void the run, and conduct another run to satisfy the requirements of § 63.309(c)(1) of this part.
11.2.5 Percent Leaking Doors. For each day on which a valid observation is obtained, calculate the daily 30-day rolling average for each battery using these data and the 29 previous valid daily observations, in accordance with Section 12.5.
11.3 Procedure for Determining VE from Topside Port Lids and Offtake Systems.
11.3.1 Number of Runs. Refer to § 63.309(c)(1) of this part for the number of runs to be conducted. Simultaneous runs or separate runs for the topside port lids and offtake systems may be conducted.
11.3.2 Battery Traverse. To conduct a topside traverse of the battery, walk the length of the battery at a steady, normal walking pace, pausing only to make appropriate entries on the topside inspection sheet (Figure 303-3). The walking pace shall not exceed an average rate of 4 seconds per oven, excluding time spent moving around stationary obstructions or waiting for other obstructions to move from positions blocking the view. Extra time is allowed for each leak for the observer to make the proper notation. A walking pace of 3 seconds per oven is typical. Record the actual traverse time with a stopwatch.
11.3.3 Topside Port Lid Observations. To observe lids of the ovens involved in the charging operation, the observer shall wait to view the lids until approximately 5 minutes after the completion of the charge. Record all the information requested on the topside inspection sheet (Figure 303-3). Record the clock time when traverses begin and end. If the observer's view is obstructed during the traverse (
e.g.,
steam from the coke wharf, larry car, etc.), follow the guidelines given in Section 11.2.2.2.
11.3.3.1 To perform a test run, conduct a single traverse on the topside of the battery. The observer shall walk near the center of the battery but may deviate from this path to avoid safety hazards (such as open or closed charging ports, luting buckets, lid removal bars, and topside port lids that have been removed) and any other obstacles. Upon noting VE from the topside port lid(s) of an oven, record the oven number and port number, then resume the traverse. If any oven is dampered-off from the collecting main for decarbonization, note this under “Comments” for that particular oven.

# Note:
Count the number of topside ports, not the number of points, exhibiting VE,
i.e.,
if a topside port has several points of VE, count this as one port exhibiting VE.
11.3.3.2 Do not count the following as topside port lid VE:
11.3.3.2.1 VE from between the brickwork and oven lid casing or VE from cracks in the oven brickwork. Note these VE under “Comments;”
11.3.3.2.2 VE from topside ports involved in a charging operation. Record the oven number, and make an appropriate notation (
e.g.,
not observed because ports open for charging) under “Comments;”
11.3.3.2.3 Topside ports having maintenance work done. Record the oven number and make an appropriate notation under “Comments;” or
11.3.3.2.4 Condensing water from wet-sealing material. Ports with only visible condensing water from wet-sealing material are counted as observed but not as having VE.
11.3.3.2.5 Visible emissions from the flue inspection ports and caps.
11.3.4 Offtake Systems Observations. To perform a test run, traverse the battery as in Section 11.3.3.1. Look ahead and back two to four ovens to get a clear view of the entire offtake system for each oven. Consider visible emissions from the following points as offtake system VE: (a) the flange between the gooseneck and collecting main (“saddle”), (b) the junction point of the standpipe and oven (“standpipe base”), (c) the other parts of the offtake system (
e.g.,
the standpipe cap), and (d) the junction points with ovens and flanges of jumper pipes.
11.3.4.1 Do not stray from the traverse line in order to get a “closer look” at any part of the offtake system unless it is to distinguish leaks from interferences from other sources or to avoid obstacles.
11.3.4.2 If the centerline does not provide a clear view of the entire offtake system for each oven (
e.g.,
when standpipes are longer than 15 feet), the observer may conduct the traverse farther from (rather than closer to) the offtake systems.
11.3.4.3 Upon noting a leak from an offtake system during a traverse, record the oven number. Resume the traverse. If the oven is dampered-off from the collecting main for decarbonization and VE are observed, note this under “Comments” for that particular oven.
11.3.4.4 If any part or parts of an offtake system have VE, count it as one emitting offtake system. Each stationary jumper pipe is considered a single offtake system.
11.3.4.5 Do not count standpipe caps open for a decarbonization period or standpipes of an oven being charged as source of offtake system VE. Record the oven number and write “Not observed” and the reason (
i.e.,
decarb or charging) under “Comments.”

# Note:
VE from open standpipes of an oven being charged count as charging emissions. All VE from closed standpipe caps count as offtake leaks.
11.3.5 Criteria for Acceptance. After completing the run (allow 2 traverses for batteries with double mains), calculate the maximum time allowed to observe the topside port lids and/or offtake systems using the equation in Section 12.3. If the total traverse time exceeds T, void the run and conduct another run to satisfy the requirements of § 63.309(c)(1) of this part.
11.3.6 In determining the percent leaking topside port lids and percent leaking offtake systems, do not include topside port lids or offtake systems with VE from the following ovens:
11.3.6.1 Empty ovens, including ovens undergoing maintenance, which are properly dampered off from the main.
11.3.6.2 Ovens being charged or being pushed.
11.3.6.3 Up to 3 full ovens that have been dampered off from the main prior to pushing.
11.3.6.4 Up to 3 additional full ovens in the pushing sequence that have been dampered off from the main for offtake system cleaning, for decarbonization, for safety reasons, or when a charging/pushing schedule involves widely separated ovens (e.g., a Marquard system); or that have been dampered off from the main for maintenance near the end of the coking cycle. Examples of reasons that ovens are dampered off for safety reasons are to avoid exposing workers in areas with insufficient clearance between standpipes and the larry car, or in areas where workers could be exposed to flames or hot gases from open standpipes, and to avoid the potential for removing a door on an oven that is not dampered off from the main.
11.3.7 Percent Leaking Topside Port Lids and Offtake Systems. For each day on which a valid observation is obtained, calculate the daily 30-day rolling average for each battery using these data and the 29 previous valid daily observations, in accordance with Sections 12.6 and 12.7.
11.4 Procedure for Determining VE from Collecting Mains.
11.4.1 Traverse. To perform a test run, traverse both the collecting main catwalk and the battery topside along the side closest to the collecting main. If the battery has a double main, conduct two sets of traverses for each run, i.e., one set for each main.
11.4.2 Data Recording. Upon noting VE from any portion of a collection main, identify the source and approximate location of the source of VE and record the time under “Collecting main” on Figure 303-3; then resume the traverse.
11.4.3 Collecting Main Pressure Check. After the completion of the door traverse, the topside port lids, and offtake systems, compare the collecting main pressure during the inspection to the collecting main pressure during the previous 8 to 24 hours. Record the following: (a) the pressure during inspection, (b) presence of pressure deviation from normal operations, and (c) the explanation for any pressure deviation from normal operations, if any, offered by the operators. The owner or operator of the coke battery shall maintain the pressure recording equipment and conduct the quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) necessary to ensure reliable pressure readings and shall keep the QA/QC records for at least 6 months. The observer may periodically check the QA/QC records to determine their
completeness. The owner or operator shall provide access to the records within 1 hour of an observer's request.

# 12.0 Data Analysis and Calculations
12.1 Nomenclature.
A = 150 or the number of valid observations (runs). The value of A shall not be less than 145, except for purposes of determinations under § 63.306(c) (work practice plan implementation) or § 63.306(d) (work practice plan revisions) of this part. No set of observations shall be considered valid for such a recalculation that otherwise would not be considered a valid set of observations for a calculation under this paragraph.
D
i
= Number of doors on non-operating ovens.
D
no
= Number of doors not observed.
D
ob
= Total number of doors observed on operating ovens.
D
t
= Total number of oven doors on the battery.
e = 2.72
J = Number of stationary jumper pipes.
L = Number of doors with VE.
L
b
= Yard-equivalent reading.
L
s
= Number of doors with VE observed from the bench under sheds.
L
y
= Number of doors with VE observed from the yard.
L
y
= Number of doors with VE observed from the yard on the push side.
ln = Natural logarithm.
N = Total number of ovens in the battery.
N
i
= Total number of inoperable ovens.
P
NO
= Number of ports not observed.
P
ovn
= Number of ports per oven.
P
VE
= Number of topside port lids with VE.
PLD = Percent leaking coke oven doors for the test run.
PLL = Percent leaking topside port lids for the run.
PLO = Percent leaking offtake systems.
T = Total time allowed for traverse, seconds.
T
ovn
= Number of offtake systems (excluding jumper pipes) per oven.
T
NO
= Number of offtake systems not observed.
T
VE
= Number of offtake systems with VE.
X
i
= Seconds of VE during the ith charge.
Z = Number of topside port lids or offtake systems with VE.
12.2 Criteria for Acceptance for VE Determinations from Coke Oven Door Areas. After completing the run, calculate the maximum time allowed to observe the ovens using the following equation:
er17oc00.535
12.3 Criteria for Acceptance for VE Determinations from Topside Port Lids and Offtake Systems. After completing the run (allow 2 traverses for batteries with double mains), calculate the maximum time allowed to observe the topside port lids and/or offtake systems by the following equation:
er17oc00.536
12.4 Average Duration of VE from Charging Operations. Use Equation 303-3 to calculate the daily 30-day rolling log average of seconds of visible emissions from the charging operation for each battery using these current day's observations and the 29 previous valid daily sets of observations.
ER14NO18.063
12.5 Percent Leaking Doors (PLD). Determine the total number of doors for which observations were made on the coke oven battery as follows:
er17oc00.538
12.5.1 For each test run (one run includes both the coke side and the push side traverses), sum the number of doors with door area VE. For batteries subject to an approved alternative standard under § 63.305 of this part, calculate the push side and the coke side PLD separately.
12.5.2 Calculate percent leaking doors by using Equation 303-5:
er17oc00.539
12.5.3 When traverses are conducted from the bench under sheds, calculate the coke side and the push side separately. Use Equation 303-6 to calculate a yard-equivalent reading:
er17oc00.540
If L
b
is less than zero, use zero for L
b
in Equation 303-7 in the calculation of PLD.
12.5.3.1 Use Equation 303-7 to calculate PLD:
er17oc00.541
Round off PLD to the nearest hundredth of 1 percent and record as the percent leaking coke oven doors for the run.
12.5.3.2 Average Percent Leaking Doors. Use Equation 303-8 to calculate the daily 30-day rolling average percent leaking doors for each battery using these current day's observations and the 29 previous valid daily sets of observations.
er17oc00.542
12.6 Topside Port Lids. Determine the percent leaking topside port lids for each run as follows:
er17oc00.543
12.6.1 Round off this percentage to the nearest hundredth of 1 percent and record this percentage as the percent leaking topside port lids for the run.
12.6.2 Average Percent Leaking Topside Port Lids. Use Equation 303-10 to calculate the daily 30-day rolling average percent leaking topside port lids for each battery using these current day's observations and the 29 previous valid daily sets of observations.
er17oc00.544
12.7 Offtake Systems. Determine the percent leaking offtake systems for the run as follows:
er17oc00.545
12.7.1 Round off this percentage to the nearest hundredth of 1 percent and record this percentage as the percent leaking offtake systems for the run.
12.7.2 Average Percent Leaking Offtake Systems. Use Equation 303-12 to calculate the daily 30-day rolling average percent leaking offtake systems for each battery using these current day's observations and the 29 previous valid daily sets of observations.
ER17OC00.546

# 13.0 Method Performance
[Reserved]

# 14.0 Pollution Prevention
[Reserved]

# 15.0 Waste Management
[Reserved]

# 16.0 References.
1. Missan, R., and A. Stein. Guidelines for Evaluation of Visible Emissions Certification, Field Procedures, Legal Aspects, and Background Material. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. EPA Publication No. EPA-340/1-75-007. April 1975.
2. Wohlschlegel, P., and D. E. Wagoner. Guideline for Development of a Quality Assurance Program: Volume IX—Visual Determination of Opacity Emission from Stationary Sources. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. EPA Publication No. EPA-650/4-74-005i. November 1975.
3. U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Code of Federal Regulations. Title 29, Chapter XVII, Section 1910.1029(g). Washington, D.C. Government Printing Office. July 1, 1990.
4. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants; Coke Oven Emissions from Wet-Coal Charged By-Product Coke Oven Batteries; Proposed Rule and Notice of Public Hearing. Washington, D.C.
Federal Register.
Vol. 52, No. 78 (13586). April 23, 1987.

# 17.0 Tables, Diagrams, Flowcharts, and Validation Data
Company name:
Battery no.: ______ Date: ______ Run no.: ______
City, State:
Observer name:
Company representative(s):
Charge No.
Oven
No.
Clock time
Visible
emissions,
seconds
Comments

# Figure 303-1. Charging System Inspection
Company name:
Battery no.:
Date:
City, State:
Total no. of ovens in battery:
Observer name:
Certification expiration date:
Inoperable ovens:
Company representative(s):
Traverse time CS:
Traverse time PS:
Valid run (Y or N):
Time traverse started/completed
PS/CS
Door No.
Comments
(No. of blocked doors, interruptions to traverse, etc.)

# Figure 303-2. Door Area Inspection.
Company name:
Battery no.:
Date:
City, State:
Total no. of ovens in battery:
Observer name:
Certification expiration date:
Inoperable ovens:
Company representative(s):
Total no. of lids:
Total no. of offtakes:
Total no. of jumper pipes:
Ovens not observed:
Total traverse time:
Valid run (Y or N):
Time traverse started/completed
Type of Inspection
(lids, offtakes, collecting main)
Location of VE
(Oven #/Port #)
Comments

# Figure 303-3. Topside Inspection

# Method 303A—Determination of Visible Emissions From Nonrecovery Coke Oven Batteries

# Note:
This method does not include all of the specifications pertaining to observer certification. Some material is incorporated by reference from other methods in this part and in appendix A to 40 CFR Part 60. Therefore, to obtain reliable results, persons using this method should have a thorough knowledge of Method 9 and Method 303.

# 1.0 Scope and Application
1.1 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of visible emissions (VE) from leaking doors at nonrecovery coke oven batteries.

# 2.0 Summary of Method
2.1 A certified observer visually determines the VE from coke oven battery sources while walking at a normal pace. This method does not require that opacity of emissions be determined or that magnitude be differentiated.

# 3.0 Definitions
3.1
Bench
means the platform structure in front of the oven doors.
3.2
Coke oven door
means each end enclosure on the push side and the coking side of an oven.
3.3
Coke side
means the side of a battery from which the coke is discharged from ovens at the end of the coking cycle.
3.4
Nonrecovery coke oven battery
means a source consisting of a group of ovens connected by common walls and operated as a unit, where coal undergoes destructive distillation under negative pressure to produce coke, and which is designed for the combustion of coke oven gas from which by-products are not recovered.
3.5
Operating oven
means any oven not out of operation for rebuild or maintenance work extensive enough to require the oven to be skipped in the charging sequence.
3.6
Oven
means a chamber in the coke oven battery in which coal undergoes destructive distillation to produce coke.
3.7
Push side
means the side of the battery from which the coke is pushed from ovens at the end of the coking cycle.
3.8
Run
means the observation of visible emissions from coke oven doors in accordance with this method.
3.9
Shed
means an enclosure that covers the side of the coke oven battery, captures emissions from pushing operations and from leaking coke oven doors on the coke side or push side of the coke oven battery, and routes the emissions to a control device or system.
3.10
Traverse time
means accumulated time for a traverse as measured by a stopwatch. Traverse time includes time to stop and write down oven numbers but excludes time waiting for obstructions of view to clear or for time to walk around obstacles.
3.11
Visible Emissions or VE
means any emission seen by the unaided (except for corrective lenses) eye, excluding steam or condensing water.

# 4.0 Interferences
[Reserved]

# 5.0 Safety
5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.
5.2 Safety Training. Because coke oven batteries have hazardous environments, the training materials and the field training (Section 10.0) shall cover the precautions required by the company to address health and safety hazards. Special emphasis shall be given to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations pertaining to exposure of coke oven workers (see Reference 3 in Section 16.0). In general, the regulation requires that special fire-retardant clothing and respirators be worn in certain restricted areas of the coke oven battery. The OSHA regulation also prohibits certain activities, such as chewing gum, smoking, and eating in these areas.

# 6.0 Equipment and Supplies
[Reserved]

# 7.0 Reagents and Standards
[Reserved]

# 8.0 Sample Collection, Preservation, Transport, and Storage
[Reserved]

# 9.0 Quality Control
[Reserved]

# 10.0 Calibration and Standardization.
10.1 Training. This method requires only the determination of whether VE occur and does not require the determination of opacity levels; therefore, observer certification according to Method 9 in Appendix A to Part 60 is not required. However, the first-time observer (trainee) shall have attended the lecture portion of the Method 9 certification course. Furthermore, before conducting any VE observations, an observer shall become familiar with nonrecovery coke oven battery operations and with this test method by observing for a minimum of 4 hours the operation of a nonrecovery coke oven battery in the presence of personnel experienced in performing Method 303 assessments.

# 11.0 Procedure
The intent of this procedure is to determine VE from coke oven door areas by carefully observing the door area while walking at a normal pace.
11.1 Number of Runs. Refer to § 63.309(c)(1) of this part for the appropriate number of runs.
11.2 Battery Traverse. To conduct a battery traverse, walk the length of the battery on the outside of the pusher machine and quench car tracks at a steady, normal walking pace, pausing to make appropriate entries on the door area inspection sheet (Figure 303A-1). The walking pace shall be such that the duration of the traverse does not exceed an average of 4 seconds per oven door, excluding time spent moving around stationary obstructions or waiting for other obstructions to move from positions blocking the view of a series of doors. Extra time is allowed for each leak (a maximum of 10 additional seconds for each leaking door) for the observer to make the proper notation. A walking pace of 3 seconds per oven door has been found to be typical. Record the actual traverse time with a stopwatch. A single test run consists of two timed traverses, one for the coke side and one for the push side.
11.2.1 Various situations may arise that will prevent the observer from viewing a door or a series of doors. The observer has two options for dealing with obstructions to view: (a) Wait for the equipment to move or the fugitive emissions to dissipate before completing the traverse; or (b) skip the affected ovens and move to an unobstructed position to continue the traverse. Continue the traverse. After the completion of the traverse, if the equipment has moved or the fugitive emissions have dissipated, complete the traverse by inspecting the affected doors. Record the oven numbers and make an appropriate notation under “Comments” on the door area inspection sheet (Figure 303A-1).

# Note:
Extra time incurred for handling obstructions is not counted in the traverse time.
11.2.2 When batteries have sheds to control pushing emissions, conduct the inspection from outside the shed, if the shed allows such observations, or from the bench. Be aware of special safety considerations pertinent to walking on the bench and follow the instructions of company personnel on the required equipment and operations procedures. If possible, conduct the bench traverse whenever the bench is clear of the door machine and hot coke guide.
11.3 Observations. Record all the information requested at the top of the door area inspection sheet (Figure 303A-1), including the number of non-operating ovens. Record which side is being inspected,
i.e.,
coke side or push side. Other information may be recorded at the discretion of the observer, such as the location of the leak (
e.g.,
top of the door), the reason for any interruption of the traverse, or the position of the sun relative to the battery and sky conditions (
e.g.,
overcast, partly sunny, etc.).
11.3.1 Begin the test run by traversing either the coke side or the push side of the battery. After completing one side, traverse the other side.
11.3.2 During the traverse, look around the entire perimeter of each oven door. The door is considered leaking if VE are detected in the coke oven door area. The coke oven door area includes the entire area on the vertical face of a coke oven between the bench and the top of the battery and the adjacent doors on both sides. Record the oven number and make the appropriate notation on the door area inspection sheet (Figure 303A-1).
11.3.3 Do not record the following sources as door area VE:
11.3.3.1 VE from ovens with doors removed. Record the oven number and make an appropriate notation under “Comments”;
11.3.3.2 VE from ovens where maintenance work is being conducted. Record the oven number and make an appropriate notation under “Comments”; or
11.3.3.3 VE from hot coke that has been spilled on the bench as a result of pushing.

# 12.0 Data Analysis and Calculations
Same as Method 303, Section 12.1, 12.2, 12.3, 12.4, and 12.5.

# 13.0 Method Performance
[Reserved]

# 14.0 Pollution Prevention
[Reserved]

# 15.0 Waste Management
[Reserved]

# 16.0 References
Same as Method 303, Section 16.0.

# 17.0 Tables, Diagrams, Flowcharts, and Validation Data
Company name:
Battery no.:
Date:
City, State:
Total no. of ovens in battery:
Observer name:
Certification expiration date:
Inoperable ovens:
Company representative(s):
Traverse time CS:
Traverse time PS:
Valid run (Y or N):
Time traverse started/completed
PS/CS
Door No.
Comments
(No. of blocked doors, interruptions to traverse, etc.)

# Figure 303A-1. Door Area Inspection

# Method 304A: Determination of Biodegradation Rates of Organic Compounds (Vent Option)

# 1.0 Scope and Application
1.1 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of biodegradation rates of organic compounds in an activated sludge process. The test method is designed to evaluate the ability of an aerobic biological reaction system to degrade or destroy specific components in waste streams. The method may also be used to determine the effects of changes in wastewater composition on operation. The biodegradation rates determined by utilizing this method are not representative of a full-scale system. The rates measured by this method shall be used in conjunction with the procedures listed in appendix C of this part to calculate the fraction emitted to the air versus the fraction biodegraded.

# 2.0 Summary of Method
2.1 A self-contained benchtop bioreactor system is assembled in the laboratory. A sample of mixed liquor is added and the waste stream is then fed continuously. The benchtop bioreactor is operated under conditions nearly identical to the target full-scale activated sludge process. Bioreactor temperature, dissolved oxygen concentration, average residence time in the reactor, waste composition, biomass concentration, and biomass composition of the full-scale process are the parameters which are duplicated in the benchtop bioreactor. Biomass shall be removed from the target full-scale activated sludge unit and held for no more than 4 hours prior to use in the benchtop bioreactor. If antifoaming agents are used in the full-scale system, they shall also be used in the benchtop bioreactor. The feed flowing into and the effluent exiting the benchtop bioreactor are analyzed to determine the
biodegradation rates of the target compounds. The flow rate of the exit vent is used to calculate the concentration of target compounds (utilizing Henry's law) in the exit gas stream. If Henry's law constants for the compounds of interest are not known, this method cannot be used in the determination of the biodegradation rate and Method 304B is the suggested method. The choice of analytical methodology for measuring the compounds of interest at the inlet and outlet to the benchtop bioreactor are left to the discretion of the source, except where validated methods are available.

# 3.0 Definitions
[Reserved]

# 4.0 Interferences
[Reserved]

# 5.0 Safety
5.1 If explosive gases are produced as a byproduct of biodegradation and could realistically pose a hazard, closely monitor headspace concentration of these gases to ensure laboratory safety. Placement of the benchtop bioreactor system inside a laboratory hood is recommended regardless of byproducts produced.

# 6.0. Equipment and Supplies

# Note:
Figure 304A-1 illustrates a typical laboratory apparatus used to measure biodegradation rates. While the following description refers to Figure 304A-1, the EPA recognizes that alternative reactor configurations, such as alternative reactor shapes and locations of probes and the feed inlet, will also meet the intent of this method. Ensure that the benchtop bioreactor system is self-contained and isolated from the atmosphere (except for the exit vent stream) by leak-checking fittings, tubing, etc.
6.1 Benchtop Bioreactor. The biological reaction is conducted in a biological oxidation reactor of at least 6 liters capacity. The benchtop bioreactor is sealed and equipped with internal probes for controlling and monitoring dissolved oxygen and internal temperature. The top of the reactor is equipped for aerators, gas flow ports, and instrumentation (while ensuring that no leaks to the atmosphere exist around the fittings).
6.2 Aeration gas. Aeration gas is added to the benchtop bioreactor through three diffusers, which are glass tubes that extend to the bottom fifth of the reactor depth. A pure oxygen pressurized cylinder is recommended in order to maintain the specified oxygen concentration. Install a blower (
e.g.,
Diaphragm Type, 15 SCFH capacity) to blow the aeration gas into the reactor diffusers. Measure the aeration gas flow rate with a rotameter (
e.g.,
0-15 SCFH recommended). The aeration gas will rise through the benchtop bioreactor, dissolving oxygen into the mixture in the process. The aeration gas must provide sufficient agitation to keep the solids in suspension. Provide an exit for the aeration gas from the top flange of the benchtop bioreactor through a water-cooled (
e.g.,
Allihn-type) vertical condenser. Install the condenser through a gas-tight fitting in the benchtop bioreactor closure. Install a splitter which directs a portion of the gas to an exit vent and the rest of the gas through an air recycle pump back to the benchtop bioreactor. Monitor and record the flow rate through the exit vent at least 3 times per day throughout the day.
6.3 Wastewater Feed. Supply the wastewater feed to the benchtop bioreactor in a collapsible low-density polyethylene container or collapsible liner in a container (
e.g.,
20 L) equipped with a spigot cap (collapsible containers or liners of other material may be required due to the permeability of some volatile compounds through polyethylene). Obtain the wastewater feed by sampling the wastewater feed in the target process. A representative sample of wastewater shall be obtained from the piping leading to the aeration tank. This sample may be obtained from existing sampling valves at the discharge of the wastewater feed pump, or collected from a pipe discharging to the aeration tank, or by pumping from a well-mixed equalization tank upstream from the aeration tank. Alternatively, wastewater can be pumped continuously to the laboratory apparatus from a bleed stream taken from the equalization tank of the full-scale treatment system.
6.3.1 Refrigeration System. Keep the wastewater feed cool by ice or by refrigeration to 4 °C. If using a bleed stream from the equalization tank, refrigeration is not required if the residence time in the bleed stream is less than five minutes.
6.3.2 Wastewater Feed Pump. The wastewater is pumped from the refrigerated container using a variable-speed peristaltic pump drive equipped with a peristaltic pump head. Add the feed solution to the benchtop bioreactor through a fitting on the top flange. Determine the rate of feed addition to provide a retention time in the benchtop bioreactor that is numerically equivalent to the retention time in the full-scale system. The wastewater shall be fed at a rate sufficient to achieve 90 to 100 percent of the full-scale system residence time.
6.3.3 Treated wastewater feed. The benchtop bioreactor effluent exits at the bottom of the reactor through a tube and proceeds to the clarifier.
6.4 Clarifier. The effluent flows to a separate closed clarifier that allows separation of biomass and effluent (
e.g.,
2-liter pear-shaped glass separatory funnel, modified by removing the stopcock and adding a 25-mm OD glass tube at the bottom). Benchtop bioreactor effluent enters the clarifier through a tube inserted to a depth of 0.08 m (3 in.) through a stopper at the top of the clarifier.
System effluent flows from a tube inserted through the stopper at the top of the clarifier to a drain (or sample bottle when sampling). The underflow from the clarifier leaves from the glass tube at the bottom of the clarifier. Flexible tubing connects this fitting to the sludge recycle pump. This pump is coupled to a variable speed pump drive. The discharge from this pump is returned through a tube inserted in a port on the side of the benchtop bioreactor. An additional port is provided near the bottom of the benchtop bioreactor for sampling the reactor contents. The mixed liquor from the benchtop bioreactor flows into the center of the clarifier. The clarified system effluent separates from the biomass and flows through an exit near the top of the clarifier. There shall be no headspace in the clarifier.
6.5 Temperature Control Apparatus. Capable of maintaining the system at a temperature equal to the temperature of the full-scale system. The average temperature should be maintained within ±2 °C of the set point.
6.5.1 Temperature Monitoring Device. A resistance type temperature probe or a thermocouple connected to a temperature readout with a resolution of 0.1 °C or better.
6.5.2 Benchtop Bioreactor Heater. The heater is connected to the temperature control device.
6.6 Oxygen Control System. Maintain the dissolved oxygen concentration at the levels present in the full-scale system. Target full-scale activated sludge systems with dissolved oxygen concentration below 2 mg/L are required to maintain the dissolved oxygen concentration in the benchtop ioreactor within 0.5 mg/L of the target dissolved oxygen level. Target full-scale activated sludge systems with dissolved oxygen concentration above 2 mg/L are required to maintain the dissolved oxygen concentration in the benchtop bioreactor within 1.5 mg/L of the target dissolved oxygen concentration; however, for target full-scale activated sludge systems with dissolved oxygen concentrations above 2 mg/L, the dissolved oxygen concentration in the benchtop bioreactor may not drop below 1.5 mg/L. If the benchtop bioreactor is outside the control range, the dissolved oxygen is noted and the reactor operation is adjusted.
6.6.1 Dissolved Oxygen Monitor. Dissolved oxygen is monitored with a polarographic probe (gas permeable membrane) connected to a dissolved oxygen meter (
e.g.,
0 to 15 mg/L, 0 to 50 °C).
6.6.2 Benchtop Bioreactor Pressure Monitor. The benchtop bioreactor pressure is monitored through a port in the top flange of the reactor. This is connected to a gauge control with a span of 13-cm water vacuum to 13-cm water pressure or better. A relay is activated when the vacuum exceeds an adjustable setpoint which opens a solenoid valve (normally closed), admitting oxygen to the system. The vacuum setpoint controlling oxygen addition to the system shall be set at approximately 2.5 ±0.5 cm water and maintained at this setting except during brief periods when the dissolved oxygen concentration is adjusted.
6.7 Connecting Tubing. All connecting tubing shall be Teflon or equivalent in impermeability. The only exception to this specification is the tubing directly inside the pump head of the wastewater feed pump, which may be Viton, Silicone or another type of flexible tubing.

# Note:
Mention of trade names or products does not constitute endorsement by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

# 7.0 Reagents and Standards
7.1 Wastewater. Obtain a representative sample of wastewater at the inlet to the full-scale treatment plant if there is an existing full-scale treatment plant (see section 6.3). If there is no existing full-scale treatment plant, obtain the wastewater sample as close to the point of determination as possible. Collect the sample by pumping the wastewater into the 20-L collapsible container. The loss of volatiles shall be minimized from the wastewater by collapsing the container before filling, by minimizing the time of filling, and by avoiding a headspace in the container after filling. If the wastewater requires the addition of nutrients to support the biomass growth and maintain biomass characteristics, those nutrients are added and mixed with the container contents after the container is filled.
7.2 Biomass. Obtain the biomass or activated sludge used for rate constant determination in the bench-scale process from the existing full-scale process or from a representative biomass culture (
e.g.,
biomass that has been developed for a future full-scale process). This biomass is preferentially obtained from a thickened acclimated mixed liquor sample. Collect the sample either by bailing from the mixed liquor in the aeration tank with a weighted container, or by collecting aeration tank effluent at the effluent overflow weir. Transport the sample to the laboratory within no more than 4 hours of collection. Maintain the biomass concentration in the benchtop bioreactor at the level of the full-scale system + 10 percent throughout the sampling period of the test method.

# 8.0 Sample Collection, Preservation, Storage, and Transport
8.1 Benchtop Bioreactor Operation. Charge the mixed liquor to the benchtop bioreactor, minimizing headspace over the liquid surface to minimize entrainment of mixed liquor in the circulating gas. Fasten the benchtop bioreactor headplate to the reactor over the liquid surface. Maintain the
temperature of the contents of the benchtop bioreactor system at the temperature of the target full-scale system, ±2 °C, throughout the testing period. Monitor and record the temperature of the benchtop bioreactor contents at least to the nearest 0.1 °C.
8.1.1 Wastewater Storage. Collect the wastewater sample in the 20-L collapsible container. Store the container at 4 °C throughout the testing period. Connect the container to the benchtop bioreactor feed pump.
8.1.2 Wastewater Flow Rate.
8.1.2.1 The hydraulic residence time of the aeration tank is calculated as the ratio of the volume of the tank (L) to the flow rate (L/min). At the beginning of a test, the container shall be connected to the feed pump and solution shall be pumped to the benchtop bioreactor at the required flow rate to achieve the calculated hydraulic residence time of wastewater in the aeration tank.
ER17OC00.547
Where:
Q
test
= wastewater flow rate (L/min)
Q
fs
= average flow rate of full-scale process (L/min)
V
fs
= volume of full-scale aeration tank (L)
8.1.2.2 The target flow rate in the test apparatus is the same as the flow rate in the target full-scale process multiplied by the ratio of benchtop bioreactor volume (e.g., 6 L) to the volume of the full-scale aeration tank. The hydraulic residence time shall be maintained at 90 to 100 percent of the residence time maintained in the full-scale unit. A nominal flow rate is set on the pump based on a pump calibration. Changes in the elasticity of the tubing in the pump head and the accumulation of material in the tubing affect this calibration. The nominal pumping rate shall be changed as necessary based on volumetric flow measurements. Discharge the benchtop bioreactor effluent to a wastewater storage, treatment, or disposal facility, except during sampling or flow measurement periods.
8.1.3 Sludge Recycle Rate. Set the sludge recycle rate at a rate sufficient to prevent accumulation in the bottom of the clarifier. Set the air circulation rate sufficient to maintain the biomass in suspension.
8.1.4 Benchtop Bioreactor Operation and Maintenance. Temperature, dissolved oxygen concentration, exit vent flow rate, benchtop bioreactor effluent flow rate, and air circulation rate shall be measured and recorded three times throughout each day of benchtop bioreactor operation. If other parameters (such as pH) are measured and maintained in the target full-scale unit, these parameters, where appropriate, shall be monitored and maintained to target full-scale specifications in the benchtop bioreactor. At the beginning of each sampling period (Section 8.2), sample the benchtop bioreactor contents for suspended solids analysis. Take this sample by loosening a clamp on a length of tubing attached to the lower side port. Determine the suspended solids gravimetrically by the Gooch crucible/glass fiber filter method for total suspended solids, in accordance with Standard Methods
3
or equivalent. When necessary, sludge shall be wasted from the lower side port of the benchtop bioreactor, and the volume that is wasted shall be replaced with an equal volume of the reactor effluent. Add thickened activated sludge mixed liquor as necessary to the benchtop bioreactor to increase the suspended solids concentration to the desired level. Pump this mixed liquor to the benchtop bioreactor through the upper side port (Item 24 in Figure 304A-1). Change the membrane on the dissolved oxygen probe before starting the test. Calibrate the oxygen probe immediately before the start of the test and each time the membrane is changed.
8.1.5 Inspection and Correction Procedures. If the feed line tubing becomes clogged, replace with new tubing. If the feed flow rate is not within 5 percent of target flow any time the flow rate is measured, reset pump or check the flow measuring device and measure flow rate again until target flow rate is achieved.
8.2 Test Sampling. At least two and one half hydraulic residence times after the system has reached the targeted specifications shall be permitted to elapse before the first sample is taken. Effluent samples of the clarifier discharge (Item 20 in Figure 304A-1) and the influent wastewater feed are collected in 40-mL septum vials to which two drops of 1:10 hydrochloric acid (HCl) in water have been added. Sample the clarifier discharge directly from the drain line. These samples will be composed of the entire flow from the system for a period of several minutes. Feed samples shall be taken from the feed pump suction line after temporarily stopping the benchtop bioreactor feed, removing a connector, and squeezing the collapsible feed container. Store both influent and effluent samples at 4 °C immediately
after collection and analyze within 8 hours of collection.
8.2.1 Frequency of Sampling. During the test, sample and analyze the wastewater feed and the clarifier effluent at least six times. The sampling intervals shall be separated by at least 8 hours. During any individual sampling interval, sample the wastewater feed simultaneously with or immediately after the effluent sample. Calculate the relative standard deviation (RSD) of the amount removed (
i.e.,
effluent concentration—wastewater feed concentration). The RSD values shall be
15 percent. If an RSD value is
15 percent, continue sampling and analyzing influent and effluent sets of samples until the RSD values are within specifications.
8.2.2 Sampling After Exposure of System to Atmosphere. If, after starting sampling procedures, the benchtop bioreactor system is exposed to the atmosphere (due to leaks, maintenance, etc.), allow at least one hydraulic residence time to elapse before resuming sampling.

# 9.0 Quality Control
9.1 Dissolved Oxygen. Fluctuation in dissolved oxygen concentration may occur for numerous reasons, including undetected gas leaks, increases and decreases in mixed liquor suspended solids resulting from cell growth and solids loss in the effluent stream, changes in diffuser performance, cycling of effluent flow rate, and overcorrection due to faulty or sluggish dissolved oxygen probe response. Control the dissolved oxygen concentration in the benchtop bioreactor by changing the proportion of oxygen in the circulating aeration gas. Should the dissolved oxygen concentration drift below the designated experimental condition, bleed a small amount of aeration gas from the system on the pressure side (i.e., immediately upstream of one of the diffusers). This will create a vacuum in the system, triggering the pressure sensitive relay to open the solenoid valve and admit oxygen to the system. Should the dissolved oxygen concentration drift above the designated experimental condition, slow or stop the oxygen input to the system until the dissolved oxygen concentration approaches the correct level.
9.2 Sludge Wasting.
9.2.1 Determine the suspended solids concentration (section 8.1.4) at the beginning of a test, and once per day thereafter during the test. If the test is completed within a two day period, determine the suspended solids concentration after the final sample set is taken. If the suspended solids concentration exceeds the specified concentration, remove a fraction of the sludge from the benchtop bioreactor. The required volume of mixed liquor to remove is determined as follows:
ER17OC00.548
Where:
V
w
is the wasted volume (Liters),
V
r
is the volume of the benchtop bioreactor (Liters),
S
m
is the measured solids (g/L), and
S
s
is the specified solids (g/L).
9.2.2 Remove the mixed liquor from the benchtop bioreactor by loosening a clamp on the mixed liquor sampling tube and allowing the required volume to drain to a graduated flask. Clamp the tube when the correct volume has been wasted. Replace the volume of the liquid wasted by pouring the same volume of effluent back into the benchtop bioreactor. Dispose of the waste sludge properly.
9.3 Sludge Makeup. In the event that the suspended solids concentration is lower than the specifications, add makeup sludge back into the benchtop bioreactor. Determine the amount of sludge added by the following equation:
ER17OC00.549
Where:
V
w
is the volume of sludge to add (Liters),
V
r
is the volume of the benchtop bioreactor (Liters),
S
w
is the solids in the makeup sludge (g/L),
S
m
is the measured solids (g/L), and S
s
is the specified solids (g/L).

# 10.0 Calibration and Standardization
10.1 Wastewater Pump Calibration. Determine the wastewater flow rate by collecting the system effluent for a time period of at least one hour, and measuring the volume with a graduated cylinder. Record the collection time period and volume collected. Determine flow rate. Adjust the pump speed to deliver the specified flow rate.
10.2 Calibration Standards. Prepare calibration standards from pure certified standards in an aqueous medium. Prepare and analyze three concentrations of calibration standards for each target component (or for a mixture of components) in triplicate daily throughout the analyses of the test samples. At each concentration level, a single calibration shall be within 5 percent of the average of the three calibration results. The low and medium calibration standards shall bracket the expected concentration of the effluent (treated) wastewater. The medium and high standards shall bracket the expected influent concentration.

# 11.0 Analytical Procedures
11.1 Analysis. If the identity of the compounds of interest in the wastewater is not known, a representative sample of the wastewater shall be analyzed in order to identify all of the compounds of interest present. A gas chromatography/mass spectrometry screening method is recommended.
11.1.1 After identifying the compounds of interest in the wastewater, develop and/or use one or more analytical techniques capable of measuring each of those compounds (more than one analytical technique may be required, depending on the characteristics of the wastewater). Test Method 18, found in appendix A of 40 CFR 60, may be used as a guideline in developing the analytical technique. Purge and trap techniques may be used for analysis providing the target components are sufficiently volatile to make this technique appropriate. The limit of quantitation for each compound shall be determined (see reference 1). If the effluent concentration of any target compound is below the limit of quantitation determined for that compound, the operation of the Method 304 unit may be altered to attempt to increase the effluent concentration above the limit of quantitation. Modifications to the method shall be approved prior to the test. The request should be addressed to Method 304 contact, Emissions Measurement Center, Mail Drop 19, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.

# 12.0 Data Analysis and Calculations
12.1 Nomenclature. The following symbols are used in the calculations.
C
i
= Average inlet feed concentration for a compound of interest, as analyzed (mg/L)
C
o
= Average outlet (effluent) concentration for a compound of interest, as analyzed (mg/L)
X = Biomass concentration, mixed liquor suspended solids (g/L)
t = Hydraulic residence time in the benchtop bioreactor (hours)
V = Volume of the benchtop bioreactor (L)
Q = Flow rate of wastewater into the benchtop bioreactor, average (L/hour)
12.2 Residence Time. The hydraulic residence time of the benchtop bioreactor is equal to the ratio of the volume of the benchtop bioreactor (L) to the flow rate (L/h):
ER17OC00.550
12.3 Rate of Biodegradation. Calculate the rate of biodegradation for each component with the following equation:
ER17OC00.551
12.4 First-Order Biorate Constant. Calculate the first-order biorate constant (K1) for each component with the following equation:
ER17OC00.552
12.5 Relative Standard Deviation (RSD). Determine the standard deviation of both the influent and effluent sample concentrations (S) using the following equation:
ER17OC00.553
12.6 Determination of Percent Air Emissions and Percent Biodegraded. Use the results from this test method and follow the applicable procedures in appendix C of 40 CFR part 63, entitled, “Determination of the Fraction Biodegraded (F
bio
) in a Biological Treatment Unit” to determine F
bio
.

# 13.0 Method Performance
[Reserved]

# 14.0 Pollution Prevention
[Reserved]

# 15.0 Waste Management
[Reserved]

# 16.0 References
1. “Guidelines for data acquisition and data quality evaluation in Environmental Chemistry,” Daniel MacDoughal, Analytical Chemistry, Volume 52, p. 2242, 1980.
2. Test Method 18, 40 CFR 60, appendix A.
3. Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, 16th Edition, Method 209C, Total Suspended Solids Dried at 103-105 °C, APHA, 1985.
4. Water7, Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Facilities (TSDF)—Air Emission Models, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA-450/3-87-026, Review Draft, November 1989.
5. Chemdat7, Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Facilities (TSDF)—Air Emission Models, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA-450/3-87-026, Review Draft, November 1989.

# 17.0 Tables, Diagrams, Flowcharts, and Validation Data
ER17OC00.554

# Method 304B: Determination of Biodegradation Rates of Organic Compounds (Scrubber Option)

# 1.0 Scope and Application
1.1 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of biodegradation rates of organic compounds in an activated sludge process. The test method is designed to evaluate the ability of an aerobic biological reaction system to degrade or destroy specific components in waste streams. The method may also be used to determine the effects of changes in wastewater composition on operation. The biodegradation rates determined by utilizing this method are not representative of a full-scale system. Full-scale systems embody biodegradation and air
emissions in competing reactions. This method measures biodegradation in absence of air emissions. The rates measured by this method shall be used in conjunction with the procedures listed in appendix C of this part to calculate the fraction emitted to the air versus the fraction biodegraded.

# 2.0 Summary of Method
2.1 A self-contained benchtop bioreactor system is assembled in the laboratory. A sample of mixed liquor is added and the waste stream is then fed continuously. The benchtop bioreactor is operated under conditions nearly identical to the target full-scale activated sludge process, except that air emissions are not a factor. The benchtop bioreactor temperature, dissolved oxygen concentration, average residence time in the reactor, waste composition, biomass concentration, and biomass composition of the target full-scale process are the parameters which are duplicated in the laboratory system. Biomass shall be removed from the target full-scale activated sludge unit and held for no more than 4 hours prior to use in the benchtop bioreactor. If antifoaming agents are used in the full-scale system, they shall also be used in the benchtop bioreactor. The feed flowing into and the effluent exiting the benchtop bioreactor are analyzed to determine the biodegradation rates of the target compounds. The choice of analytical methodology for measuring the compounds of interest at the inlet and outlet to the benchtop bioreactor are left to the discretion of the source, except where validated methods are available.

# 3.0 Definitions
[Reserved]

# 4.0 Interferences
[Reserved]

# 5.0 Safety
5.1 If explosive gases are produced as a byproduct of biodegradation and could realistically pose a hazard, closely monitor headspace concentration of these gases to ensure laboratory safety. Placement of the benchtop bioreactor system inside a laboratory hood is recommended regardless of byproducts produced.

# 6.0 Equipment and Supplies

# Note:
Figure 304B-1 illustrates a typical laboratory apparatus used to measure biodegradation rates. While the following description refers to Figure 304B-1, the EPA recognizes that alternative reactor configurations, such as alternative reactor shapes and locations of probes and the feed inlet, will also meet the intent of this method. Ensure that the benchtop bioreactor system is self-contained and isolated from the atmosphere by leak-checking fittings, tubing, etc.
6.1 Benchtop Bioreactor. The biological reaction is conducted in a biological oxidation reactor of at least 6-liters capacity. The benchtop bioreactor is sealed and equipped with internal probes for controlling and monitoring dissolved oxygen and internal temperature. The top of the benchtop bioreactor is equipped for aerators, gas flow ports, and instrumentation (while ensuring that no leaks to the atmosphere exist around the fittings).
6.2 Aeration gas. Aeration gas is added to the benchtop bioreactor through three diffusers, which are glass tubes that extend to the bottom fifth of the reactor depth. A pure oxygen pressurized cylinder is recommended in order to maintain the specified oxygen concentration. Install a blower (
e.g.,
Diaphragm Type, 15 SCFH capacity) to blow the aeration gas into the benchtop bioreactor diffusers. Measure the aeration gas flow rate with a rotameter (
e.g.,
0-15 SCFH recommended). The aeration gas will rise through the benchtop bioreactor, dissolving oxygen into the mixture in the process. The aeration gas must provide sufficient agitation to keep the solids in suspension. Provide an exit for the aeration gas from the top flange of the benchtop bioreactor through a water-cooled (
e.g.,
Allihn-type) vertical condenser. Install the condenser through a gas-tight fitting in the benchtop bioreactor closure. Design the system so that at least 10 percent of the gas flows through an alkaline scrubber containing 175 mL of 45 percent by weight solution of potassium hydroxide (KOH) and 5 drops of 0.2 percent alizarin yellow dye. Route the balance of the gas through an adjustable scrubber bypass. Route all of the gas through a 1-L knock-out flask to remove entrained moisture and then to the intake of the blower. The blower recirculates the gas to the benchtop bioreactor.
6.3 Wastewater Feed. Supply the wastewater feed to the benchtop bioreactor in a collapsible low-density polyethylene container or collapsible liner in a container (
e.g.,
20 L) equipped with a spigot cap (collapsible containers or liners of other material may be required due to the permeability of some volatile compounds through polyethylene). Obtain the wastewater feed by sampling the wastewater feed in the target process. A representative sample of wastewater shall be obtained from the piping leading to the aeration tank. This sample may be obtained from existing sampling valves at the discharge of the wastewater feed pump, or collected from a pipe discharging to the aeration tank, or by pumping from a well-mixed equalization tank upstream from the aeration tank. Alternatively, wastewater can be pumped continuously to the laboratory apparatus from a bleed stream taken from the equalization tank of the full-scale treatment system.
6.3.1 Refrigeration System. Keep the wastewater feed cool by ice or by refrigeration to 4 °C. If using a bleed stream from the
equalization tank, refrigeration is not required if the residence time in the bleed stream is less than five minutes.
6.3.2 Wastewater Feed Pump. The wastewater is pumped from the refrigerated container using a variable-speed peristaltic pump drive equipped with a peristaltic pump head. Add the feed solution to the benchtop bioreactor through a fitting on the top flange. Determine the rate of feed addition to provide a retention time in the benchtop bioreactor that is numerically equivalent to the retention time in the target full-scale system. The wastewater shall be fed at a rate sufficient to achieve 90 to 100 percent of the target full-scale system residence time.
6.3.3 Treated wastewater feed. The benchtop bioreactor effluent exits at the bottom of the reactor through a tube and proceeds to the clarifier.
6.4 Clarifier. The effluent flows to a separate closed clarifier that allows separation of biomass and effluent (
e.g.,
2-liter pear-shaped glass separatory funnel, modified by removing the stopcock and adding a 25-mm OD glass tube at the bottom). Benchtop bioreactor effluent enters the clarifier through a tube inserted to a depth of 0.08 m (3 in.) through a stopper at the top of the clarifier. System effluent flows from a tube inserted through the stopper at the top of the clarifier to a drain (or sample bottle when sampling). The underflow from the clarifier leaves from the glass tube at the bottom of the clarifier. Flexible tubing connects this fitting to the sludge recycle pump. This pump is coupled to a variable speed pump drive. The discharge from this pump is returned through a tube inserted in a port on the side of the benchtop bioreactor. An additional port is provided near the bottom of the benchtop bioreactor for sampling the reactor contents. The mixed liquor from the benchtop bioreactor flows into the center of the clarifier. The clarified system effluent separates from the biomass and flows through an exit near the top of the clarifier. There shall be no headspace in the clarifier.
6.5 Temperature Control Apparatus. Capable of maintaining the system at a temperature equal to the temperature of the full-scale system. The average temperature should be maintained within ±2 °C of the set point.
6.5.1 Temperature Monitoring Device. A resistance type temperature probe or a thermocouple connected to a temperature readout with a resolution of 0.1 °C or better.
6.5.2 Benchtop Bioreactor Heater. The heater is connected to the temperature control device.
6.6 Oxygen Control System. Maintain the dissolved oxygen concentration at the levels present in the full-scale system. Target full-scale activated sludge systems with dissolved oxygen concentration below 2 mg/L are required to maintain the dissolved oxygen concentration in the benchtop bioreactor within 0.5 mg/L of the target dissolved oxygen level. Target full-scale activated sludge systems with dissolved oxygen concentration above 2 mg/L are required to maintain the dissolved oxygen concentration in the benchtop bioreactor within 1.5 mg/L of the target dissolved oxygen concentration; however, for target full-scale activated sludge systems with dissolved oxygen concentrations above 2 mg/L, the dissolved oxygen concentration in the benchtop bioreactor may not drop below 1.5 mg/L. If the benchtop bioreactor is outside the control range, the dissolved oxygen is noted and the reactor operation is adjusted.
6.6.1 Dissolved Oxygen Monitor. Dissolved oxygen is monitored with a polarographic probe (gas permeable membrane) connected to a dissolved oxygen meter (
e.g.,
0 to 15 mg/L, 0 to 50 °C).
6.6.2 Benchtop Bioreactor Pressure Monitor. The benchtop bioreactor pressure is monitored through a port in the top flange of the reactor. This is connected to a gauge control with a span of 13-cm water vacuum to 13-cm water pressure or better. A relay is activated when the vacuum exceeds an adjustable setpoint which opens a solenoid valve (normally closed), admitting oxygen to the system. The vacuum setpoint controlling oxygen addition to the system shall be set at approximately 2.5 ±0.5 cm water and maintained at this setting except during brief periods when the dissolved oxygen concentration is adjusted.
6.7 Connecting Tubing. All connecting tubing shall be Teflon or equivalent in impermeability. The only exception to this specification is the tubing directly inside the pump head of the wastewater feed pump, which may be Viton, Silicone or another type of flexible tubing.

# Note:
Mention of trade names or products does not constitute endorsement by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

# 7.0. Reagents and Standards
7.1 Wastewater. Obtain a representative sample of wastewater at the inlet to the full-scale treatment plant if there is an existing full-scale treatment plant (See Section 6.3). If there is no existing full-scale treatment plant, obtain the wastewater sample as close to the point of determination as possible. Collect the sample by pumping the wastewater into the 20-L collapsible container. The loss of volatiles shall be minimized from the wastewater by collapsing the container before filling, by minimizing the time of filling, and by avoiding a headspace in the container after filling. If the wastewater requires the addition of nutrients to support the biomass growth and maintain biomass characteristics, those nutrients are added
and mixed with the container contents after the container is filled.
7.2 Biomass. Obtain the biomass or activated sludge used for rate constant determination in the bench-scale process from the existing full-scale process or from a representative biomass culture (
e.g.,
biomass that has been developed for a future full-scale process). This biomass is preferentially obtained from a thickened acclimated mixed liquor sample. Collect the sample either by bailing from the mixed liquor in the aeration tank with a weighted container, or by collecting aeration tank effluent at the effluent overflow weir. Transport the sample to the laboratory within no more than 4 hours of collection. Maintain the biomass concentration in the benchtop bioreactor at the level of the target full-scale system + 10 percent throughout the sampling period of the test method.

# 8.0 Sample Collection, Preservation, Storage, and Transport
8.1 Benchtop Bioreactor Operation. Charge the mixed liquor to the benchtop bioreactor, minimizing headspace over the liquid surface to minimize entrainment of mixed liquor in the circulating gas. Fasten the benchtop bioreactor headplate to the reactor over the liquid surface. Maintain the temperature of the contents of the benchtop bioreactor system at the temperature of the target full-scale system, ±2 °C, throughout the testing period. Monitor and record the temperature of the reactor contents at least to the nearest 0.1 °C.
8.1.1 Wastewater Storage. Collect the wastewater sample in the 20-L collapsible container. Store the container at 4 °C throughout the testing period. Connect the container to the benchtop bioreactor feed pump.
8.1.2 Wastewater Flow Rate.
8.1.2.1 The hydraulic residence time of the aeration tank is calculated as the ratio of the volume of the tank (L) to the flow rate (L/min). At the beginning of a test, the container shall be connected to the feed pump and solution shall be pumped to the benchtop bioreactor at the required flow rate to achieve the calculated hydraulic residence time of wastewater in the aeration tank.
ER17OC00.555
Where:
Q
test
= wastewater flow rate (L/min)
Q
fs
= average flow rate of full-scale process (L/min)
V
fs
= volume of full-scale aeration tank (L)
8.1.2.2 The target flow rate in the test apparatus is the same as the flow rate in the target full-scale process multiplied by the ratio of benchtop bioreactor volume (
e.g.,
6 L) to the volume of the full-scale aeration tank. The hydraulic residence time shall be maintained at 90 to 100 percent of the residence time maintained in the target full-scale unit. A nominal flow rate is set on the pump based on a pump calibration. Changes in the elasticity of the tubing in the pump head and the accumulation of material in the tubing affect this calibration. The nominal pumping rate shall be changed as necessary based on volumetric flow measurements. Discharge the benchtop bioreactor effluent to a wastewater storage, treatment, or disposal facility, except during sampling or flow measurement periods.
8.1.3 Sludge Recycle Rate. Set the sludge recycle rate at a rate sufficient to prevent accumulation in the bottom of the clarifier. Set the air circulation rate sufficient to maintain the biomass in suspension.
8.1.4 Benchtop Bioreactor Operation and Maintenance. Temperature, dissolved oxygen concentration, flow rate, and air circulation rate shall be measured and recorded three times throughout each day of testing. If other parameters (such as pH) are measured and maintained in the target full-scale unit, these parameters shall, where appropriate, be monitored and maintained to full-scale specifications in the benchtop bioreactor. At the beginning of each sampling period (section 8.2), sample the benchtop bioreactor contents for suspended solids analysis. Take this sample by loosening a clamp on a length of tubing attached to the lower side port. Determine the suspended solids gravimetrically by the Gooch crucible/glass fiber filter method for total suspended solids, in accordance with Standard Methods
3
or equivalent. When necessary, sludge shall be wasted from the lower side port of the benchtop bioreactor, and the volume that is wasted shall be replaced with an equal volume of the benchtop bioreactor effluent. Add thickened activated sludge mixed liquor as necessary to the benchtop bioreactor to increase the suspended solids concentration to the desired level. Pump this mixed liquor to the benchtop bioreactor through the upper side port (Item 24 in Figure 304B-1). Change the
membrane on the dissolved oxygen probe before starting the test. Calibrate the oxygen probe immediately before the start of the test and each time the membrane is changed. The scrubber solution shall be replaced each weekday with 175 mL 45 percent W/W KOH solution to which five drops of 0.2 percent alizarin yellow indicator in water have been added. The potassium hydroxide solution in the alkaline scrubber shall be changed if the alizarin yellow dye color changes.
8.1.5 Inspection and Correction Procedures. If the feed line tubing becomes clogged, replace with new tubing. If the feed flow rate is not within 5 percent of target flow any time the flow rate is measured, reset pump or check the flow measuring device and measure flow rate again until target flow rate is achieved.
8.2 Test Sampling. At least two and one half hydraulic residence times after the system has reached the targeted specifications shall be permitted to elapse before the first sample is taken. Effluent samples of the clarifier discharge (Item 20 in Figure 304B-1) and the influent wastewater feed are collected in 40-mL septum vials to which two drops of 1:10 hydrochloric acid (HCl) in water have been added. Sample the clarifier discharge directly from the drain line. These samples will be composed of the entire flow from the system for a period of several minutes. Feed samples shall be taken from the feed pump suction line after temporarily stopping the benchtop bioreactor feed, removing a connector, and squeezing the collapsible feed container. Store both influent and effluent samples at 4 °C immediately after collection and analyze within 8 hours of collection.
8.2.1 Frequency of Sampling. During the test, sample and analyze the wastewater feed and the clarifier effluent at least six times. The sampling intervals shall be separated by at least 8 hours. During any individual sampling interval, sample the wastewater feed simultaneously with or immediately after the effluent sample. Calculate the RSD of the amount removed (
i.e.,
effluent concentration—wastewater feed concentration). The RSD values shall be
15 percent. If an RSD value is
15 percent, continue sampling and analyzing influent and effluent sets of samples until the RSD values are within specifications.
8.2.2 Sampling After Exposure of System to Atmosphere. If, after starting sampling procedures, the benchtop bioreactor system is exposed to the atmosphere (due to leaks, maintenance, etc.), allow at least one hydraulic residence time to elapse before resuming sampling.

# 9.0 Quality Control
9.1 Dissolved Oxygen. Fluctuation in dissolved oxygen concentration may occur for numerous reasons, including undetected gas leaks, increases and decreases in mixed liquor suspended solids resulting from cell growth and solids loss in the effluent stream, changes in diffuser performance, cycling of effluent flow rate, and overcorrection due to faulty or sluggish dissolved oxygen probe response. Control the dissolved oxygen concentration in the benchtop bioreactor by changing the proportion of oxygen in the circulating aeration gas. Should the dissolved oxygen concentration drift below the designated experimental condition, bleed a small amount of aeration gas from the system on the pressure side (
i.e.,
immediately upstream of one of the diffusers). This will create a vacuum in the system, triggering the pressure sensitive relay to open the solenoid valve and admit oxygen to the system. Should the dissolved oxygen concentration drift above the designated experimental condition, slow or stop the oxygen input to the system until the dissolved oxygen concentration approaches the correct level.
9.2 Sludge Wasting.
9.2.1 Determine the suspended solids concentration (section 8.1.4) at the beginning of a test, and once per day thereafter during the test. If the test is completed within a two day period, determine the suspended solids concentration after the final sample set is taken. If the suspended solids concentration exceeds the specified concentration, remove a fraction of the sludge from the benchtop bioreactor. The required volume of mixed liquor to remove is determined as follows:
ER17OC00.556
Where:
V
w
is the wasted volume (Liters),
V
r
is the volume of the benchtop bioreactor (Liters),
S
m
is the measured solids (g/L), and
S
s
is the specified solids (g/L).
9.2.2 Remove the mixed liquor from the benchtop bioreactor by loosening a clamp on the mixed liquor sampling tube and allowing the required volume to drain to a graduated
flask. Clamp the tube when the correct volume has been wasted. Replace the volume of the liquid wasted by pouring the same volume of effluent back into the benchtop bioreactor. Dispose of the waste sludge properly.
9.3 Sludge Makeup. In the event that the suspended solids concentration is lower than the specifications, add makeup sludge back into the benchtop bioreactor. Determine the amount of sludge added by the following equation:
ER17OC00.557
Where:
V
w
is the volume of sludge to add (Liters),
V
r
is the volume of the benchtop bioreactor (Liters),
S
w
is the solids in the makeup sludge (g/L),
S
m
is the measured solids (g/L), and
S
s
is the specified solids (g/L).

# 10.0 Calibration and Standardizations
10.1 Wastewater Pump Calibration. Determine the wastewater flow rate by collecting the system effluent for a time period of at least one hour, and measuring the volume with a graduated cylinder. Record the collection time period and volume collected. Determine flow rate. Adjust the pump speed to deliver the specified flow rate.
10.2 Calibration Standards. Prepare calibration standards from pure certified standards in an aqueous medium. Prepare and analyze three concentrations of calibration standards for each target component (or for a mixture of components) in triplicate daily throughout the analyses of the test samples. At each concentration level, a single calibration shall be within 5 percent of the average of the three calibration results. The low and medium calibration standards shall bracket the expected concentration of the effluent (treated) wastewater. The medium and high standards shall bracket the expected influent concentration.

# 11.0 Analytical Test Procedures
11.1 Analysis. If the identity of the compounds of interest in the wastewater is not known, a representative sample of the wastewater shall be analyzed in order to identify all of the compounds of interest present. A gas chromatography/mass spectrometry screening method is recommended.
11.1.1 After identifying the compounds of interest in the wastewater, develop and/or use one or more analytical technique capable of measuring each of those compounds (more than one analytical technique may be required, depending on the characteristics of the wastewater). Method 18, found in appendix A of 40 CFR 60, may be used as a guideline in developing the analytical technique. Purge and trap techniques may be used for analysis providing the target components are sufficiently volatile to make this technique appropriate. The limit of quantitation for each compound shall be determined.
1
If the effluent concentration of any target compound is below the limit of quantitation determined for that compound, the operation of the Method 304 unit may be altered to attempt to increase the effluent concentration above the limit of quantitation. Modifications to the method shall be approved prior to the test. The request should be addressed to Method 304 contact, Emissions Measurement Center, Mail Drop 19, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.

# 12.0 Data Analysis and Calculations
12.1 Nomenclature. The following symbols are used in the calculations.
C
i
= Average inlet feed concentration for a compound of interest, as analyzed (mg/L)
C
o
= Average outlet (effluent) concentration for a compound of interest, as analyzed (mg/L)
X = Biomass concentration, mixed liquor suspended solids (g/L)
t = Hydraulic residence time in the benchtop bioreactor (hours)
V = Volume of the benchtop bioreactor (L)
Q = Flow rate of wastewater into the benchtop bioreactor, average (L/hour)
12.2 Residence Time. The hydraulic residence time of the benchtop bioreactor is equal to the ratio of the volume of the benchtop bioreactor (L) to the flow rate (L/h)
ER17OC00.558
12.3 Rate of Biodegradation. Calculate the rate of biodegradation for each component with the following equation:
ER17OC00.559
12.4 First-Order Biorate Constant. Calculate the first-order biorate constant (K1) for each component with the following equation:
ER17OC00.560
12.5 Relative Standard Deviation (RSD). Determine the standard deviation of both the influent and effluent sample concentrations (S) using the following equation:
ER17OC00.561
12.6 Determination of Percent Air Emissions and Percent Biodegraded. Use the results from this test method and follow the applicable procedures in appendix C of 40 CFR Part 63, entitled, “Determination of the Fraction Biodegraded (F
bio
) in a Biological Treatment Unit” to determine F
bio
.

# 13.0 Method Performance
[Reserved]

# 14.0 Pollution Prevention
[Reserved]

# 15.0 Waste Management
[Reserved]

# 16.0 References
1. “Guidelines for data acquisition and data quality evaluation in Environmental Chemistry”, Daniel MacDoughal, Analytical Chemistry, Volume 52, p. 2242, 1980.
2. Test Method 18, 40 CFR 60, Appendix A.
3. Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, 16th Edition, Method 209C, Total Suspended Solids Dried at 103-105 °C, APHA, 1985.
4. Water—7, Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Facilities (TSDF)—Air Emission Models, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA-450/3-87-026, Review Draft, November 1989.
5. Chemdat7, Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Facilities (TSDF)—Air Emission Models, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA-450/3-87-026, Review Draft, November 1989.

# 17.0 Tables, Diagrams, Flowcharts, and Validation Data
ER17oc00.562

# Method 305: Measurement of Emission Potential of Individual Volatile Organic Compounds in Waste

# Note:
This method does not include all of the specifications (
e.g.,
equipment and supplies) and procedures (
e.g.,
sampling and analytical) essential to its performance. Some material is incorporated by reference from other methods in 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A. Therefore, to obtain reliable results, persons using this method should have a thorough knowledge of at least Method 25D.

# 1.0 Scope and Application
1.1 Analyte. Volatile Organics. No CAS No. assigned.
1.2 Applicability. This procedure is used to determine the emission potential of individual volatile organics (VOs) in waste.
1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

# 2.0 Summary of Method
2.1 The heated purge conditions established by Method 25D (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A) are used to remove VOs from a 10 gram sample of waste suspended in a 50/50 solution of polyethylene glycol (PEG) and water. The purged VOs are quantified by using the sample collection and analytical techniques (
e.g.
gas chromatography) appropriate for the VOs present in the waste. The recovery efficiency of the sample collection and analytical technique is determined for each waste matrix. A correction factor is determined for each compound (if acceptable recovery criteria requirements are met of 70 to 130 percent recovery for every target compound), and the measured waste concentration is corrected with the correction factor for each compound. A minimum of three replicate waste samples shall be analyzed.

# 3.0 Definitions
[Reserved]

# 4.0 Interferences
[Reserved]

# 5.0 Safety
5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

# 6.0 Equipment and Supplies
6.1 Method 25D Purge Apparatus.
6.1.1 Purge Chamber. The purge chamber shall accommodate the 10 gram sample of waste suspended in a matrix of 50 mL of PEG and 50 mL of deionized, hydrocarbon-free water. Three fittings are used on the glass chamber top. Two #7 Ace-threads are used for the purge gas inlet and outlet connections. A #50 Ace-thread is used to connect the top of the chamber to the base (see Figure 305-1). The base of the chamber has a side-arm equipped with a #22 Sovirel fitting to allow for easy sample introductions into the chamber. The dimensions of the chamber are shown in Figure 305-1.
6.1.2 Flow Distribution Device (FDD). The FDD enhances the gas-to-liquid contact for improved purging efficiency. The FDD is a 6 mm OD (0.2 in) by 30 cm (12 in) long glass tube equipped with four arm bubblers as shown in Figure 305-1. Each arm shall have an opening of 1 mm (0.04 in) in diameter.
6.1.3 Coalescing Filter. The coalescing filter serves to discourage aerosol formation of sample gas once it leaves the purge chamber. The glass filter has a fritted disc mounted 10 cm (3.9 in) from the bottom. Two #7 Ace-threads are used for the inlet and outlet connections. The dimensions of the chamber are shown in Figure 305-2.
6.1.4 Oven. A forced convection airflow oven capable of maintaining the purge chamber and coalescing filter at 75 ±2 °C (167 ±3.6 °F).
6.1.5 Toggle Valve. An on/off valve constructed from brass or stainless steel rated to 100 psig. This valve is placed in line between the purge nitrogen source and the flow controller.
6.1.6 Flow Controller. High-quality stainless steel flow controller capable of restricting a flow of nitrogen to 6 ±0.06 L/min (0.2 ±0.002 ft
3
/min) at 40 psig.
6.1.7 Polyethylene Glycol Cleaning System.
6.1.7.1 Round-Bottom Flask. One liter, three-neck glass round-bottom flask for cleaning PEG. Standard taper 24/40 joints are mounted on each neck.
6.1.7.2 Heating Mantle. Capable of heating contents of the 1-L flask to 120 °C (248 °F).
6.1.7.3 Nitrogen Bubbler. Teflon ® or glass tube, 0.25 in OD (6.35 mm).
6.1.7.4 Temperature Sensor. Partial immersion glass thermometer.
6.1.7.5 Hose Adapter. Glass with 24/40 standard tapered joint.
6.2 Volatile Organic Recovery System.
6.2.1 Splitter Valve (Optional). Stainless steel cross-pattern valve capable of splitting nominal flow rates from the purge flow of 6 L/min (0.2 ft
3
/min). The valve shall be maintained at 75 + 2 °C (167 ±3.6 °F) in the heated zone and shall be placed downstream of the coalescing filter. It is recommended that 0.125 in OD (3.175 mm) tubing be used to direct the split vent flow from the heated zone. The back pressure caused by the 0.125 in OD (3.175 mm) tubing is critical for maintaining proper split valve operation.

# Note:
The splitter valve design is optional; it may be used in cases where the concentration of a pollutant would saturate the adsorbents.
6.2.2 Injection Port. Stainless steel
1/4
in OD (6.35 mm) compression fitting tee with a 6 mm (0.2 in) septum fixed on the top port. The injection port is the point of entry for the recovery study solution. If using a gaseous standard to determine recovery efficiency, connect the gaseous standard to the injection port of the tee.
6.2.3 Knockout Trap (Optional but Recommended). A 25 mL capacity glass reservoir body with a full-stem impinger (to avoid leaks, a modified midget glass impinger with a screw cap and ball/socket clamps on the inlet and outlet is recommended). The empty
impinger is placed in an ice water bath between the injection port and the sorbent cartridge. Its purpose is to reduce the water content of the purge gas (saturated at 75 °C (167 °F)) before the sorbent cartridge.
6.2.4 Insulated Ice Bath. A 350 mL dewar or other type of insulated bath is used to maintain ice water around the knockout trap.
6.2.5 Sorbent Cartridges. Commercially available glass or stainless steel cartridge packed with one or more appropriate sorbents. The amount of adsorbent packed in the cartridge depends on the breakthrough volume of the test compounds but is limited by back pressure caused by the packing (not to exceed 7 psig). More than one sorbent cartridge placed in series may be necessary depending upon the mixture of the measured components.
6.2.6 Volumetric Glassware. Type A glass 10 mL volumetric flasks for measuring a final volume from the water catch in the knockout trap.
6.2.7 Thermal Desorption Unit. A clam-shell type oven, used for the desorption of direct thermal desorption sorbent tubes. The oven shall be capable of increasing the temperature of the desorption tubes rapidly to recommended desorption temperature.
6.2.8 Ultrasonic Bath. Small bath used to agitate sorbent material and desorption solvent. Ice water shall be used in the bath because of heat transfer caused by operation of the bath.
6.2.9 Desorption Vials. Four-dram (15 mL) capacity borosilicate glass vials with Teflon-lined caps.
6.3 Analytical System. A gas chromatograph (GC) is commonly used to separate and quantify compounds from the sample collection and recovery procedure. Method 18 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A) may be used as a guideline for determining the appropriate GC column and GC detector based on the test compounds to be determined. Other types of analytical instrumentation may be used (HPLC) in lieu of GC systems as long as the recovery efficiency criteria of this method are met.
6.3.1 Gas Chromatograph (GC). The GC shall be equipped with a constant-temperature liquid injection port or a heated sampling loop/valve system, as appropriate. The GC oven shall be temperature-programmable over the useful range of the GC column. The choice of detectors is based on the test compounds to be determined.
6.3.2 GC Column. Select the appropriate GC column based on (1) literature review or previous experience, (2) polarity of the analytes, (3) capacity of the column, or (4) resolving power (
e.g.,
length, diameter, film thickness) required.
6.3.3 Data System. A programmable electronic integrator for recording, analyzing, and storing the signal generated by the detector.

# 7.0 Reagents and Standards
7.1 Method 25D Purge Apparatus.
7.1.1 Polyethylene Glycol (PEG). Ninety-eight percent pure organic polymer with an average molecular weight of 400 g/mol. Volatile organics are removed from the PEG prior to use by heating to 120 ±5 °C (248 ±9 °F) and purging with pure nitrogen at 1 L/min (0.04 ft
3
/min) for 2 hours. After purging and heating, the PEG is maintained at room temperature under a nitrogen purge maintained at 1 L/min (0.04 ft
3
/min) until used. A typical apparatus used to clean the PEG is shown in Figure 305-3.
7.1.2 Water. Organic-free deionized water is required.
7.1.3 Nitrogen. High-purity nitrogen (less than 0.5 ppm total hydrocarbons) is used to remove test compounds from the purge matrix. The source of nitrogen shall be regulated continuously to 40 psig before the on/off toggle valve.
7.2 Volatile Organic Recovery System.
7.2.1 Water. Organic-free deionized water is required.
7.2.2 Desorption Solvent (when used). Appropriate high-purity (99.99 percent) solvent for desorption shall be used. Analysis shall be performed (utilizing the same analytical technique as that used in the analysis of the waste samples) on each lot to determine purity.
7.3 Analytical System. The gases required for GC operation shall be of the highest obtainable purity (hydrocarbon free). Consult the operating manual for recommended settings.

# 8.0 Sample Collection, Preservation, Storage, and Transport
8.1 Assemble the glassware and associated fittings (see Figures 305-3 and 305-4, as appropriate) and leak-check the system (approximately 7 psig is the target pressure). After an initial leak check, mark the pressure gauge and use the initial checkpoint to monitor for leaks throughout subsequent analyses. If the pressure in the system drops below the target pressure at any time during analysis, that analysis shall be considered invalid.
8.2 Recovery Efficiency Determination. Determine the individual recovery efficiency (RE) for each of the target compounds in duplicate before the waste samples are analyzed. To determine the RE, generate a water blank (Section 11.1) and use the injection port to introduce a known volume of spike solution (or certified gaseous standard) containing all of the target compounds at the levels expected in the waste sample. Introduce the spike solution immediately after the nitrogen purge has been started (Section
8.3.2). Follow the procedures outlined in Section 8.3.3. Analyze the recovery efficiency samples using the techniques described in Section 11.2. Determine the recovery efficiency (Equation 305-1, Section 12.2) by comparing the amount of compound recovered to the theoretical amount spiked. Determine the RE twice for each compound; the relative standard deviation, (RSD) shall be ≤10 percent for each compound. If the RSD for any compound is not ≤10 percent, modify the sampling/analytical procedure and complete an RE study in duplicate, or continue determining RE until the RSD meets the acceptable criteria. The average RE shall be 0.70 ≤RE ≤1.30 for each compound. If the average RE does not meet these criteria, an alternative sample collection and/or analysis technique shall be developed and the recovery efficiency determination shall be repeated for that compound until the criteria are met for every target compound. Example modifications of the sampling/analytical system include changing the adsorbent material, changing the desorption solvent, utilizing direct thermal desorption of test compounds from the sorbent tubes, utilizing another analytical technique.
8.3 Sample Collection and Recovery.
8.3.1 The sample collection procedure in Method 25D shall be used to collect (into a preweighed vial) 10 g of waste into PEG, cool, and ship to the laboratory. Remove the sample container from the cooler and wipe the exterior to remove any ice or water. Weigh the container and sample to the nearest 0.01 g and record the weight. Pour the sample from the container into the purge flask. Rinse the sample container three times with approximately 6 mL of PEG (or the volume needed to total 50 mL of PEG in the purge flask), transferring the rinses to the purge flask. Add 50 mL of organic-free deionized water to the purge flask. Cap the purge flask tightly in between each rinse and after adding all the components into the flask.
8.3.2 Allow the oven to equilibrate to 75 ±2 °C (167 ±3.6 °F). Begin the sample recovery process by turning the toggle valve on, thus allowing a 6 L/min flow of pure nitrogen through the purge chamber.
8.3.3 Stop the purge after 30 min. Immediately remove the sorbent tube(s) from the apparatus and cap both ends. Remove the knockout trap and transfer the water catch to a 10 mL volumetric flask. Rinse the trap with organic-free deionized water and transfer the rinse to the volumetric flask. Dilute to the 10 mL mark with water. Transfer the water sample to a sample vial and store at 4 °C (39.2 °F) with zero headspace. The analysis of the contents of the water knockout trap is optional for this method. If the target compounds are water soluble, analysis of the water is recommended; meeting the recovery efficiency criteria in these cases would be difficult without adding the amount captured in the knockout trap.

# 9.0 Quality Control
9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.
Section
Quality control measure
Effect
8.1
Sampling equipment leak-check
Ensures accurate measurement of sample volume.
8.2
Recovery efficiency (RE) determination for each measured compound.
Ensures accurate sample collection and analysis.
8.3
Calibration of analytical instrument with at least 3 calibration standards.
Ensures linear measurement of compounds over the instrument span.

# 10.0 Calibration and Standardization
10.1 The analytical instrument shall be calibrated with a minimum of three levels of standards for each compound whose concentrations bracket the concentration of test compounds from the sorbent tubes. Liquid calibration standards shall be used for calibration in the analysis of the solvent extracts. The liquid calibration standards shall be prepared in the desorption solvent matrix. The calibration standards may be prepared and injected individually or as a mixture. If thermal desorption and focusing (onto another sorbent or cryogen focusing) are used, a certified gaseous mixture or a series of gaseous standards shall be used for calibration of the instrument. The gaseous standards shall be focused and analyzed in the same manner as the samples.
10.2 The analytical system shall be certified free from contaminants before a calibration is performed (see Section 11.1). The calibration standards are used to determine the linearity of the analytical system. Perform an initial calibration and linearity check by analyzing the three calibration standards for each target compound in triplicate starting with the lowest level and continuing to the highest level. If the triplicate analyses do not agree within 5 percent of their average, additional analyses will be needed until the 5 percent criteria is met. Calculate the response factor (Equation 305-3, Section 12.4) from the average area counts of the injections for each concentration level. Average the response factors of the standards for each compound. The linearity of the detector is acceptable if the response
factor of each compound at a particular concentration is within 10 percent of the overall mean response factor for that compound. Analyze daily a mid-level calibration standard in duplicate and calculate a new response factor. Compare the daily response factor average to the average response factor calculated for the mid-level calibration during the initial linearity check; repeat the three-level calibration procedure if the daily average response factor differs from the initial linearity check mid-level response factor by more than 10 percent. Otherwise, proceed with the sample analysis.

# 11.0 Analytical Procedure
11.1 Water Blank Analysis. A water blank shall be analyzed daily to determine the cleanliness of the purge and recovery system. A water blank is generated by adding 60 mL of organic-free deionized water to 50 mL of PEG in the purge chamber. Treat the blank as described in Sections 8.3.2 and 8.3.3. The purpose of the water blank is to insure that no contaminants exist in the sampling and analytical apparatus which would interfere with the quantitation of the target compounds. If contaminants are present, locate the source of contamination, remove it, and repeat the water blank analysis.
11.2 Sample Analysis. Sample analysis in the context of this method refers to techniques to remove the target compounds from the sorbent tubes, separate them using a chromatography technique, and quantify them with an appropriate detector. Two types of sample extraction techniques typically used for sorbents include solvent desorption or direct thermal desorption of test compounds to a secondary focusing unit (either sorbent or cryogen based). The test compounds are then typically transferred to a GC system for analysis. Other analytical systems may be used (e.g., HPLC) in lieu of GC systems as long as the recovery efficiency criteria of this method are met.
11.2.1 Recover the test compounds from the sorbent tubes that require solvent desorption by transferring the adsorbent material to a sample vial containing the desorption solvent. The desorption solvent shall be the same as the solvent used to prepare calibration standards. The volume of solvent depends on the amount of adsorbed material to be desorbed (1.0 mL per 100 mg of adsorbent material) and also on the amount of test compounds present. Final volume adjustment and or dilution can be made so that the concentration of test compounds in the desorption solvent is bracketed by the concentration of the calibration solutions. Ultrasonicate the desorption solvent for 15 min in an ice bath. Allow the sample to sit for a period of time so that the adsorbent material can settle to the bottom of the vial. Transfer the solvent with a pasteur pipet (minimizing the amount of adsorbent material taken) to another vial and store at 4 °C (39.2 °F).
11.2.2 Analyze the desorption solvent or direct thermal desorption tubes from each sample using the same analytical parameters used for the calibration standard. Calculate the total weight detected for each compound (Equation 305-4, Section 12.5). The slope (area/amount) and y-intercept are calculated from the line bracketed between the two closest calibration points. Correct the concentration of each waste sample with the appropriate recovery efficiency factor and the split flow ratio (if used). The final concentration of each individual test compound is calculated by dividing the corrected measured weight for that compound by the weight of the original sample determined in Section 8.3.1 (Equation 305-5, Section 12.6).
11.2.3 Repeat the analysis for the three samples collected in Section 8.3. Report the corrected concentration of each of the waste samples, average waste concentration, and relative standard deviation (Equation 305-6, Section 12.7).

# 12.0 Data Analysis and Calculations.
12.1 Nomenclature.
A
S
= Mean area counts of test compound in standard.
A
U
= Mean area counts of test compound in sample desorption solvent.
b = Y-intercept of the line formed between the two closest calibration standards that bracket the concentration of the sample.
C
T
= Amount of test compound (µg) in calibration standard.
C
F
= Correction for adjusting final amount of sample detected for losses during individual sample runs.
F
P
= Nitrogen flow through the purge chamber (6 L/min).
F
S
= Nitrogen split flow directed to the sample recovery system (use 6 L/min if split flow design was not used).
PPM = Final concentration of test compound in waste sample [µg/g (which is equivalent to parts per million by weight (ppmw))].
RE = Recovery efficiency for adjusting final amount of sample detected for losses due to inefficient trapping and desorption techniques.
R.F. = Response factor for test compound, calculated from a calibration standard.
S = Slope of the line (area counts/C
T
) formed between two closest calibration points that bracket the concentration of the sample.
W
C
= Weight of test compound expected to be recovered in spike solution based on theoretical amount (µg).
W
E
= Weight of vial and PEG (g).
W
F
= Weight of vial, PEG and waste sample (g).
W
S
= Weight of original waste sample (g).
W
T
= Corrected weight of test compound measured (µg) in sample.
W
X
= Weight of test compound measured during analysis of recovery efficiency spike samples (µg).
12.2 Recovery efficiency for determining trapping/desorption efficiency of individual test compounds in the spike solution, decimal value.
ER17OC00.563
12.3 Weight of waste sample (g).
ER17OC00.564
12.4 Response factor for individual test compounds.
ER17OC00.565
12.5 Corrected weight of a test compound in the sample, in µg.
ER17OC00.566
12.6 Final concentration of a test compound in the sample in ppmw.
ER17OC00.567
12.7 Relative standard deviation (RSD) calculation.
ER17OC00.568

# 13.0 Method Performance
[Reserved]

# 14.0 Pollution Prevention
[Reserved]

# 15.0 Waste Management
[Reserved]

# 16.0 References
[Reserved]

# 17.0 Tables, Diagrams, Flowcharts, and Validation Data
ER17OC00.569
ER17OC00.570
ER17OC00.571
ER17OC00.572

# Method 306—Determination of Chromium Emissions From Decorative and Hard Chromium Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Operations—Isokinetic Method

# Note:
This method does not include all of the specifications (
e.g.,
equipment and supplies) and procedures (
e.g.,
sampling and analytical) essential to its performance. Some material is incorporated by reference from other methods in 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A. Therefore, to obtain reliable results, persons using this method should have a thorough knowledge of at least Method 5.

# 1.0 Scope and Application
1.1 Analytes.
Analyte
CAS No.
Sensitivity
Chromium
7440-47-3
See Sec. 13.2.
1.2 Applicability. This method applies to the determination of chromium (Cr) in emissions from decorative and hard chrome electroplating facilities, chromium anodizing operations, and continuous chromium plating operations at iron and steel facilities.
1.3 Data Quality Objectives. [Reserved]

# 2.0 Summary of Method
2.1 Sampling. An emission sample is extracted isokinetically from the source using an unheated Method 5 sampling train (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A), with a glass nozzle and probe liner, but with the filter omitted. The sample time shall be at least two hours. The Cr emissions are collected in an alkaline solution containing 0.1 N sodium hydroxide (NaOH) or 0.1 N sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO
3
). The collected samples are recovered using an alkaline solution and are then transported to the laboratory for analysis.
2.2 Analysis.
2.2.1 Total chromium samples with high chromium concentrations (≥35 µg/L) may be analyzed using inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometry (ICP) at 267.72 nm.

# Note:
The ICP analysis is applicable for this method only when the solution analyzed has a Cr concentration greater than or equal to 35 µg/L or five times the method detection limit as determined according to appendix B in 40 CFR part 136. Similarly, inductively coupled plasma-mass spectroscopy (ICP-MS)
may be used for total chromium analysis provided the procedures for ICP-MS analysis described in Method 6020 or 6020A (EPA Office of Solid Waste, publication SW-846) are followed.
2.2.2 Alternatively, when lower total chromium concentrations (
35 µg/L) are encountered, a portion of the alkaline sample solution may be digested with nitric acid and analyzed by graphite furnace atomic absorption spectroscopy (GFAAS) at 357.9 nm.
2.2.3 If it is desirable to determine hexavalent chromium (Cr
+6
) emissions, the samples may be analyzed using an ion chromatograph equipped with a post-column reactor (IC/PCR) and a visible wavelength detector. To increase sensitivity for trace levels of Cr
+6
, a preconcentration system may be used in conjunction with the IC/PCR.

# 3.0 Definitions
3.1
Total Chromium
—measured chromium content that includes both major chromium oxidation states (Cr
+3
, Cr
+3
).
3.2
May
—Implies an optional operation.
3.3
Digestion
—The analytical operation involving the complete (or nearly complete) dissolution of the sample in order to ensure the complete solubilization of the element (analyte) to be measured.
3.4
Interferences
—Physical, chemical, or spectral phenomena that may produce a high or low bias in the analytical result.
3.5
Analytical System
—All components of the analytical process including the sample digestion and measurement apparatus.
3.6
Sample Recovery
—The quantitative transfer of sample from the collection apparatus to the sample preparation (digestion, etc.) apparatus. This term should not be confused with analytical recovery.
3.7
Matrix Modifier
—A chemical modification to the sample during GFAAS determinations to ensure that the analyte is not lost during the measurement process (prior to the atomization stage)
3.8
Calibration Reference Standards
—Quality control standards used to check the accuracy of the instrument calibration curve prior to sample analysis.
3.9
Continuing Check Standard
—Quality control standards used to verify that unacceptable drift in the measurement system has not occurred.
3.10
Calibration Blank
—A blank used to verify that there has been no unacceptable shift in the baseline either immediately following calibration or during the course of the analytical measurement.
3.11
Interference Check
—An analytical/measurement operation that ascertains whether a measurable interference in the sample exists.
3.12
Interelement Correction Factors
—Factors used to correct for interfering elements that produce a false signal (high bias).
3.13
Duplicate Sample Analysis
—Either the repeat measurement of a single solution or the measurement of duplicate preparations of the same sample. It is important to be aware of which approach is required for a particular type of measurement. For example, no digestion is required for the ICP determination and the duplicate instrument measurement is therefore adequate whereas duplicate digestion/instrument measurements are required for GFAAS.
3.14
Matrix Spiking
—Analytical spikes that have been added to the actual sample matrix either before (Section 9.2.5.2) or after (Section 9.1.6). Spikes added to the sample
prior
to a preparation technique (
e.g.,
digestion) allow for the assessment of an overall method accuracy while those added
after
only provide for the
measurement
accuracy determination.

# 4.0 Interferences
4.1 ICP Interferences.
4.1.1 ICP Spectral Interferences. Spectral interferences are caused by: overlap of a spectral line from another element; unresolved overlap of molecular band spectra; background contribution from continuous or recombination phenomena; and, stray light from the line emission of high-concentrated elements. Spectral overlap may be compensated for by correcting the raw data with a computer and measuring the interfering element. At the 267.72 nm Cr analytical wavelength, iron, manganese, and uranium are potential interfering elements. Background and stray light interferences can usually be compensated for by a background correction adjacent to the analytical line. Unresolved overlap requires the selection of an alternative chromium wavelength. Consult the instrument manufacturer's operation manual for interference correction procedures.
4.1.2 ICP Physical Interferences. High levels of dissolved solids in the samples may cause significant inaccuracies due to salt buildup at the nebulizer and torch tips. This problem can be controlled by diluting the sample or by extending the rinse times between sample analyses. Standards shall be prepared in the same solution matrix as the samples (
i.e.,
0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO
3
).
4.1.3 ICP Chemical Interferences. These include molecular compound formation, ionization effects and solute vaporization effects, and are usually not significant in the ICP procedure, especially if the standards and samples are matrix matched.
4.2 GFAAS Interferences.
4.2.1 GFAAS Chemical Interferences. Low concentrations of calcium and/or phosphate may cause interferences; at concentrations above 200 µg/L, calcium's effect is constant
and eliminates the effect of phosphate. Calcium nitrate is therefore added to the concentrated analyte to ensure a known constant effect. Other matrix modifiers recommended by the instrument manufacturer may also be considered.
4.2.2 GFAAS Cyanide Band Interferences. Nitrogen should not be used as the purge gas due to cyanide band interference.
4.2.3 GFAAS Spectral Interferences. Background correction may be required because of possible significant levels of nonspecific absorption and scattering at the 357.9 nm analytical wavelength.
4.2.4 GFAAS Background Interferences. Zeeman or Smith-Hieftje background correction is recommended for interferences resulting from high levels of dissolved solids in the alkaline impinger solutions.
4.3 IC/PCR Interferences.
4.3.1 IC/PCR Chemical Interferences. Components in the sample matrix may cause Cr
+6
to convert to trivalent chromium (Cr
+3
) or cause Cr
+3
to convert to Cr
+6
. The chromatographic separation of Cr
+6
using ion chromatography reduces the potential for other metals to interfere with the post column reaction. For the IC/PCR analysis, only compounds that coelute with Cr
+6
and affect the diphenylcarbazide reaction will cause interference.
4.3.2 IC/PCR Background Interferences. Periodic analyses of reagent water blanks are used to demonstrate that the analytical system is essentially free of contamination. Sample cross-contamination can occur when high-level and low-level samples or standards are analyzed alternately and can be eliminated by thorough purging of the sample loop. Purging of the sample can easily be achieved by increasing the injection volume to ten times the size of the sample loop.

# 5.0 Safety
5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.
5.2 Hexavalent chromium compounds have been listed as carcinogens although chromium (III) compounds show little or no toxicity. Chromium can be a skin and respiratory irritant.

# 6.0 Equipment and Supplies
6.1 Sampling Train.
6.1.1 A schematic of the sampling train used in this method is shown in Figure 306-1. The train is the same as shown in Method 5, Section 6.0 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A) except that the probe liner is unheated, the particulate filter is omitted, and quartz or borosilicate glass must be used for the probe nozzle and liner in place of stainless steel.
6.1.2 Probe fittings of plastic such as Teflon, polypropylene, etc. are recommended over metal fittings to prevent contamination. If desired, a single combined probe nozzle and liner may be used, but such a single glass assembly is not a requirement of this methodology.
6.1.3 Use 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO
3
in the impingers in place of water.
6.1.4 Operating and maintenance procedures for the sampling train are described in APTD-0576 of Method 5. Users should read the APTD-0576 document and adopt the outlined procedures. Alternative mercury-free thermometers may be used if the thermometers are, at a minimum, equivalent in terms of performance or suitably effective for the specific temperature measurement application.
6.1.5 Similar collection systems which have been approved by the Administrator may be used.
6.2 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, [40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A], with the following exceptions:
6.2.1 Probe-Liner and Probe-Nozzle Brushes. Brushes are not necessary for sample recovery. If a probe brush is used, it must be non-metallic.
6.2.2 Sample Recovery Solution. Use 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO
3
, whichever is used as the impinger absorbing solution, in place of acetone to recover the sample.
6.2.3 Sample Storage Containers. Polyethylene, with leak-free screw cap, 250 mL, 500 mL or 1,000 mL.
6.3 Analysis.
6.3.1 General. For analysis, the following equipment is needed.
6.3.1.1 Phillips Beakers. (Phillips beakers are preferred, but regular beakers may also be used.)
6.3.1.2 Hot Plate.
6.3.1.3 Volumetric Flasks. Class A, various sizes as appropriate.
6.3.1.4 Assorted Pipettes.
6.3.2 Analysis by ICP.
6.3.2.1 ICP Spectrometer. Computer-controlled emission spectrometer with background correction and radio frequency generator.
6.3.2.2 Argon Gas Supply. Welding grade or better.
6.3.3 Analysis by GFAAS.
6.3.3.1 Chromium Hollow Cathode Lamp or Electrodeless Discharge Lamp.
6.3.3.2 Graphite Furnace Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer.
6.3.3.3 Furnace Autosampler.
6.3.4 Analysis by IC/PCR.
6.3.4.1 IC/PCR System. High performance liquid chromatograph pump, sample injection valve, post-column reagent delivery and
mixing system, and a visible detector, capable of operating at 520 nm-540 nm, all with a non-metallic (or inert) flow path. An electronic peak area mode is recommended, but other recording devices and integration techniques are acceptable provided the repeatability criteria and the linearity criteria for the calibration curve described in Section 10.4 can be satisfied. A sample loading system is required if preconcentration is employed.
6.3.4.2 Analytical Column. A high performance ion chromatograph (HPIC) non-metallic column with anion separation characteristics and a high loading capacity designed for separation of metal chelating compounds to prevent metal interference. Resolution described in Section 11.6 must be obtained. A non-metallic guard column with the same ion-exchange material is recommended.
6.3.4.3 Preconcentration Column (for older instruments). An HPIC non-metallic column with acceptable anion retention characteristics and sample loading rates must be used as described in Section 11.6.
6.3.4.4 Filtration Apparatus for IC/PCR.
6.3.4.4.1 Teflon, or equivalent, filter holder to accommodate 0.45-µm acetate, or equivalent, filter, if needed to remove insoluble particulate matter.
6.3.4.4.2 0.45-µm Filter Cartridge. For the removal of insoluble material. To be used just prior to sample injection/analysis.

# 7.0 Reagents and Standards

# Note:
Unless otherwise indicated, all reagents should conform to the specifications established by the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society (ACS reagent grade). Where such specifications are not available, use the best available grade. Reagents should be checked by the appropriate analysis prior to field use to assure that contamination is below the analytical detection limit for the ICP or GFAAS total chromium analysis; and that contamination is below the analytical detection limit for Cr
+6
using IC/PCR for direct injection or, if selected, preconcentration.
7.1 Sampling.
7.1.1 Water. Reagent water that conforms to ASTM Specification D1193-77 or 91 Type II (incorporated by reference see § 63.14). All references to water in the method refer to reagent water unless otherwise specified. It is recommended that water blanks be checked prior to preparing the sampling reagents to ensure that the Cr content is less than three (3) times the anticipated detection limit of the analytical method.
7.1.2 Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH) Absorbing Solution, 0.1 N. Dissolve 4.0 g of sodium hydroxide in 1 liter of water to obtain a pH of approximately 8.5.
7.1.3 Sodium Bicarbonate (NaHCO
3
) Absorbing Solution, 0.1 N. Dissolve approximately 8.5 g of sodium bicarbonate in 1 liter of water to obtain a pH of approximately 8.3.
7.1.4 Chromium Contamination.
7.1.4.1 The absorbing solution shall not exceed the QC criteria noted in Section 7.1.1 (≤3 times the instrument detection limit).
7.1.4.2 When the Cr
+6
content in the field samples exceeds the blank concentration by at least a factor of ten (10), Cr
+6
blank concentrations ≥10 times the detection limit will be allowed.

# Note:
At sources with high concentrations of acids and/or SO
2
, the concentration of NaOH or NaHCO
3
should be ≥0.5 N to insure that the pH of the solution remains at or above 8.5 for NaOH and 8.0 for NaHCO
3
during and after sampling.
7.1.5 Silica Gel. Same as in Method 5.
7.2 Sample Recovery.
7.2.1 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO
3
. Use the same solution for the sample recovery that is used for the impinger absorbing solution.
7.2.2 pH Indicator Strip, for IC/PCR. pH indicator capable of determining the pH of solutions between the pH range of 7 and 12, at 0.5 pH increments.
7.3 Sample Preparation and Analysis.
7.3.1 Nitric Acid (HNO
3
), Concentrated, for GFAAS. Trace metals grade or better HNO
3
must be used for reagent preparation. The ACS reagent grade HNO
3
is acceptable for cleaning glassware.
7.3.2 HNO
3
, 1.0% (v/v), for GFAAS. Prepare, by slowly stirring, 10 mL of concentrated HNO
3
) into 800 mL of reagent water. Dilute to 1,000 mL with reagent water. The solution shall contain less than 0.001 mg Cr/L.
7.3.3 Calcium Nitrate Ca(NO
3
)
2
Solution (10 µg Ca/mL) for GFAAS analysis. Prepare the solution by weighing 40.9 mg of Ca(NO
3
)
2
into a 1 liter volumetric flask. Dilute with reagent water to 1 liter.
7.3.4 Matrix Modifier, for GFAAS. See instrument manufacturer's manual for suggested matrix modifier.
7.3.5 Chromatographic Eluent, for IC/PCR. The eluent used in the analytical system is ammonium sulfate based.
7.3.5.1 Prepare by adding 6.5 mL of 29 percent ammonium hydroxide (NH
4
OH) and 33 g of ammonium sulfate ((NH
4
)
2
SO
4
) to 500 mL of reagent water. Dilute to 1 liter with reagent water and mix well.
7.3.5.2 Other combinations of eluents and/or columns may be employed provided peak resolution, repeatability, linearity, and analytical sensitivity as described in Sections 9.3 and 11.6 are acceptable.
7.3.6 Post-Column Reagent, for IC/PCR. An effective post-column reagent for use with the chromatographic eluent described in Section 7.3.5 is a diphenylcarbazide (DPC)-based system. Dissolve 0.5 g of 1,5-
diphenylcarbazide in 100 mL of ACS grade methanol. Add 500 mL of reagent water containing 50 mL of 96 percent spectrophotometric grade sulfuric acid. Dilute to 1 liter with reagent water.
7.3.7 Chromium Standard Stock Solution (1000 mg/L). Procure a certified aqueous standard or dissolve 2.829 g of potassium dichromate (K
2
Cr
2
O
7
), in reagent water and dilute to 1 liter.
7.3.8 Calibration Standards for ICP or IC/PCR. Prepare calibration standards for ICP or IC/PCR by diluting the Cr standard stock solution (Section 7.3.7) with 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO
3
, whichever is used as the impinger absorbing solution, to achieve a matrix similar to the actual field samples. Suggested levels are 0, 50, 100, and 200 µg Cr/L for ICP, and 0, 1, 5, and 10 µg Cr
+6
/L for IC/PCR.
7.3.9 Calibration Standards for GFAAS. Chromium solutions for GFAAS calibration shall contain 1.0 percent (v/v) HNO
3
. The zero standard shall be 1.0 percent (v/v) HNO
3
. Calibration standards should be prepared daily by diluting the Cr standard stock solution (Section 7.3.7) with 1.0 percent HNO
3
. Use at least four standards to make the calibration curve. Suggested levels are 0, 10, 50, and 100 µg Cr/L.
7.4 Glassware Cleaning Reagents.
7.4.1 HNO
3
, Concentrated. ACS reagent grade or equivalent.
7.4.2 Water. Reagent water that conforms to ASTM Specification D1193-77 or 91 Type II.
7.4.3 HNO
3
, 10 percent (v/v). Add by stirring 500 mL of concentrated HNO
3
into a flask containing approximately 4,000 mL of reagent water. Dilute to 5,000 mL with reagent water. Mix well. The reagent shall contain less than 2 µg Cr/L.

# 8.0 Sample Collection, Preservation, Holding Times, Storage, and Transport

# Note:
Prior to sample collection, consideration should be given to the type of analysis (Cr
+6
or total Cr) that will be performed. Which analysis option(s) will be performed will determine which sample recovery and storage procedures will be required to process the sample.
8.1 Sample Collection. Same as Method 5 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A), with the following exceptions.
8.1.1 Omit the particulate filter and filter holder from the sampling train. Use a glass nozzle and probe liner instead of stainless steel. Do not heat the probe. Place 100 mL of 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO
3
in each of the first two impingers, and record the data for each run on a data sheet such as shown in Figure 306-2.
8.1.2 Clean all glassware prior to sampling in hot soapy water designed for laboratory cleaning of glassware. Next, rinse the glassware three times with tap water, followed by three additional rinses with reagent water. Then soak the glassware in 10% (v/v) HNO
3
solution for a minimum of 4 hours, rinse three times with reagent water, and allow to air dry. Cover all glassware openings where contamination can occur with Parafilm, or equivalent, until the sampling train is assembled for sampling.
8.1.3 Train Operation. Follow the basic procedures outlined in Method 5 in conjunction with the following instructions. Train sampling rate shall not exceed 0.030 m
3
/min (1.0 cfm) during a run.
8.2 Sample Recovery. Follow the basic procedures of Method 5, with the exceptions noted.
8.2.1 A particulate filter is not recovered from this train.
8.2.2 Tester shall select either the total Cr or Cr
+6
sample recovery option.
8.2.3 Samples to be analyzed for both total Cr and Cr
+6
, shall be recovered using the Cr
+6
sample option (Section 8.2.6).
8.2.4 A field reagent blank shall be collected for either of the Cr or the Cr
+6
analysis. If both analyses (Cr and Cr
+6
) are to be conducted on the samples, collect separate reagent blanks for each analysis.

# Note:
Since particulate matter is not usually present at chromium electroplating and/or chromium anodizing operations, it is not necessary to filter the Cr
+6
samples unless there is observed sediment in the collected solutions. If it is necessary to filter the Cr
+6
solutions, please refer to Method 0061, Determination of Hexavalent Chromium Emissions From Stationary Sources, Section 7.4, Sample Preparation in SW-846 (see Reference 1).
8.2.5 Total Cr Sample Option.
8.2.5.1 Container No. 1. Measure the volume of the liquid in the first, second, and third impingers and quantitatively transfer into a labeled sample container.
8.2.5.2 Use approximately 200 to 300 mL of the 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO
3
absorbing solution to rinse the probe nozzle, probe liner, three impingers, and connecting glassware; add this rinse to Container No. 1.
8.2.6 Cr
+6
Sample Option.
8.2.6.1 Container No. 1. Measure and record the pH of the absorbing solution contained in the
first
impinger at the end of the sampling run using a pH indicator strip. The pH of the solution must be ≥8.5 for NaOH and ≥8.0 for NaHCO
3
. If it is not, discard the collected sample, increase the normality of the NaOH or NaHCO
3
impinger absorbing solution to 0.5 N or to a solution normality approved by the Administrator and collect another air emission sample.
8.2.6.2 After determining the pH of the first impinger solution, combine and measure the volume of the liquid in the first, second, and third impingers and quantitatively transfer into the labeled sample container.
Use approximately 200 to 300 mL of the 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO
3
absorbing solution to rinse the probe nozzle, probe liner, three impingers, and connecting glassware; add this rinse to Container No. 1.
8.2.7 Field Reagent Blank.
8.2.7.1 Container No. 2.
8.2.7.2 Place approximately 500 mL of the 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO
3
absorbing solution into a labeled sample container.
8.3 Sample Preservation, Storage, and Transport.
8.3.1 Total Cr Sample Option. Samples to be analyzed for total Cr need not be refrigerated.
8.3.2 Cr
+6
Sample Option. Samples to be analyzed for Cr
+6
must be shipped and stored at 4 °C. Allow Cr
+6
samples to return to ambient temperature prior to analysis.
8.4 Sample Holding Times.
8.4.1 Total Cr Sample Option. Samples to be analyzed for total Cr shall be analyzed within 60 days of collection.
8.4.2 Cr
+6
Sample Option. Samples to be analyzed for Cr
+6
shall be analyzed within 14 days of collection.

# 9.0 Quality Control
9.1 ICP Quality Control.
9.1.1 ICP Calibration Reference Standards. Prepare a calibration reference standard using the same alkaline matrix as the calibration standards; it should be at least 10 times the instrumental detection limit.
9.1.1.1 This reference standard must be prepared from a different Cr stock solution source than that used for preparation of the calibration curve standards.
9.1.1.2 Prior to sample analysis, analyze at least one reference standard.
9.1.1.3 The calibration reference standard must be measured within 10 percent of it's true value for the curve to be considered valid.
9.1.1.4 The curve must be validated before sample analyses are performed.
9.1.2 ICP Continuing Check Standard.
9.1.2.1 Perform analysis of the check standard with the field samples as described in Section 11.2 (at least after every 10 samples, and at the end of the analytical run).
9.1.2.2 The check standard can either be the mid-range calibration standard or the reference standard. The results of the check standard shall agree within 10 percent of the expected value; if not, terminate the analyses, correct the problem, recalibrate the instrument, and rerun all samples analyzed subsequent to the last acceptable check standard analysis.
9.1.3 ICP Calibration Blank.
9.1.3.1 Perform analysis of the calibration blank with the field samples as described in Section 11.2 (at least after every 10 samples, and at the end of the analytical run).
9.1.3.2 The results of the calibration blank shall agree within three standard deviations of the mean blank value. If not, analyze the calibration blank two more times and average the results. If the average is not within three standard deviations of the background mean, terminate the analyses, correct the problem, recalibrate, and reanalyze all samples analyzed subsequent to the last acceptable calibration blank analysis.
9.1.4 ICP Interference Check. Prepare an interference check solution that contains known concentrations of interfering elements that will provide an adequate test of the correction factors in the event of potential spectral interferences.
9.1.4.1 Two potential interferences, iron and manganese, may be prepared as 1000 µg/mL and 200 µg/mL solutions, respectively. The solutions should be prepared in dilute HNO
3
(1-5 percent). Particular care must be used to ensure that the solutions and/or salts used to prepare the solutions are of ICP grade purity (
i.e.,
that no measurable Cr contamination exists in the salts/solutions). Commercially prepared interfering element check standards are available.
9.1.4.2 Verify the interelement correction factors every three months by analyzing the interference check solution. The correction factors are calculated according to the instrument manufacturer's directions. If the interelement correction factors are used properly, no false Cr should be detected.
9.1.4.3 Negative results with an absolute value greater than three (3) times the detection limit are usually the results of the background correction position being set incorrectly. Scan the spectral region to ensure that the correction position has not been placed on an interfering peak.
9.1.5 ICP Duplicate Sample Analysis. Perform one duplicate sample analysis for each compliance sample batch (3 runs).
9.1.5.1 As there is no sample preparation required for the ICP analysis, a duplicate analysis is defined as a repeat analysis of one of the field samples. The selected sample shall be analyzed using the same procedures that were used to analyze the original sample.
9.1.5.2 Duplicate sample analyses shall agree within 10 percent of the original measurement value.
9.1.5.3 Report the original analysis value for the sample and report the duplicate analysis value as the QC check value. If agreement is not achieved, perform the duplicate analysis again. If agreement is not achieved the second time, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem before analyzing the sample for a third time.
9.1.6 ICP Matrix Spiking. Spiked samples shall be prepared and analyzed daily to ensure that there are no matrix effects, that samples and standards have been matrix-matched, and that the laboratory equipment is operating properly.
9.1.6.1 Spiked sample recovery analyses should indicate a recovery for the Cr spike of between 75 and 125 percent.
9.1.6.2 Cr levels in the spiked sample should provide final solution concentrations that are within the linear portion of the calibration curve, as well as, at a concentration level at least: equal to that of the original sample; and, ten (10) times the detection limit.
9.1.6.3 If the spiked sample concentration meets the stated criteria but exceeds the linear calibration range, the spiked sample must be diluted with the field absorbing solution.
9.1.6.4 If the recoveries for the Cr spiked samples do not meet the specified criteria, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem prior to reanalyzing the samples.
9.1.7 ICP Field Reagent Blank.
9.1.7.1 Analyze a minimum of one matrix-matched field reagent blank (Section 8.2.4) per sample batch to determine if contamination or memory effects are occurring.
9.1.7.2 If contamination or memory effects are observed, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem before reanalyzing the samples.
9.2 GFAAS Quality Control.
9.2.1 GFAAS Calibration Reference Standards. The calibration curve must be verified by using at least one calibration reference standard (made from a reference material or other independent standard material) at or near the mid-range of the calibration curve.
9.2.1.1 The calibration curve must be validated before sample analyses are performed.
9.2.1.2 The calibration reference standard must be measured within 10 percent of its true value for the curve to be considered valid.
9.2.2 GFAAS Continuing Check Standard.
9.2.2.1 Perform analysis of the check standard with the field samples as described in Section 11.4 (at least after every 10 samples, and at the end of the analytical run).
9.2.2.2 These standards are analyzed, in part, to monitor the life and performance of the graphite tube. Lack of reproducibility or a significant change in the signal for the check standard may indicate that the graphite tube should be replaced.
9.2.2.3 The check standard may be either the mid-range calibration standard or the reference standard.
9.2.2.4 The results of the check standard shall agree within 10 percent of the expected value.
9.2.2.5 If not, terminate the analyses, correct the problem, recalibrate the instrument, and reanalyze all samples analyzed subsequent to the last acceptable check standard analysis.
9.2.3 GFAAS Calibration Blank.
9.2.3.1 Perform analysis of the calibration blank with the field samples as described in Section 11.4 (at least after every 10 samples, and at the end of the analytical run).
9.2.3.2 The calibration blank is analyzed to monitor the life and performance of the graphite tube as well as the existence of any memory effects. Lack of reproducibility or a significant change in the signal, may indicate that the graphite tube should be replaced.
9.2.3.3 The results of the calibration blank shall agree within three standard deviations of the mean blank value.
9.2.3.4 If not, analyze the calibration blank two more times and average the results. If the average is not within three standard deviations of the background mean, terminate the analyses, correct the problem, recalibrate, and reanalyze all samples analyzed subsequent to the last acceptable calibration blank analysis.
9.2.4 GFAAS Duplicate Sample Analysis. Perform one duplicate sample analysis for each compliance sample batch (3 runs).
9.2.4.1 A digested aliquot of the selected sample is processed and analyzed using the identical procedures that were used for the whole sample preparation and analytical efforts.
9.2.4.2 Duplicate sample analyses results incorporating duplicate digestions shall agree within 20 percent for sample results exceeding ten (10) times the detection limit.
9.2.4.3 Report the original analysis value for the sample and report the duplicate analysis value as the QC check value.
9.2.4.4 If agreement is not achieved, perform the duplicate analysis again. If agreement is not achieved the second time, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem before analyzing the sample for a third time.
9.2.5 GFAAS Matrix Spiking.
9.2.5.1 Spiked samples shall be prepared and analyzed daily to ensure that (1) correct procedures are being followed, (2) there are no matrix effects and (3) all equipment is operating properly.
9.2.5.2 Cr spikes are added prior to any sample preparation.
9.2.5.3 Cr levels in the spiked sample should provide final solution concentrations that are within the linear portion of the calibration curve, as well as, at a concentration level at least: equal to that of the original sample; and, ten (10) times the detection limit.
9.2.5.4 Spiked sample recovery analyses should indicate a recovery for the Cr spike of between 75 and 125 percent.
9.2.5.5 If the recoveries for the Cr spiked samples do not meet the specified criteria, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem prior to reanalyzing the samples.
9.2.6 GFAAS Method of Standard Additions.
9.2.6.1 Method of Standard Additions. Perform procedures in Section 5.4 of Method 12 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A)
9.2.6.2 Whenever sample matrix problems are suspected and standard/sample matrix matching is not possible or whenever a new sample matrix is being analyzed, perform referenced procedures to determine if the method of standard additions is necessary.
9.2.7 GFAAS Field Reagent Blank.
9.2.7.1 Analyze a minimum of one matrix-matched field reagent blank (Section 8.2.4) per sample batch to determine if contamination or memory effects are occurring.
9.2.7.2 If contamination or memory effects are observed, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem before reanalyzing the samples.
9.3 IC/PCR Quality Control.
9.3.1 IC/PCR Calibration Reference Standards.
9.3.1.1 Prepare a calibration reference standard at a concentration that is at or near the mid-point of the calibration curve using the same alkaline matrix as the calibration standards. This reference standard should be prepared from a different Cr stock solution than that used to prepare the calibration curve standards. The reference standard is used to verify the accuracy of the calibration curve.
9.3.1.2 The curve must be validated before sample analyses are performed. Prior to sample analysis, analyze at least one reference standard with an expected value within the calibration range.
9.3.1.3 The results of this reference standard analysis must be within 10 percent of the true value of the reference standard for the calibration curve to be considered valid.
9.3.2 IC/PCR Continuing Check Standard and Calibration Blank.
9.3.2.1 Perform analysis of the check standard and the calibration blank with the field samples as described in Section 11.6 (at least after every 10 samples, and at the end of the analytical run).
9.3.2.2 The result from the check standard must be within 10 percent of the expected value.
9.3.2.3 If the 10 percent criteria is exceeded, excessive drift and/or instrument degradation may have occurred, and must be corrected before further analyses can be performed.
9.3.2.4 The results of the calibration blank analyses must agree within three standard deviations of the mean blank value.
9.3.2.5 If not, analyze the calibration blank two more times and average the results.
9.3.2.6 If the average is not within three standard deviations of the background mean, terminate the analyses, correct the problem, recalibrate, and reanalyze all samples analyzed subsequent to the last acceptable calibration blank analysis.
9.3.3 IC/PCR Duplicate Sample Analysis.
9.3.3.1 Perform one duplicate sample analysis for each compliance sample batch (3 runs).
9.3.3.2 An aliquot of the selected sample is prepared and analyzed using procedures identical to those used for the emission samples (for example, filtration and/or, if necessary, preconcentration).
9.3.3.3 Duplicate sample injection results shall agree within 10 percent for sample results exceeding ten (10) times the detection limit.
9.3.3.4 Report the original analysis value for the sample and report the duplicate analysis value as the QC check value.
9.3.3.5 If agreement is not achieved, perform the duplicate analysis again.
9.3.3.6 If agreement is not achieved the second time, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem prior to analyzing the sample for a third time.
9.3.4 ICP/PCR Matrix Spiking. Spiked samples shall be prepared and analyzed with each sample set to ensure that there are no matrix effects, that samples and standards have been matrix-matched, and that the equipment is operating properly.
9.3.4.1 Spiked sample recovery analysis should indicate a recovery of the Cr
+6
spike between 75 and 125 percent.
9.3.4.2 The spiked sample concentration should be within the linear portion of the calibration curve and should be equal to or greater than the concentration of the original sample. In addition, the spiked sample concentration should be at least ten (10) times the detection limit.
9.3.4.3 If the recoveries for the Cr
+6
spiked samples do not meet the specified criteria, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem prior to reanalyzing the samples.
9.3.5 IC/PCR Field Reagent Blank.
9.3.5.1 Analyze a minimum of one matrix-matched field reagent blank (Section 8.2.4) per sample batch to determine if contamination or memory effects are occurring.
9.3.5.2 If contamination or memory effects are observed, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem before reanalyzing the samples.

# 10.0 Calibration and Standardization
10.1 Sampling Train Calibration. Perform calibrations described in Method 5, (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). The alternate calibration procedures described in Method 5, may also be used.
10.2 ICP Calibration.
10.2.1 Calibrate the instrument according to the instrument manufacturer's recommended procedures, using a calibration blank and three standards for the initial calibration.
10.2.2 Calibration standards should be prepared fresh daily, as described in Section
7.3.8. Be sure that samples and calibration standards are matrix matched. Flush the system with the calibration blank between each standard.
10.2.3 Use the average intensity of multiple exposures (3 or more) for both standardization and sample analysis to reduce random error.
10.2.4 Employing linear regression, calculate the correlation coefficient .
10.2.5 The correlation coefficient must equal or exceed 0.995.
10.2.6 If linearity is not acceptable, prepare and rerun another set of calibration standards or reduce the range of the calibration standards, as necessary.
10.3 GFAAS Calibration.
10.3.1 For instruments that measure directly in concentration, set the instrument software to display the correct concentration, if applicable.
10.3.2 Curve must be linear in order to correctly perform the method of standard additions which is customarily performed automatically with most instrument computer-based data systems.
10.3.3 The calibration curve (direct calibration or standard additions) must be prepared daily with a minimum of a calibration blank and three standards that are prepared fresh daily.
10.3.4 The calibration curve acceptance criteria must equal or exceed 0.995.
10.3.5 If linearity is not acceptable, prepare and rerun another set of calibration standards or reduce the range of calibration standards, as necessary.
10.4 IC/PCR Calibration.
10.4.1 Prepare a calibration curve using the calibration blank and three calibration standards prepared fresh daily as described in Section 7.3.8.
10.4.2 The calibration curve acceptance criteria must equal or exceed 0.995.
10.4.3 If linearity is not acceptable, remake and/or rerun the calibration standards. If the calibration curve is still unacceptable, reduce the range of the curve.
10.4.4 Analyze the standards with the field samples as described in Section 11.6.

# 11.0 Analytical Procedures

# Note:
The method determines the chromium concentration in µg Cr/mL. It is important that the analyst measure the field sample volume prior to analyzing the sample. This will allow for conversion of µg Cr/mL to µg Cr/sample.
11.1 ICP Sample Preparation.
11.1.1 The ICP analysis is performed directly on the alkaline impinger solution; acid digestion is not necessary, provided the samples and standards are matrix matched.
11.1.2 The ICP analysis should only be employed when the solution analyzed has a Cr concentration greater than 35 µg/L or five times the method detection limit as determined according to Appendix B in 40 CFR Part 136 or by other commonly accepted analytical procedures.
11.2 ICP Sample Analysis.
11.2.1 The ICP analysis is applicable for the determination of total chromium only.
11.2.2 ICP Blanks. Two types of blanks are required for the ICP analysis.
11.2.2.1 Calibration Blank. The calibration blank is used in establishing the calibration curve. For the calibration blank, use either 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO
3
, whichever is used for the impinger absorbing solution. The calibration blank can be prepared fresh in the laboratory; it does not have to be prepared from the same batch of solution that was used in the field. A sufficient quantity should be prepared to flush the system between standards and samples.
11.2.2.2 Field Reagent Blank. The field reagent blank is collected in the field during the testing program. The field reagent blank (Section 8.2.4) is an aliquot of the absorbing solution prepared in Section 7.1.2. The reagent blank is used to assess possible contamination resulting from sample processing.
11.2.3 ICP Instrument Adjustment.
11.2.3.1 Adjust the ICP instrument for proper operating parameters including wavelength, background correction settings (if necessary), and interfering element correction settings (if necessary).
11.2.3.2 The instrument must be allowed to become thermally stable before beginning measurements (usually requiring at least 30 min of operation prior to calibration). During this warmup period, the optical calibration and torch position optimization may be performed (consult the operator's manual).
11.2.4 ICP Instrument Calibration.
11.2.4.1 Calibrate the instrument according to the instrument manufacturer's recommended procedures, and the procedures specified in Section 10.2.
11.2.4.2 Prior to analyzing the field samples, reanalyze the highest calibration standard as if it were a sample.
11.2.4.3 Concentration values obtained should not deviate from the actual values or from the established control limits by more than 5 percent, whichever is lower (see Sections 9.1 and 10.2).
11.2.4.4 If they do, follow the recommendations of the instrument manufacturer to correct the problem.
11.2.5 ICP Operational Quality Control Procedures.
11.2.5.1 Flush the system with the calibration blank solution for at least 1 min before the analysis of each sample or standard.
11.2.5.2 Analyze the continuing check standard and the calibration blank after each batch of 10 samples.
11.2.5.3 Use the average intensity of multiple exposures for both standardization and sample analysis to reduce random error.
11.2.6 ICP Sample Dilution.
11.2.6.1 Dilute and reanalyze samples that are more concentrated than the linear calibration limit or use an alternate, less sensitive Cr wavelength for which quality control data have already been established.
11.2.6.2 When dilutions are performed, the appropriate factors must be applied to sample measurement results.
11.2.7 Reporting Analytical Results. All analytical results should be reported in µg Cr/mL using three significant figures. Field sample volumes (mL) must be reported also.
11.3 GFAAS Sample Preparation.
11.3.1 GFAAS Acid Digestion. An acid digestion of the alkaline impinger solution is required for the GFAAS analysis.
11.3.1.1 In a beaker, add 10 mL of concentrated HNO
3
to a 100 mL sample aliquot that has been well mixed. Cover the beaker with a watch glass. Place the beaker on a hot plate and reflux the sample to near dryness. Add another 5 mL of concentrated HNO
3
to complete the digestion. Again, carefully reflux the sample volume to near dryness. Rinse the beaker walls and watch glass with reagent water.
11.3.1.2 The final concentration of HNO
3
in the solution should be 1 percent (v/v).
11.3.1.3 Transfer the digested sample to a 50-mL volumetric flask. Add 0.5 mL of concentrated HNO
3
and 1 mL of the 10 µg/mL of Ca(NO
3
)
2
. Dilute to 50 mL with reagent water.
11.3.2 HNO
3
Concentration. A different final volume may be used based on the expected Cr concentration, but the HNO
3
concentration must be maintained at 1 percent (v/v).
11.4 GFAAS Sample Analysis.
11.4.1 The GFAAS analysis is applicable for the determination of total chromium only.
11.4.2 GFAAS Blanks. Two types of blanks are required for the GFAAS analysis.
11.4.2.1 Calibration Blank. The 1.0 percent HNO
3
is the calibration blank which is used in establishing the calibration curve.
11.4.2.2 Field Reagent Blank. An aliquot of the 0.1 N NaOH solution or the 0.1 N NaHCO
3
prepared in Section 7.1.2 is collected for the field reagent blank. The field reagent blank is used to assess possible contamination resulting from processing the sample.
11.4.2.2.1 The reagent blank must be subjected to the entire series of sample preparation and analytical procedures, including the acid digestion.
11.4.2.2.2 The reagent blank's final solution must contain the same acid concentration as the sample solutions.
11.4.3 GFAAS Instrument Adjustment.
11.4.3.1 The 357.9 nm wavelength line shall be used.
11.4.3.2 Follow the manufacturer's instructions for all other spectrophotometer operating parameters.
11.4.4 Furnace Operational Parameters. Parameters suggested by the manufacturer should be employed as guidelines.
11.4.4.1 Temperature-sensing mechanisms and temperature controllers can vary between instruments and/or with time; the validity of the furnace operating parameters must be periodically confirmed by systematically altering the furnace parameters while analyzing a standard. In this manner, losses of analyte due to higher-than-necessary temperature settings or losses in sensitivity due to less than optimum settings can be minimized.
11.4.4.2 Similar verification of furnace operating parameters may be required for complex sample matrices (consult instrument manual for additional information). Calibrate the GFAAS system following the procedures specified in Section 10.3.
11.4.5 GFAAS Operational Quality Control Procedures.
11.4.5.1 Introduce a measured aliquot of digested sample into the furnace and atomize.
11.4.5.2 If the measured concentration exceeds the calibration range, the sample should be diluted with the calibration blank solution (1.0 percent HNO
3
) and reanalyzed.
11.4.5.3 Consult the operator's manual for suggested injection volumes. The use of multiple injections can improve accuracy and assist in detecting furnace pipetting errors.
11.4.5.4 Analyze a minimum of one matrix-matched reagent blank per sample batch to determine if contamination or any memory effects are occurring.
11.4.5.5 Analyze a calibration blank and a continuing check standard after approximately every batch of 10 sample injections.
11.4.6 GFAAS Sample Dilution.
11.4.6.1 Dilute and reanalyze samples that are more concentrated than the instrument calibration range.
11.4.6.2 If dilutions are performed, the appropriate factors must be applied to sample measurement results.
11.4.7 Reporting Analytical Results.
11.4.7.1 Calculate the Cr concentrations by the method of standard additions (see operator's manual) or, from direct calibration. All dilution and/or concentration factors must be used when calculating the results.
11.4.7.2 Analytical results should be reported in µg Cr/mL using three significant figures. Field sample volumes (mL) must be reported also.
11.5 IC/PCR Sample Preparation.
11.5.1 Sample pH. Measure and record the sample pH prior to analysis.
11.5.2 Sample Filtration. Prior to preconcentration and/or analysis, filter all field samples through a 0.45-µm filter. The
filtration step should be conducted just prior to sample injection/analysis.
11.5.2.1 Use a portion of the sample to rinse the syringe filtration unit and acetate filter and then collect the required volume of filtrate.
11.5.2.2 Retain the filter if total Cr is to be determined also.
11.5.3 Sample Preconcentration (older instruments).
11.5.3.1 For older instruments, a preconcentration system may be used in conjunction with the IC/PCR to increase sensitivity for trace levels of Cr
+6
.
11.5.3.2 The preconcentration is accomplished by selectively retaining the analyte on a solid absorbent, followed by removal of the analyte from the absorbent (consult instrument manual).
11.5.3.3 For a manual system, position the injection valve so that the eluent displaces the concentrated Cr
+6
sample, transferring it from the preconcentration column and onto the IC anion separation column.
11.6 IC/PCR Sample Analyses.
11.6.1 The IC/PCR analysis is applicable for hexavalent chromium measurements only.
11.6.2 IC/PCR Blanks. Two types of blanks are required for the IC/PCR analysis.
11.6.2.1 Calibration Blank. The calibration blank is used in establishing the analytical curve. For the calibration blank, use either 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO
3
, whichever is used for the impinger solution. The calibration blank can be prepared fresh in the laboratory; it does not have to be prepared from the same batch of absorbing solution that is used in the field.
11.6.2.2 Field Reagent Blank. An aliquot of the 0.1 N NaOH solution or the 0.1 N NaHCO
3
solution prepared in Section 7.1.2 is collected for the field reagent blank. The field reagent blank is used to assess possible contamination resulting from processing the sample.
11.6.3 Stabilized Baseline. Prior to sample analysis, establish a stable baseline with the detector set at the required attenuation by setting the eluent and post-column reagent flow rates according to the manufacturers recommendations.

# Note:
As long as the ratio of eluent flow rate to PCR flow rate remains constant, the standard curve should remain linear. Inject a sample of reagent water to ensure that no Cr
+6
appears in the water blank.
11.6.4 Sample Injection Loop. Size of injection loop is based on standard/sample concentrations and the selected attenuator setting.
11.6.4.1 A 50-µL loop is normally sufficient for most higher concentrations.
11.6.4.2 The sample volume used to load the injection loop should be at least 10 times the loop size so that all tubing in contact with the sample is thoroughly flushed with the new sample to prevent cross contamination.
11.6.5 IC/PCR Instrument Calibration.
11.6.5.1 First, inject the calibration standards prepared, as described in Section 7.3.8 to correspond to the appropriate concentration range, starting with the lowest standard first.
11.6.5.2 Check the performance of the instrument and verify the calibration using data gathered from analyses of laboratory blanks, calibration standards, and a quality control sample.
11.6.5.3 Verify the calibration by analyzing a calibration reference standard. If the measured concentration exceeds the established value by more than 10 percent, perform a second analysis. If the measured concentration still exceeds the established value by more than 10 percent, terminate the analysis until the problem can be identified and corrected.
11.6.6 IC/PCR Instrument Operation.
11.6.6.1 Inject the calibration reference standard (as described in Section 9.3.1), followed by the field reagent blank (Section 8.2.4), and the field samples.
11.6.6.1.1 Standards (and QC standards) and samples are injected into the sample loop of the desired size (use a larger size loop for greater sensitivity). The Cr
+6
is collected on the resin bed of the column.
11.6.6.1.2 After separation from other sample components, the Cr
+6
forms a specific complex in the post-column reactor with the DPC reaction solution, and the complex is detected by visible absorbance at a maximum wavelength of 540 nm.
11.6.6.1.3 The amount of absorbance measured is proportional to the concentration of the Cr
+6
complex formed.
11.6.6.1.4 The IC retention time and the absorbance of the Cr
+6
complex with known Cr
+6
standards analyzed under identical conditions must be compared to provide both qualitative and quantitative analyses.
11.6.6.1.5 If a sample peak appears near the expected retention time of the Cr
+6
ion, spike the sample according to Section 9.3.4 to verify peak identity.
11.6.7 IC/PCR Operational Quality Control Procedures.
11.6.7.1 Samples should be at a pH ≥8.5 for NaOH and ≥8.0 if using NaHCO
3
; document any discrepancies.
11.6.7.2 Refrigerated samples should be allowed to equilibrate to ambient temperature prior to preparation and analysis.
11.6.7.3 Repeat the injection of the calibration standards at the end of the analytical run to assess instrument drift. Measure areas or heights of the Cr
+6
/DPC complex chromatogram peaks.
11.6.7.4 To ensure the precision of the sample injection (manual or autosampler), the response for the second set of injected
standards must be within 10 percent of the average response.
11.6.7.5 If the 10 percent criteria duplicate injection cannot be achieved, identify the source of the problem and rerun the calibration standards.
11.6.7.6 Use peak areas or peak heights from the injections of calibration standards to generate a linear calibration curve. From the calibration curve, determine the concentrations of the field samples.
11.6.8 IC/PCR Sample Dilution.
11.6.8.1 Samples having concentrations higher than the established calibration range must be diluted into the calibration range and re-analyzed.
11.6.8.2 If dilutions are performed, the appropriate factors must be applied to sample measurement results.
11.6.9 Reporting Analytical Results. Results should be reported in µg Cr
+6
/mL using three significant figures. Field sample volumes (mL) must be reported also.

# 12.0 Data Analysis and Calculations
12.1 Pretest Calculations.
12.1.1 Pretest Protocol (Site Test Plan).
12.1.1.1 The pretest protocol should define and address the test data quality objectives (DQOs), with all assumptions, that will be required by the end user (enforcement authority); what data are needed? why are the data needed? how will the data be used? what are method detection limits? and what are estimated target analyte levels for the following test parameters.
12.1.1.1.1 Estimated source concentration for total chromium and/or Cr
+6
.
12.1.1.1.2 Estimated minimum sampling time and/or volume required to meet method detection limit requirements (Appendix B 40 CFR Part 136) for measurement of total chromium and/or Cr
+6
.
12.1.1.1.3 Demonstrate that planned sampling parameters will meet DQOs. The protocol must demonstrate that the planned sampling parameters calculated by the tester will meet the needs of the source and the enforcement authority.
12.1.1.2 The pre-test protocol should include information on equipment, logistics, personnel, process operation, and other resources necessary for an efficient and coordinated test.
12.1.1.3 At a minimum, the pre-test protocol should identify and be approved by the source, the tester, the analytical laboratory, and the regulatory enforcement authority. The tester should not proceed with the compliance testing before obtaining approval from the enforcement authority.
12.1.2 Post Test Calculations.
12.1.2.1 Perform the calculations, retaining one extra decimal figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after final calculations.
12.1.2.2 Nomenclature.
C
S
= Concentration of Cr in sample solution, µg Cr/mL.
C
cr
= Concentration of Cr in stack gas, dry basis, corrected to standard conditions, mg/dscm.
D = Digestion factor, dimension less.
F = Dilution factor, dimension less.
M
Cr
= Total Cr in each sample, µg.
V
ad
= Volume of sample aliquot after digestion, mL.
V
af
= Volume of sample aliquot after dilution, mL.
V
bd
= Volume of sample aliquot submitted to digestion, mL.
V
bf
= Volume of sample aliquot before dilution, mL.
V
mL
= Volume of impinger contents plus rinses, mL.
V
m(std)
= Volume of gas sample measured by the dry gas meter, corrected to standard conditions, dscm.
12.1.2.3 Dilution Factor. The dilution factor is the ratio of the volume of sample aliquot after dilution to the volume before dilution. This ratio is given by the following equation:
ER17OC00.573
12.1.2.4 Digestion Factor. The digestion factor is the ratio of the volume of sample aliquot after digestion to the volume before digestion. This ratio is given by Equation 306-2.
ER17OC00.574
12.1.2.5 Total Cr in Sample. Calculate MCr, the total µg Cr in each sample, using the following equation:
ER17OC00.575
12.1.2.6 Average Dry Gas Meter Temperature and Average Orifice Pressure Drop. Same as Method 5.
12.1.2.7 Dry Gas Volume, Volume of Water Vapor, Moisture Content. Same as Method 5.
12.1.2.8 Cr Emission Concentration (C
Cr
). Calculate C
Cr
, the Cr concentration in the stack gas, in mg/dscm on a dry basis, corrected to standard conditions using the following equation:
ER17OC00.576
12.1.2.9 Isokinetic Variation, Acceptable Results. Same as Method 5.

# 13.0 Method Performance
13.1 Range. The recommended working range for all of the three analytical techniques starts at five times the analytical detection limit (see also Section 13.2.2). The upper limit of all three techniques can be extended indefinitely by appropriate dilution.
13.2 Sensitivity.
13.2.1 Analytical Sensitivity. The estimated instrumental detection limits listed are provided as a guide for an instrumental limit. The actual method detection limits are sample and instrument dependent and may vary as the sample matrix varies.
13.2.1.2 ICP Analytical Sensitivity. The minimum estimated detection limits for ICP, as reported in Method 6010A and the recently revised Method 6010B of SW-846 (Reference 1), are 7.0 µg Cr/L and 4.7 µg Cr/L, respectively.
13.2.1.3 GFAAS Analytical Sensitivity. The minimum estimated detection limit for GFAAS, as reported in Methods 7000A and 7191 of SW-846 (Reference 1), is 1 µg Cr/L.
13.2.1.4 IC/PCR Analytical Sensitivity. The minimum detection limit for IC/PCR with a preconcentrator, as reported in Methods 0061 and 7199 of SW-846 (Reference 1), is 0.05 µg Cr
+6
/L.
1.3.2.1.5 Determination of Detection Limits. The laboratory performing the Cr
+6
measurements must determine the method detection limit on a quarterly basis using a suitable procedure such as that found in 40 CFR, Part 136, Appendix B. The determination should be made on samples in the appropriate alkaline matrix. Normally this involves the preparation (if applicable) and consecutive measurement of seven (7) separate aliquots of a sample with a concentration
5 times the expected detection limit. The detection limit is 3.14 times the standard deviation of these results.
13.2.2 In-stack Sensitivity. The in-stack sensitivity depends upon the analytical detection limit, the volume of stack gas sampled, the total volume of the impinger absorbing solution plus the rinses, and, in some cases, dilution or concentration factors from sample preparation. Using the analytical detection limits given in Sections 13.2.1.1, 13.2.1.2, and 13.2.1.3; a stack gas sample volume of 1.7 dscm; a total liquid sample volume of 500 mL; and the digestion concentration factor of
1/2
for the GFAAS analysis; the corresponding in-stack detection limits are 0.0014 mg Cr/dscm to 0.0021 mg Cr/dscm for ICP, 0.00015 mg Cr/dscm for GFAAS, and 0.000015 mg Cr
+6
/dscm for IC/PCR with preconcentration.

# Note:
It is recommended that the concentration of Cr in the analytical solutions be at least five times the analytical detection limit to optimize sensitivity in the analyses. Using this guideline and the same assumptions for impinger sample volume, stack gas sample volume, and the digestion concentration factor for the GFAAS analysis (500 mL,1.7 dscm, and 1/2, respectively), the recommended minimum stack concentrations for optimum sensitivity are 0.0068 mg Cr/dscm to 0.0103 mg Cr/dscm for ICP, 0.00074 mg Cr/dscm for GFAAS, and 0.000074 mg Cr
+6
/dscm for IC/PCR with preconcentration. If required, the in-stack detection limits can be improved by either increasing the stack gas sample volume, further reducing the volume of the digested sample for GFAAS, improving the analytical detection limits, or any combination of the three.
13.3 Precision.
13.3.1 The following precision data have been reported for the three analytical methods. In each case, when the sampling precision is combined with the reported analytical precision, the resulting overall precision may decrease.
13.3.2 Bias data is also reported for GFAAS.
13.4 ICP Precision.
13.4.1 As reported in Method 6010B of SW-846 (Reference 1), in an EPA round-robin Phase 1 study, seven laboratories applied the ICP technique to acid/distilled water matrices that had been spiked with various metal concentrates. For true values of 10, 50, and 150 µg Cr/L; the mean reported values were 10, 50, and 149 µg Cr/L; and the mean percent relative standard deviations were 18, 3.3, and 3.8 percent, respectively.
13.4.2 In another multi laboratory study cited in Method 6010B, a mean relative standard of 8.2 percent was reported for an aqueous sample concentration of approximately 3750 µg Cr/L.
13.5 GFAAS Precision. As reported in Method 7191 of SW-846 (Reference 1), in a single laboratory (EMSL), using Cincinnati, Ohio tap water spiked at concentrations of 19, 48, and 77 µg Cr/L, the standard deviations were ±0.1, ±0.2, and ±0.8, respectively. Recoveries at these levels were 97 percent, 101 percent, and 102 percent, respectively.
13.6 IC/PCR Precision. As reported in Methods 0061 and 7199 of SW-846 (Reference 1), the precision of IC/PCR with sample preconcentration is 5 to 10 percent. The overall precision for sewage sludge incinerators emitting 120 ng/dscm of Cr
+6
and 3.5 µg/dscm of total Cr was 25 percent and 9 percent, respectively; and for hazardous waste incinerators emitting 300 ng/dscm of C
+6
the precision was 20 percent.

# 14.0 Pollution Prevention
14.1 The only materials used in this method that could be considered pollutants are the chromium standards used for instrument calibration and acids used in the cleaning of the collection and measurement containers/labware, in the preparation of standards, and in the acid digestion of samples. Both reagents can be stored in the same waste container.
14.2 Cleaning solutions containing acids should be prepared in volumes consistent with use to minimize the disposal of excessive volumes of acid.
14.3 To the extent possible, the containers/vessels used to collect and prepare samples should be cleaned and reused to minimize the generation of solid waste.

# 15.0 Waste Management
15.1 It is the responsibility of the laboratory and the sampling team to comply with all federal, state, and local regulations governing waste management, particularly the discharge regulations, hazardous waste identification rules, and land disposal restrictions; and to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from field operations.
15.2 For further information on waste management, consult The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel and Less is Better—Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction, available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Government Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036.

# 16.0 References
1. “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods, SW-846, Third Edition,” as amended by Updates I, II, IIA, IIB, and III. Document No. 955-001-000001. Available from Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC, November 1986.
2. Cox, X.B., R.W. Linton, and F.E. Butler. Determination of Chromium Speciation in Environmental Particles—A Multi-technique Study of Ferrochrome Smelter Dust. Accepted for publication in Environmental Science and Technology.
3. Same as Section 17.0 of Method 5, References 2, 3, 4, 5, and 7.
4. California Air Resources Board, “Determination of Total Chromium and Hexavalent Chromium Emissions from Stationary Sources.” Method 425, September 12, 1990.
5.
The Merck Index.
Eleventh Edition. Merck
Co., Inc., 1989.
6. Walpole, R.E., and R.H. Myers. “Probability and Statistics for Scientists and Engineering.” 3rd Edition. MacMillan Publishing Co., NewYork, N.Y., 1985.

# 17.0 Tables, Diagrams, Flowcharts, and Validation Data
ER17OC00.577
ER17OC00.578

# Method 306A—Determination of Chromium Emissions From Decorative and Hard Chromium Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Operations

# Note:
This method does not include all of the specifications (
e.g.,
equipment and supplies) and procedures (
e.g.,
sampling and analytical) essential to its performance. Some material is incorporated by reference from other methods in 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A and in this part. Therefore, to obtain reliable results, persons using this method should have a thorough knowledge of at least Methods 5 and 306.

# 1.0 Scope and Application
1.1 Analyte. Chromium. CAS Number (7440-47-3).
1.2 Applicability.
1.2.1 This method applies to the determination of chromium (Cr) in emissions from decorative and hard chromium electroplating facilities, chromium anodizing operations, and continuous chromium plating at iron and steel facilities. The method is less expensive and less complex to conduct than Method 306. Correctly applied, the precision and bias of the sample results should be comparable to those obtained with the isokinetic Method 306. This method is applicable for the determination of air emissions under nominal ambient moisture, temperature, and pressure conditions.
1.2.2 The method is also applicable to electroplating and anodizing sources controlled by wet scrubbers.
1.3 Data Quality Objectives.
1.3.1 Pretest Protocol.
1.3.1.1 The pretest protocol should define and address the test data quality objectives (DQOs), with all assumptions, that will be required by the end user (enforcement authority); what data are needed? why are the data needed? how will data be used? what are method detection limits? and what are estimated target analyte levels for the following test parameters.
1.3.1.1.1 Estimated source concentration for total chromium and/or Cr
+6
.
1.3.1.1.2 Estimated minimum sampling time and/or volume required to meet method detection limit requirements (Appendix B 40 CFR Part 136) for measurement of total chromium and/or Cr
+6
.
1.3.1.1.3 Demonstrate that planned sampling parameters will meet DQOs. The protocol must demonstrate that the planned sampling parameters calculated by the tester will meet the needs of the source and the enforcement authority.
1.3.1.2 The pre-test protocol should include information on equipment, logistics, personnel, process operation, and other resources necessary for an efficient and coordinated performance test.
1.3.1.3 At a minimum, the pre-test protocol should identify and be approved by the source, the tester, the analytical laboratory, and the regulatory enforcement authority. The tester should not proceed with the compliance testing before obtaining approval from the enforcement authority.

# 2.0 Summary of Method
2.1 Sampling.
2.1.1 An emission sample is extracted from the source at a constant sampling rate determined by a critical orifice and collected in a sampling train composed of a probe and impingers. The proportional sampling time at the cross sectional traverse points is varied according to the stack gas velocity at each point. The total sample time must be at least two hours.
2.1.2 The chromium emission concentration is determined by the same analytical procedures described in Method 306: inductively-coupled plasma emission spectrometry (ICP), graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry (GFAAS), or ion chromatography with a post-column reactor (IC/PCR).
2.1.2.1 Total chromium samples with high chromium concentrations (≥35 µg/L) may be analyzed using inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometry (ICP) at 267.72 nm.

# Note:
The ICP analysis is applicable for this method only when the solution analyzed has a Cr concentration greater than or equal to 35 µg/L or five times the method detection limit as determined according to Appendix B in 40 CFR Part 136.
2.1.2.2 Alternatively, when lower total chromium concentrations (
35 µg/L) are encountered, a portion of the alkaline sample solution may be digested with nitric acid and analyzed by graphite furnace atomic absorption spectroscopy (GFAAS) at 357.9 nm.
2.1.2.3 If it is desirable to determine hexavalent chromium (Cr
+6
) emissions, the samples may be analyzed using an ion chromatograph equipped with a post-column reactor (IC/PCR) and a visible wavelength detector. To increase sensitivity for trace levels of Cr
+6
, a preconcentration system may be used in conjunction with the IC/PCR.

# 3.0 Definitions
3.1
Total Chromium
—measured chromium content that includes both major chromium oxidation states (Cr + 3, Cr + 6).
3.2
May
—Implies an optional operation.
3.3
Digestion
—The analytical operation involving the complete (or nearly complete) dissolution of the sample in order to ensure the complete solubilization of the element (analyte) to be measured.
3.4
Interferences
—Physical, chemical, or spectral phenomena that may produce a high or low bias in the analytical result.
3.5
Analytical System
—All components of the analytical process including the sample digestion and measurement apparatus.
3.6
Sample Recovery
—The quantitative transfer of sample from the collection apparatus to the sample preparation (digestion, etc.) apparatus. This term should not be confused with analytical recovery.

# 4.0 Interferences
4.1 Same as in Method 306, Section 4.0.

# 5.0 Safety
5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method does not purport to address all of the safety issues associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.
5.2 Chromium and some chromium compounds have been listed as carcinogens although Chromium (III) compounds show little or no toxicity. Chromium is a skin and respiratory irritant.

# 6.0 Equipment and Supplies

# Note:
Mention of trade names or specific products does not constitute endorsement by the Environmental Protection Agency.
6.1 Sampling Train. A schematic of the sampling train is shown in Figure 306A-1. The individual components of the train are available commercially, however, some fabrication and assembly are required.
6.1.1 Probe Nozzle/Tubing and Sheath.
6.1.1.1 Use approximately 6.4-mm (
1/4
-in.) inside diameter (ID) glass or rigid plastic tubing approximately 20 cm (8 in.) in length with a short 90 degree bend at one end to form the sampling nozzle. Grind a slight taper on the nozzle end before making the bend. Attach the nozzle to flexible tubing of sufficient length to enable collection of a sample from the stack.
6.1.1.2 Use a straight piece of larger diameter rigid tubing (such as metal conduit or plastic water pipe) to form a sheath that begins about 2.5 cm (1 in.) from the 90 ° bend on the nozzle and encases and supports the flexible tubing.
6.1.2 Type S Pitot Tube. Same as Method 2, Section 6.1 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A).
6.1.3 Temperature Sensor.
6.1.3.1 A thermocouple, liquid-filled bulb thermometer, bimetallic thermometer, mercury-in-glass thermometer, or other sensor capable of measuring temperature to within 1.5 percent of the minimum absolute stack temperature.
6.1.3.2 The temperature sensor shall either be positioned near the center of the stack, or be attached to the pitot tube as directed in Section 6.3 of Method 2.
6.1.4 Sample Train Connectors.
6.1.4.1 Use thick wall flexible plastic tubing (polyethylene, polypropylene, or polyvinyl chloride) ~ 6.4-mm (
1/4
-in.) to 9.5-mm (
3/8
-in.) ID to connect the train components.
6.1.4.2 A combination of rigid plastic tubing and thin wall flexible tubing may be used as long as tubing walls do not collapse when leak-checking the train. Metal tubing cannot be used.
6.1.5 Impingers. Three, one-quart capacity, glass canning jars with vacuum seal lids, or three Greenburg-Smith (GS) design impingers connected in series, or equivalent, may be used.
6.1.5.1 One-quart glass canning jar. Three separate jar containers are required: (1) the first jar contains the absorbing solution; (2) the second is empty and is used to collect any reagent carried over from the first container; and (3) the third contains the desiccant drying agent.
6.1.5.2 Canning Jar Connectors. The jar containers are connected by leak-tight inlet and outlet tubes installed in the lids of each container for assembly with the train. The tubes may be made of ~ 6.4 mm (
1/4
-in.) ID glass or rigid plastic tubing. For the inlet tube of the first impinger, heat the glass or plastic tubing and draw until the tubing separates. Fabricate the necked tip to form an orifice tip that is approximately 2.4 mm (
3/32
-in.) ID.
6.1.5.2.1 When assembling the first container, place the orifice tip end of the tube approximately 4.8 mm (
3/16
-in.) above the inside bottom of the jar.
6.1.5.2.2 For the second container, the inlet tube need not be drawn and sized, but the tip should be approximately 25 mm (1 in.) above the bottom of the jar.
6.1.5.2.3 The inlet tube of the third container should extend to approximately 12.7 mm (
1/2
-in.) above the bottom of the jar.
6.1.5.2.4 Extend the outlet tube for each container approximately 50 mm (2 in.) above the jar lid and downward through the lid, approximately 12.7 mm (
1/2
-in.) beneath the bottom of the lid.
6.1.5.3 Greenburg-Smith Impingers. Three separate impingers of the Greenburg-Smith (GS) design as described in Section 6.0 of Method 5 are required. The first GS impinger shall have a standard tip (orifice/plate), and the second and third GS impingers shall be modified by replacing the orifice/plate tube with a 13 mm (
1/2
-in.) ID glass tube, having an unrestricted opening located 13 mm (
1/2
-in.) from the bottom of the outer flask.
6.1.5.4 Greenburg-Smith Connectors. The GS impingers shall be connected by leak-free ground glass “U” tube connectors or by leak-free non-contaminating flexible tubing. The first impinger shall contain the absorbing solution, the second is empty and the third contains the desiccant drying agent.
6.1.6 Manometer. Inclined/vertical type, or equivalent device, as described in Section 6.2 of Method 2 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A).
6.1.7 Critical Orifice. The critical orifice is a small restriction in the sample line that is located upstream of the vacuum pump. The orifice produces a constant sampling flow rate that is approximately 0.021 cubic meters per minute (m
3
/min) or 0.75 cubic feet per minute (cfm).
6.1.7.1 The critical orifice can be constructed by sealing a 2.4-mm (
3/32
-in.) ID brass tube approximately 14.3 mm (
9/16
-in.) in length inside a second brass tube that is approximately 8 mm (
5/16
-in.) ID and 14.3-mm (
9/16
-in.) in length .
6.1.7.2 Materials other than brass can be used to construct the critical orifice as long as the flow through the sampling train can be maintained at approximately 0.021 cubic meter per minute (0.75) cfm.
6.1.8 Connecting Hardware. Standard pipe and fittings, 9.5-mm (
3/8
-in.), 6.4-mm (
1/4
-in.)
or 3.2-mm (
1/8
-in.) ID, may be used to assemble the vacuum pump, dry gas meter and other sampling train components.
6.1.9 Vacuum Gauge. Capable of measuring approximately 760 mm H
g
(30 in. H
g
) vacuum in 25.4 mm H
G
(1 in. H
g
) increments. Locate vacuum gauge between the critical orifice and the vacuum pump.
6.1.10 Pump Oiler. A glass oil reservoir with a wick mounted at the vacuum pump inlet that lubricates the pump vanes. The oiler should be an in-line type and not vented to the atmosphere. See EMTIC Guideline Document No. GD-041.WPD for additional information.
6.1.11 Vacuum Pump. Gast Model 0522-V103-G18DX, or equivalent, capable of delivering at least 1.5 cfm at 15 in. H
g
vacuum.
6.1.12 Oil Trap/Muffler. An empty glass oil reservoir without wick mounted at the pump outlet to control the pump noise and prevent oil from reaching the dry gas meter.
6.1.13 By-pass Fine Adjust Valve (Optional). Needle valve assembly 6.4-mm (
1/4
-in.), Whitey 1 RF 4-A, or equivalent, that allows for adjustment of the train vacuum.
6.1.13.1 A fine-adjustment valve is positioned in the optional pump by-pass system that allows the gas flow to recirculate through the pump. This by-pass system allows the tester to control/reduce the maximum leak-check vacuum pressure produced by the pump.
6.1.13.1.1 The tester must conduct the post test leak check at a vacuum equal to or greater than the maximum vacuum encountered during the sampling run.
6.1.13.1.2 The pump by-pass assembly is not required, but is recommended if the tester intends to leak-check the 306A train at the vacuum experienced during a run.
6.1.14 Dry Gas Meter. An Equimeter Model 110 test meter or, equivalent with temperature sensor(s) installed (inlet/outlet) to monitor the meter temperature. If only one temperature sensor is installed, locate the sensor at the outlet side of the meter. The dry gas meter must be capable of measuring the gaseous volume to within ±2% of the true volume.

# Note:
The Method 306 sampling train is also commercially available and may be used to perform the Method 306A tests. The sampling train may be assembled as specified in Method 306A with the sampling rate being operated at the delta H
@
specified for the calibrated orifice located in the meter box. The Method 306 train is then operated as described in Method 306A.
6.2 Barometer. Mercury aneroid barometer, or other barometer equivalent, capable of measuring atmospheric pressure to within ±2.5 mm H
g
(0.1 in. H
g
).
6.2.1 A preliminary check of the barometer shall be made against a mercury-in-glass reference barometer or its equivalent.
6.2.2 Tester may elect to obtain the absolute barometric pressure from a nearby National Weather Service station.
6.2.2.1 The station value (which is the absolute barometric pressure) must be adjusted for elevation differences between the weather station and the sampling location. Either subtract 2.5 mm H
g
(0.1 in. H
g
) from the station value per 30 m (100 ft) of elevation increase or add the same for an elevation decrease.
6.2.2.2 If the field barometer cannot be adjusted to agree within 0.1 in. H
g
of the reference barometric, repair or discard the unit. The barometer pressure measurement shall be recorded on the sampling data sheet.
6.3 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, Section 6.2 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A), with the following exceptions:
6.3.1 Probe-Liner and Probe-Nozzle Brushes. Brushes are not necessary for sample recovery. If a probe brush is used, it must be non-metallic.
6.3.2 Wash Bottles. Polyethylene wash bottle, for sample recovery absorbing solution.
6.3.3 Sample Recovery Solution. Use 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO
3
, whichever is used as the impinger absorbing solution, to replace the acetone.
6.3.4 Sample Storage Containers.
6.3.4.1 Glass Canning Jar. The first canning jar container of the sampling train may serve as the sample shipping container. A new lid and sealing plastic wrap shall be substituted for the container lid assembly.
6.3.4.2 Polyethylene or Glass Containers. Transfer the Greenburg-Smith impinger contents to precleaned polyethylene or glass containers. The samples shall be stored and shipped in 250-mL, 500-mL or 1000-mL polyethylene or glass containers with leak-free, non metal screw caps.
6.3.5 pH Indicator Strip, for Cr
+6
Samples. pH indicator strips, or equivalent, capable of determining the pH of solutions between the range of 7 and 12, at 0.5 pH increments.
6.3.6 Plastic Storage Containers. Air tight containers to store silica gel.
6.4 Analysis. Same as Method 306, Section 6.3.

# 7.0 Reagents and Standards.
