(8) Documenting the dismissal of the allegation, and ensuring that the name of the accused individual and/or institution is cleared if an allegation of research misconduct is dismissed at any point during the inquiry or investigation phase of the proceedings;
(9) Other duties relating to research misconduct proceedings as assigned.
Allegation.
A disclosure of possible research misconduct through any means of communication. The disclosure may be by written or oral statement, or by other means of communication to an institutional or USDA official.
Applied research.
Systematic study to gain knowledge or understanding necessary to determine the means by which a recognized and specific need may be met.
Assistant Inspector General for Investigations.
The individual in OIG who is responsible for OIG's domestic and foreign investigative operations through OIG's national and regional investigative offices.
Basic research.
Systematic study directed toward fuller knowledge or understanding of the fundamental aspects of phenomena and of observable facts without specific applications towards processes or products in mind.
Extramural research.
Research conducted by any research institution or entity other than the Federal agency to which the funds supporting the research were appropriated. Research institutions conducting extramural research may include Federal research facilities.
Fabrication.
Making up data or results and recording or reporting them.
Falsification.
Manipulating research materials, equipment, or processes, or changing or omitting data or results such that the research is not accurately represented in the research record.
Finding of research misconduct.
The conclusion, proven by a preponderance of the evidence, that research misconduct occurred, that such research misconduct represented a significant departure from accepted practices of the relevant research community, and that such research misconduct was committed intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly.
Inquiry.
The stage in the response to an allegation of research misconduct when an assessment is made to determine whether the allegation has substance and whether an investigation is warranted.
Intramural research.
Research conducted by a Federal Agency, to which funds were appropriated for the purpose of conducting research.
Investigation.
The stage in the response to an allegation of research misconduct when the factual record is formally developed and examined to determine whether to dismiss the case, recommend a finding of research misconduct, and/or take other appropriate remedies.
Office of Inspector General (OIG).
The Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Agriculture.
Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP).
The Office of Science and Technology Policy of the Executive Office of the President.
Plagiarism.
The appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results, or words without giving appropriate credit.
Preponderance of the evidence.
Proof by information that, compared with that opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue is more probably true than not.
Research.
All basic, applied, and demonstration research in all fields of science, engineering, and mathematics. This includes, but is not limited to, research in economics, education, linguistics, medicine, psychology, social sciences, statistics, and research involving human subjects or animals regardless of the funding mechanism used to support it.
Research institution.
All organizations using Federal funds for research, including, for example, colleges and universities, Federally funded research and development centers, national user facilities, industrial laboratories, or other research institutes. Activities which meet this definition constitute research for purposes of this part, whether or not they are conducted or supported under a program which is considered “research” for other purposes. For example, some demonstration and service programs may include research/scientific activities.
Research misconduct.
Fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism in proposing, performing, or reviewing research, or in reporting research results. Research misconduct does not include honest error or differences of opinion.
Research record.
The record of data or results that embody the facts resulting from scientific inquiry, and includes, but is not limited to, research proposals, research records (including data, notes, journals, laboratory records (both physical and electronic)), progress reports, abstracts, theses, oral presentations, internal reports, and journal articles.
USDA.
United States Department of Agriculture.
USDA Research Integrity Officer (USDA RIO).
The individual designated by the Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics (REE) who is responsible for:
(1) Overseeing USDA agency responses to allegations of research misconduct;
(2) Ensuring that agency research misconduct procedures are consistent with this part;
(3) Receiving and assigning allegations of research misconduct reported by the public;
(4) Developing Memoranda of Understanding with agencies that elect not to develop their own research misconduct procedures;
(5) Monitoring the progress of all research misconduct cases; and
(6) Serving as liaison with OIG to receive allegations of research misconduct when they are received via the OIG Hotline.
§ 422.2
Procedures.
Research institutions that conduct extramural research funded by USDA must foster an atmosphere conducive to research integrity. They must develop or have procedures in place to respond to allegations of research misconduct that ensure:
(a) Appropriate separations of responsibility for inquiry, investigation, and adjudication;
(b) Objectivity;
(c) Due process;
(d) Whistleblower protection;
(e) Confidentiality—to the extent possible and consistent with a fair and thorough investigation and as allowed by law, knowledge about the identity of subjects and complainants is limited to those who need to know; and
(f) Timely resolution.
§ 422.3
Inquiry, investigation, and adjudication.
A research institution that conducts extramural research funded by USDA bears primary responsibility for prevention and detection of research misconduct and for the inquiry, investigation, and adjudication of research misconduct allegations reported directly to it. The research institution must perform an inquiry in response to an allegation, and must follow the inquiry with an investigation if the inquiry determines that the allegation or apparent instance of research misconduct has substance. The responsibilities for adjudication must be separate from those for inquiry and investigation. In most instances, USDA will rely on a research institution conducting extramural research to promptly:
(a) Initiate an inquiry into any suspected or alleged research misconduct;
(b) Conduct a subsequent investigation, if warranted;
(c) Acquire, prepare, and maintain appropriate records of allegations of extramural research misconduct and all related inquiries, investigations, and findings; and
(d) Take action to ensure the following:
(1) The integrity of research;
(2) The rights and interests of the subject of the investigation and the public are protected;
(3) The observance of legal requirements or responsibilities including cooperation with criminal investigations; and
(4) Appropriate safeguards for subjects of allegations, as well as complainants (see § 422.6). These safeguards should include timely written notification of subjects regarding substantive allegations made against them; a description of all such allegations; reasonable access to the data and other evidence supporting the allegations; and the opportunity to respond to allegations, the supporting evidence and the proposed findings of research misconduct, if any.
§ 422.4
USDA Panel to determine appropriateness of research misconduct policy.
Before USDA will rely on a research institution to conduct an inquiry, investigation, and adjudication of an allegation in accordance with this part, the research institution where the research misconduct is alleged must provide the ARIO its policies and procedures related to research misconduct at the institution. The research institution has the option of providing either a written copy of such policies and procedures or a website address where such policies and procedures can be accessed. The ARIO to whom the policies and procedures were made available must convene a panel comprised of the USDA RIO and ARIOs from the Forest Service, the Agricultural Research Service, and the National Institute of Food and Agriculture. The Panel will review the research institution's policies and procedures for compliance with the OSTP Policy and render a decision regarding the research institution's ability to adequately resolve research misconduct allegations. The ARIO will inform the research institution of the Panel's determination that its inquiry, investigation, and adjudication procedures are sufficient. If the Panel determines that the research institution does not have sufficient policies and procedures in place to conduct inquiry, investigation, and adjudication proceedings, or that the research institution is in any way unfit or unprepared to handle the inquiry, investigation, and adjudication in a prompt, unbiased, fair, and independent manner, the ARIO will inform the research institution in writing of the Panel's decision. An appropriate USDA agency, as determined by the Panel, will then conduct the inquiry, investigation, and adjudication of research misconduct in accordance with this part. If an allegation of research misconduct is made regarding extramural research conducted at a Federal research institution (whether USDA or not), it is presumed that the Federal research institution has research misconduct procedures consistent with the OSTP Policy. USDA reserves the right to convene the Panel to assess the sufficiency of a Federal agency's research misconduct procedures, should there be any question whether the agency's procedures will ensure a fair, unbiased, equitable, and independent inquiry, investigation, and adjudication process.
§ 422.5
Reservation of right to conduct subsequent inquiry, investigation, and adjudication.
(a) USDA reserves the right to conduct its own inquiry, investigation, and adjudication into allegations of research misconduct at a research institution conducting extramural research subsequent to the proceedings of the research institution related to the same allegation. This may be necessary if the USDA RIO or ARIO believes, using sound discretion, that despite the Panel's finding that the research institution in question had appropriate and OSTP-compliant research misconduct procedures in place, the research institution conducting the extramural research at issue:
(1) Did not adhere to its own research misconduct procedures;
(2) Did not conduct research misconduct proceedings in a fair, unbiased, or independent manner; or
(3) Has not completed research misconduct inquiry, investigation, or adjudication in a timely manner.
(b) Additionally, USDA reserves the right to conduct its own inquiry, investigation, and adjudication into allegations of research misconduct at a research institution conducting extramural research subsequent to the proceedings of the research institution related to the same allegation for any other reason that the USDA RIO or ARIO considers it appropriate to conduct research misconduct proceedings in lieu of the research institution's conducting the extramural research at issue. This right is subject to paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) In cases where the USDA RIO or ARIO believes it is necessary for USDA to conduct its own inquiry, investigation, and adjudication subsequent to the proceedings of the research institution related to the same allegation, the USDA RIO or ARIO will reconvene the Panel, which will determine whether it is appropriate for the relevant USDA agency to conduct the research misconduct proceedings related to the allegation(s) of research misconduct. If the Panel determines that it is appropriate for a USDA agency to conduct the proceedings, the ARIO will immediately notify the research institution in question. The research institution must then promptly provide the relevant USDA agency with documentation of the research misconduct proceedings the research institution has conducted to that point, and the USDA agency will conduct research misconduct proceedings in accordance with the Agency research misconduct procedures.
§ 422.6
Notification of USDA of allegations of research misconduct.
(a) Research institutions that conduct USDA-funded extramural research must promptly notify OIG and the USDA RIO of all allegations of research misconduct or violations of Federal criminal statutes involving USDA funds when the institution inquiry into the allegation warrants the institution moving on to an investigation.
(b) Individuals at research institutions who suspect research misconduct at the institution should report allegations in accordance with the institution's research misconduct policies and procedures. Anyone else who suspects that researchers or research institutions performing Federally funded research may have engaged in research misconduct is encouraged to make a formal allegation of research misconduct to OIG.
(1) OIG has established a hotline for USDA employees and the general public to report fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement in USDA programs including allegations of research misconduct. Complaints, which may be submitted anonymously, must be filed with the OIG by submitting a complaint via the hotline on OIG's public website, sending a fax, or writing a letter.
(i) The OIG hotline may be accessed at
https://usdaoig.oversight.gov/hotline.
(ii) Complainants who submit to the hotline on OIG's public website and who wish to provide additional documentation may fax them to (202) 690-2474.
(iii) Letters may be mailed to: United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Inspector General, P.O. Box 23399, Washington, DC 20026-3399.
(2) The USDA RIO may be reached at: USDA Research Integrity Officer, 214W Whitten Building, Washington, DC
20250. Telephone: (202) 690-0745. Email:
researchintegrity@usda.gov.
(c) To the extent known, the following details should be included in any formal allegation:
(1) The name of the research projects involved, the nature of the alleged misconduct, and the names of the individual or individuals alleged to be involved in the misconduct;
(2) The source or sources of funding for the research project or research projects involved in the alleged misconduct;
(3) Important dates;
(4) Any documentation that bears upon the allegation; and
(5) Any other potentially relevant information.
(d) Safeguards for complainants give individuals the confidence that they can bring allegations of research misconduct made in good faith to the attention of appropriate authorities or serve as complainants to an inquiry or an investigation without suffering retribution. Safeguards include protection against retaliation for complainants who make good faith allegations, fair and objective procedures for the examination and resolution of allegations of research misconduct, and diligence in protecting the positions and reputations of those persons who make allegations of research misconduct in good faith. The identity of complainants who wish to remain anonymous will be kept confidential to the extent permitted by law or regulation.
§ 422.7
Notification of ARIO during an inquiry or investigation.
(a) Research institutions that conduct USDA-funded extramural research must promptly notify the ARIO should the institution become aware during an inquiry or investigation that:
(1) Public health or safety is at risk;
(2) The resources, reputation, or other interests of USDA are in need of protection;
(3) Research activities should be suspended;
(4) Federal action may be needed to protect the interest of a subject of the investigation or of others potentially affected;
(5) A premature public disclosure of the inquiry into or investigation of the allegation may compromise the process;
(6) The scientific community or the public should be informed; or
(7) There is reasonable indication of possible violations of civil or criminal law.
(b) If research misconduct proceedings reveal behavior that may be criminal in nature at any point during the proceedings, the institution must promptly notify the ARIO.
§ 422.8
Communication of research misconduct policies and procedures.
Institutions that conduct USDA-funded extramural research are to maintain and effectively communicate to their staff policies and procedures relating to research misconduct, including the guidelines in this part. The institution is to inform their researchers and staff members who conduct USDA-funded extramural research when and under what circumstances USDA is to be notified of allegations of research misconduct, and when and under what circumstances USDA is to be updated on research misconduct proceedings.
§ 422.9
Documents required.
(a) A research institution that conducts USDA-funded extramural research must maintain the following documents related to an allegation of research misconduct at the research institution:
(1) A written statement describing the original allegation;
(2) A copy of the formal notification presented to the subject of the allegation;
(3) A written report describing the inquiry stage and its outcome including copies of all supporting documentation;
(4) A description of the methods and procedures used to gather and evaluate information pertinent to the alleged misconduct during inquiry and investigation stages;
(5) A written report of the investigation, including the evidentiary record and supporting documentation;
(6) A written statement of the findings; and
(7) If applicable, a statement of recommended corrective actions, and any
response to such a statement by the subject of the original allegation, and/or other interested parties, including any corrective action plan.
(b) The research institution must retain the documents specified in paragraph (a) of this section for at least 3 years following the final adjudication of the alleged research misconduct.
§ 422.10
Reporting to USDA.
Following completion of an investigation into allegations of research misconduct, the institution conducting extramural research must provide to the ARIO a copy of the evidentiary record, the report of the investigation, recommendations made to the institution's adjudicating official, the adjudicating official's determination, the institution's corrective action taken or planned, and the written response of the individual who is the subject of the allegation to any recommendations.
§ 422.11
Research records and evidence.
(a) A research institution that conducts extramural research supported by USDA funds, as the responsible legal entity for the USDA-supported research, has a continuing obligation to create and maintain adequate records (including documents and other evidentiary matter) as may be required by any subsequent inquiry, investigation, finding, adjudication, or other proceeding.
(b) Whenever an investigation is initiated, the research institution must promptly take all reasonable and practical steps to obtain custody of all relevant research records and evidence as may be necessary to conduct the research misconduct proceedings. This must be accomplished before the research institution notifies the researcher/respondent of the allegation, or immediately thereafter.
(c) The original research records and evidence taken into custody by the research institution must be inventoried and stored in a secure place and manner. Research records involving raw data must include the devices or instruments on which they reside. However, if deemed appropriate by the research institution or investigator, research data or records that reside on or in instruments or devices may be copied and removed from those instruments or devices as long as the copies are complete, accurate, and have substantially equivalent evidentiary value as the data or records have when the data or records reside on the instruments or devices. Such copies of data or records must be made by a disinterested, qualified technician and not by the subject of the original allegation or other interested parties. When the relevant data or records have been removed from the devices or instruments, the instruments or devices need not be maintained as evidence.
§ 422.12
Remedies for noncompliance.
USDA agencies' implementation procedures identify the administrative actions available to remedy a finding of research misconduct. Such actions may include the recovery of funds, correction of the research record, debarment of the researcher(s) that engaged in the research misconduct, proper attribution, or any other action deemed appropriate to remedy the instance(s) of research misconduct. The agency should consider the seriousness of the misconduct, including, but not limited to, the degree to which the misconduct was knowingly conducted, intentional, or reckless; was an isolated event or part of a pattern; or had significant impact on the research record, research subjects, other researchers, institutions, or the public welfare. In determining the appropriate administrative action, the appropriate agency must impose a remedy that is commensurate with the infraction as described in the finding of research misconduct.
§ 422.13
Appeals.
(a) If USDA relied on an institution to conduct an inquiry, investigation, and adjudication, the alleged person(s) should first follow the institution's appeal policy and procedures.
(b) USDA agencies' implementation procedures, which must be made available on a designated USDA public website, identify the appeal process when a finding of research misconduct is elevated to the agency.
§ 422.14
Relationship to other requirements.
Some of the research covered by this part also may be subject to regulations of other governmental agencies (
e.g.,
a university that receives funding from a USDA agency and also under a grant from another Federal agency). If more than one agency of the Federal Government has jurisdiction, USDA will cooperate with the other agency(ies) in designating a lead agency. When USDA is not the lead agency, it will rely on the lead agency following its policies and procedures in determining whether there is a finding of research misconduct. Further, USDA may, in consultation with the lead agency, take action to protect the health and safety of the public, to promote the integrity of the USDA-supported research and research process, or to conserve public funds. When appropriate, USDA will seek to resolve allegations jointly with the other agency or agencies.
Pt. 423

# PART 423—GEOSPATIAL DATA MANAGEMENT AND STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AWARDS
Sec.
423.1
What does this part do?
423.2
Disclosure of geospatial investments.

# Authority:
43 U.S.C. Ch. 46; 5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
89 FR 68337, Aug. 26, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 423.1
What does this part do?
This part implements the requirements at 43 U.S.C. 2808(b)(3) which pertain to the disclosure of USDA Federal financial assistance that involves geospatial data, as supplemented by this part.
§ 423.2
Disclosure of geospatial investments.
USDA awarding agencies must ensure that all Federal financial assistance instruments which involve the acquisition, storage, or distribution of geospatial data comply with USDA policy. For all such instruments, USDA awarding agencies must require award terms and conditions necessary for the specific purpose of complying with law, regulation, and USDA policy.
PARTS 424-499 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. VI (1-1-25 Edition)
Department of State

# CHAPTER VI—DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Part
Page
600
The uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards
285
601
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension
285
602-699
[Reserved]
Pt. 600

# PART 600—THE UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
Sec.
600.101
Applicability.
600.205
Federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.
600.315
Intangible property.
600.407
Prior written approval (prior approval).

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C 2651a, 22 U.S.C. 2151, 22 U.S.C. 2451, 22 U.S.C. 1461, 2 CFR part 200.

# Source:
79 FR 76019, Dec. 19, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 600.101
Applicability.
Under the authority listed above, the Department of State adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Guidance in 2 CFR part 200, except for:
(a) The Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards set forth in 2 CFR part 200 (Subparts A through F) shall apply to all non-Federal entities, except as noted below.
(b) Subparts A through E of 2 CFR part 200 shall apply to all foreign organizations not recognized as Foreign Public Entities and Subparts A through D of 2 CFR part 200 shall apply to all U.S. and foreign for-profit entities, except where the Federal awarding agency determines that the application of these subparts would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the statute or regulations of a foreign government. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) at 48 CFR part 30, Cost Accounting Standards, and Part 31 Contract Cost Principles and Procedures takes precedence over the cost principles in Subpart E for Federal awards to U.S. and foreign for-profit entities. Thus, this part gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance and supplements the guidance as needed for the Department.
§ 600.205
Federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants.
Use of 2 CFR 200.205 (the DOS review of risk posed by applicants) is required for all selected competitive and non-competitive awards.
§ 600.315
Intangible property.
If the DOS obtains research data solely in response to a FOIA request, the DOS may charge the requester fees consistent with the FOIA and applicable DOS regulations and policies.
§ 600.407
Prior written approval (prior approval).
The non-Federal entity must seek the prior written approval for indirect or special or unusual costs prior to incurring such costs where DOS is the cognizant agency.
Pt. 601

# PART 601—NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
Sec.
601.10
What does this part do?
601.20
Does this part apply to me?
601.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?

# Subpart A—General
601.137
Who in the Department of State may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
601.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
601.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
601.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
Subparts E-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions
601.930
Debarring Official (Department of State supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.930).
601.1010
Suspending Official (Department of State supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.1010).
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Authority:
Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108; Stat. 3327 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note); E.O. 12549; (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189); E.O. 12689 (3); CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235).

# Source:
72 FR 10034, Mar. 7, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 601.10
What does this part do?
This part adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this part, as the DOS policies and procedures for nonprocurement debarment and suspension. It thereby gives regulatory effect for DOS to the OMB guidance as supplemented by this part. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189); Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235); and section 2455 of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994, Pub. L. 103-355 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note).
§ 601.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 (see table at 2 CFR 180.100(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Participant or principal in a “covered transaction” (see subpart B of 2 CFR part 180 and the definition of “nonprocurement transaction” at 2 CFR 180.970);
(b) Respondent in a DOS suspension or debarment action;
(c) DOS debarment or suspension official; and
(d) DOS grants officer, agreements officer, or other official authorized to enter into any type of nonprocurement transaction that is a covered transaction.
§ 601.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
The DOS policies and procedures that you must follow are the policies and procedures specified in each applicable section of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 and any supplemental policies and procedures set forth in this part.

# Subpart A—General
§ 601.137
Who in the Department of State may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
The Procurement Executive, Office of the Procurement Executive, DOS, may grant an exception permitting an excluded person to participate in a particular covered transaction. If the Procurement Executive, Office of the Procurement Executive, DOS, grants an exception, the exception must be in writing and state the reason(s) for deviating from the government-wide policy in Executive Order 12549.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 601.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?
In addition to the contracts covered under 2 CFR 180.220(b) of the OMB guidance, this part applies to any contract, regardless of tier, that is awarded by a contractor, subcontractor, supplier, consultant, or its agent or representative in any transaction, if the contract is to be funded or provided by the DOS under a covered nonprocurement transaction and the amount of the contract is expected to equal or exceed $25,000. This extends the coverage of the DOS nonprocurement suspension and debarment requirements to all lower tiers of subcontracts under covered nonprocurement transactions, as permitted under the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.220(c) (see optional lower tier coverage in the figure in the appendix to 2 CFR part 180).

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
§ 601.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
You, as a participant, must include a term or condition in lower-tier transactions requiring lower-tier participants to comply with subpart C of the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this subpart.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 601.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
To communicate to a participant the requirements described in 2 CFR 180.435 of the OMB guidance, you must include a term or condition in the transaction that requires the participant's compliance with subpart C of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by subpart C of this part, and requires the participant to include a similar term or condition in lower-tier covered transactions.
Subparts E-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions
§ 601.930
Debarring Official (Department of State supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.930).
The Debarring Official for the Department of State is the Procurement Executive, Office of the Procurement Executive (A/OPE).
§ 601.1010
Suspending Official (Department of Energy supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.1010).
The Debarring Official for the Department of State is the Procurement Executive, Office of the Procurement Executive (A/OPE).
Subpart J [Reserved]
PARTS 602-699 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. VII (1-1-25 Edition)
Agency for International Development

# CHAPTER VII—AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Part
Page
700
Uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards
291
701
Partner vetting in USAID assistance
298
702-779
[Reserved]
780
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension
302
782
Requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance)
303
783-799
[Reserved]
Pt. 700

# PART 700—UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS

# Subpart A—Acronyms and Definitions
Sec.
700.0
Acronyms.
700.1
Definitions.

# Subpart B—General Provisions
700.2
Adoption of 2 CFR Part 200.
700.3
Applicability.
700.4
Exceptions.
700.5
Supersession.

# Subpart C—Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards
700.6
Metric system of measurement.
700.7
Advance payment.

# Subpart D—Post Federal Award Requirements
700.8
Payment.
700.9
Property standards.
700.10
Cost sharing.
700.11
Contracting with small and minority businesses, women's business enterprises, and labor surplus area firms.
700.12
Contract provisions.
700.13
Additional provisions for awards to for-profit entities.
700.14
Award Suspension and Termination.
700.15
Disputes.
Subpart E—Cost Principles [Reserved]
Subpart F—Audit Requirements [Reserved]

# Subpart G—USAID-Specific Requirements
700.16
Marking.

# Authority:
Sec. 621, Public L. 87-195, 75 Stat 445, (22 U.S.C. 2381) as amended, E.O. 12163, Sept 29, 1979, 44 FR 56673; 2 CFR 1979 Comp., p. 435.

# Source:
89 FR 63074, Aug. 2, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Acronyms and Definitions
§ 700.0
Acronyms.
[Reserved]
§ 700.1
Definitions.
These are the definitions for terms used in this part. Different definitions may be found in Federal statutes or regulations that apply more specifically to particular programs or activities.
Agreement Officer
means a person with the authority to enter into, administer, terminate, and closeout assistance agreements subject to this part, and make related determinations and findings on behalf of USAID. An Agreement Officer can only act within the scope of a duly authorized warrant or other valid delegation of authority. The term “Agreement Officer” includes persons warranted as “Grant Officers” and certain authorized representatives of the Agreement Officer acting within the limits of their authority as delegated by the Agreement Officer.
An apparently successful applicant
means the applicant for USAID funding that the Agreement Officer recommends for an award after merit review, but who has not yet been awarded a grant, cooperative agreement or other assistance award. Apparently successful applicant status confers no right and constitutes no USAID commitment to an award, which still must be executed by the Agreement Officer.
Award
has the same meaning as
Federal award
as defined in 2 CFR 200.1.
Commodities
mean any material, article, supply, goods or equipment, excluding recipient offices, vehicles, and non-deliverable items for recipient's internal use in administration of the USAID-funded grant, cooperative agreement, or other agreement or subaward.
End date
means the date on which the recipient or subrecipient completes all work under an award or the date on the award document, or any supplement or amendment, on which USAID sponsorship ends.
Program
means the organized set of activities directed toward a common purpose, objective, or goal that a recipient or subrecipient undertakes or proposes.
Suspension
means an action by USAID that temporarily withdraws Federal sponsorship under an award,
pending corrective action by the recipient or pending a decision to resume or terminate the award. Suspension of an award is a separate action from suspension under USAID regulations implementing E.O.s 12549 and 12689, “Debarment and Suspension.” See 2 CFR part 780.
USAID
means the United States Agency for International Development.

# Subpart B—General Provisions
§ 700.2
Adoption of 2 CFR Part 200.
Under the authority listed above, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance for Federal Financial Assistance (subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200), as supplemented by this part, as the USAID policies and procedures for Federal financial assistance administration. This part satisfies the requirements of 2 CFR 200.110(a) and gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance as supplemented by this part.
§ 700.3
Applicability.
(a) Subparts A through D of 2 CFR part 200 apply to for-profit entities located in the United States or its territories. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) at 48 CFR part 30, Cost Accounting Standards, and Part 31, Contract Cost Principles and Procedures, takes precedence over the cost principles in Subpart E for Federal awards to U.S. for-profit entities.
(b) Subpart E applies to foreign organizations and foreign public entities, except where the Federal agency determines that the application of these subparts would be inconsistent with the international responsibilities of the United States or the laws of a foreign government. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) at 48 CFR part 30, Cost Accounting Standards, and Part 31, Contract Cost Principles and Procedures, takes precedence over the cost principles in Subpart E for Federal awards to foreign for-profit entities.
§ 700.4
Exceptions.
Consistent with 2 CFR 200.102:
(a) USAID's Assistant Administrator, Bureau for Management, or designee as delegated in Agency policy, may authorize exceptions on a case-by-case basis for individual federal awards, recipients, or subrecipients except where otherwise required by law or where OMB or other approval is expressly required by this Part. No case-by-case exceptions may be granted to the provisions of Subpart F—Audit Requirements of this Part.
(b) USAID's Assistant Administrator, Bureau for Management, or designee as delegated in Agency policy, may authorize exceptions, on a class or an individual case basis, to USAID program specific assistance regulations other than those which implement statutory and executive order requirements.
(c) The Federal agency may apply more restrictive requirements to a class of Federal awards or non-Federal entities when approved by OMB, required by Federal statutes, or regulations except for the requirements in Subpart F—Audit Requirements of this part. The Federal agency may apply less restrictive requirements when making awards at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, or when making fixed amount awards as defined in Subpart A—Acronyms and Definitions of 2 CFR part 200, except for those requirements imposed by statute or in Subpart F—Audit Requirements of this part.
§ 700.5
Supersession.
Effective December 26, 2014, this part supersedes the following regulations under
Title 22 of the Code of Federal Regulations:
22 CFR part 226, “Administration of Assistance Awards To U.S. Non-Governmental Organizations.”

# Subpart C—Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards
§ 700.6
Metric system of measurement.
(a) The Metric Conversion Act, as amended by the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act (15 U.S.C. 205) declares that the metric system is the preferred measurement system for U.S. trade and commerce.
(b) Wherever measurements are required or authorized, the recipient must make, compute, and record in metric system units of measurement,
unless the Agreement Officer authorizes in writing that such usage is impractical or is likely to cause U.S. firms to experience significant inefficiencies or the loss of markets. Where the metric system is not the predominant standard for a particular application, the recipient may express the measurements in both the metric and the traditional equivalent units, provided the metric units are listed first.
§ 700.7
Advance payment.
Advance payment mechanisms include, but are not limited to, Letter of Credit, Treasury check and electronic funds transfer and must comply with applicable guidance in 31 CFR part 205.

# Subpart D—Post Federal Award Requirements
§ 700.8
Payment.
(a) Use of resources before requesting advance payments. To the extent available, the non-Federal entity must disburse funds available from program income (including repayments to a revolving fund), rebates, refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries, and interest earned on such funds before requesting additional cash payments. This paragraph is not applicable to such earnings which are generated as foreign currencies.
(b) Standards governing the use of banks and other institutions as depositories of advance payments under Federal awards are as follows:
(1) Except for situations described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, USAID does not require separate depository accounts for funds provided to a non-Federal entity or establish any eligibility requirements for depositories for funds provided to the non-Federal entity. However, the non-Federal entity must be able to account for receipt, obligation and expenditure of funds.
(2) Recipients must deposit and maintain advance payments of Federal funds in insured accounts whenever possible.
§ 700.9
Property standards.
(a)
Real property.
Unless the agreement provides otherwise, title to real property will vest in accordance with 2 CFR 200.311.
(b)
Equipment.
Unless the agreement provides otherwise, title to equipment will vest in accordance with 2 CFR 200.313.
§ 700.10
Cost sharing.
(a) “Unrecovered indirect costs” has the same meaning as in 2 CFR 200.306(c).
(b) Unrecovered indirect costs, including indirect costs on cost sharing, may be included as part of cost sharing.
§ 700.11
Contracting with small and minority businesses, women's business enterprises, and labor surplus area firms.
(a) To permit USAID, in accordance with the small business provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, to give United States small business firms an opportunity to participate in supplying commodities and services procured under the award, the recipient should provide the following information to the Office of Small Disadvantaged Business Utilization (OSDBU), USAID, Washington, DC 20523, at least 45 days prior to placing any order or contract in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold:
(1) Brief general description and quantity of goods or services;
(2) Closing date for receiving quotations, proposals or bids; and
(3) Address where solicitations or specifications can be obtained.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 700.12
Contract provisions.
(a) The recipient or subrecipient's contracts must contain the applicable provisions described in Appendix II to Part 200.
(b) All negotiated contracts (except those for less than the simplified acquisition threshold) awarded by the recipient or subrecipient must include a provision to the effect that the recipient or subrecipient, USAID, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, must have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the contractor which are directly pertinent to a specific program for the purpose of making audits, examinations, excerpts and transcriptions.
§ 700.13
Additional provisions for awards to for-profit entities.
(a) This paragraph contains additional provisions that apply to awards to for-profit entities. These provisions supplement and make exceptions for awards to for-profit entities from other provisions of this part.
(1) Prohibition against profit. The agency or pass-through entity will not provide funds as profit to any for-profit entity receiving or administering Federal financial assistance as a recipient or subrecipient. Federal financial assistance does not include contracts as defined at 2 CFR 200.1, other contracts a Federal agency uses to buy goods or services from a contractor, or contracts to operate Federal government owned, contractor operated facilities (GOCOs). Profit is any amount in excess of allowable direct and indirect costs.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) [Reserved]
§ 700.14
Award Suspension and Termination.
If at any time USAID determines that continuation of all or part of the funding for a program should be suspended or terminated because such assistance would not be in the national interest of the United States or would be in violation of an applicable law, then USAID may, following notice to the recipient, suspend or terminate the award in whole or in part and prohibit the recipient from incurring additional obligations chargeable to the award other than those costs specified in the notice of suspension. If a suspension is put into effect and the situation causing the suspension continues for 60 calendar days or more, then USAID may terminate the award in whole or in part on written notice to the recipient and cancel any portion of the award which has not been disbursed or irrevocably committed to third parties.
§ 700.15
Disputes.
(a) The USAID Agreement Officer will decide any dispute under or relating to Federal financial assistance. The Agreement Officer must furnish the recipient a written copy of the decision.
(b) Decisions of the USAID Agreement Officer will be final unless, within 30 calendar days of receipt of the decision, the recipient appeals the decision to USAID's Assistant Administrator, Bureau for Management, or designee as delegated in Agency policy. Appeals must be in writing with a copy concurrently furnished to the Agreement Officer.
(c) In order to facilitate review of the record by the USAID's Assistant Administrator, Bureau for Management, or designee as delegated in Agency policy, the recipient will be given an opportunity to submit written evidence in support of its appeal. No hearing will be provided.
(d) Decisions by the Assistant Administrator, Bureau for Management, or designee as delegated in Agency policy, will be final.
Subpart E—Cost Principles [Reserved]
Subpart F—Audit Requirements [Reserved]

# Subpart G—USAID-Specific Requirements
§ 700.16
Marking.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Activity
means a set of a recipient or subrecipient's actions using resources—such as commodities, technical assistance, or training to produce specific results, such as vaccinations given, schools built, microenterprise loans issued, or policies changed. The recipient or subrecipient undertakes activities to achieve the formally approved objectives of the award.
(2)
Branding strategy
means a strategy the apparently successful applicant or recipient submits describing how they will name and position the program, project, or activity and how they will promote and communicate it to beneficiaries and cooperating country citizens. In the branding strategy, the apparently successful applicant or recipient identifies all donors and explains how they will be acknowledged.
(3)
Marking plan
means a plan that the apparently successful applicant or recipient submits after merit review of
an application for USAID funding, detailing the public communications, commodities, and program materials and other items that will visibly bear the USAID Identity.
(4)
Public communications
are documents and messages the recipient or subrecipient intends to distribute to external audiences. They include, but are not limited to, correspondence, publications, studies, reports, audio-visual productions, and other informational products; applications, forms, press and promotional materials used in connection with USAID-funded programs, projects or activities, including signage and plaques; websites/internet activities; and events such as training courses, conferences, seminars, and press conferences.
(5)
USAID Identity
(Identity) means the official marking for the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) comprised of the USAID logo or seal and new brandmark with the tagline that clearly communicates our assistance is “from the American people.” Upon a written determination by the USAID Administrator, or delegate, the definition of the USAID Identity may be amended to include additional or substitute use of a logo or seal and tagline representing a presidential initiative or other high level interagency Federal initiative that requires consistent and uniform branding and marking by all participating agencies. The USAID Identity (including any required additional insignia or related identity) is available on the USAID website at
https://www.usaid.gov/branding
and is provided without royalty, license or other fee to recipients of USAID funded grants or cooperative agreements or other assistance awards.
(6)
Principal officer
means the most senior officer in an USAID Operating Unit in the field, for example, a USAID Mission Director or USAID Representative. For global programs managed from Washington but executed across many countries, such as disaster relief programs and assistance to internally displaced persons, humanitarian emergencies or immediate post conflict and political crisis responses, the cognizant Principal Officer may be an Office Director, for example, the Directors of USAID/W/Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance and Office of Transition Initiatives. For non-presence countries, the cognizant Principal Officer is the Senior USAID officer in a regional USAID Operating Unit responsible for the non-presence country, or in the absence of such a responsible operating unit, the Principal U.S Diplomatic Officer in the non-presence country exercising delegated authority from USAID.
(b) USAID policy is that a recipient or subrecipient must mark all programs, projects, activities, public communications, and commodities, specified further at paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section, partially or fully funded by a USAID grant or cooperative agreement or other assistance award or subaward with the USAID Identity, of a size and prominence equivalent to or greater than the recipient's, other donor's or any other third party's identity or logo.
(1) USAID reserves the right to require the USAID Identity to be larger and more prominent if it is the majority donor, or to require that a cooperating country government's identity be larger and more prominent if circumstances warrant; any such requirement will be on a case-by-case basis depending on the audience, program goals and materials produced.
(2) USAID reserves the right to request pre-production review of USAID funded public communications and program materials for compliance with the approved Marking Plan.
(3) USAID reserves the right to require marking with the USAID Identity in the event the recipient does not choose to mark with its own identity or logo.
(4) Recipients of USAID funded grants and cooperative agreements or other assistance awards must include a USAID-approved marking provision in any USAID funded subaward, to read as follows:
As a condition of receipt of this subaward, marking with the USAID Identity of a size and prominence equivalent to or greater than the recipient's, subrecipient's, other donor's or third party's is required. In the event the recipient chooses not to require marking with its own identity or logo by the subrecipient, USAID may, at its discretion,
require marking by the subrecipient with the USAID Identity.
(c) Subject to § 700.16(b), (i), and (k), the recipient or subrecipient must mark program, project, or activity sites funded by USAID, including visible infrastructure projects (for example, roads, bridges, buildings) or other programs, projects, or activities that are physical in nature (for example, agriculture, forestry, water management), with the USAID Identity. The recipient or subrecipient should erect temporary signs or plaques early in the construction or implementation phase. When construction or implementation is complete, the recipient or subrecipient must install a permanent, durable sign, plaque or other marking.
(d) Subject to § 700.16(b), (i), and (k), the recipient or subrecipient must mark technical assistance, studies, reports, papers, publications, audio-visual productions, public service announcements, websites/internet activities and other promotional, informational, media, or communications products funded by USAID with the USAID Identity.
(1) Any “public communications” as defined in § 700.1, funded by USAID, in which the content has not been approved by USAID, must contain the following disclaimer:
This study/report/audio/visual/other information/media product (specify) is made possible by the generous support of the American people through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). The contents are the responsibility of [insert recipient name] and do not necessarily reflect the views of USAID or the United States Government.
(2) The recipient must provide the Agreement Officer's Representative (AOR) or other USAID personnel designated in the grant or cooperative agreement with at least two copies of all program and communications materials produced under the award. In addition, the recipient must submit one electronic and/or one hard copy of all final documents to USAID's Development Experience Clearinghouse.
(e) Subject to § 700.16(b), (i), and (k), the recipient or subrecipient must mark events financed by USAID such as training courses, conferences, seminars, exhibitions, fairs, workshops, press conferences and other public activities, with the USAID Identity. Unless directly prohibited and as appropriate to the surroundings, recipients should display additional materials such as signs and banners with the USAID Identity. In circumstances in which the USAID Identity cannot be displayed visually, recipients should otherwise acknowledge USAID and the American people's support.
(f) Subject to § 700.16(b), (i), and (k), the recipient or subrecipient must mark all commodities financed by USAID, including commodities or equipment provided under humanitarian assistance or disaster relief programs, and all other equipment, supplies and other materials funded by USAID, and their export packaging, with the USAID Identity.
(g) After merit review of applications for USAID funding, USAID Agreement Officers will request apparently successful applicants to submit a Branding Strategy, defined in § 700.1. The proposed Branding Strategy will not be evaluated competitively. The Agreement Officer will review the proposed Branding Strategy for adequacy, and will negotiate, approve and include the Branding Strategy in the award. The Agreement Officer will specify the timeline for submission in the Notice of Funding Opportunity. If the Notice of Funding Opportunity indicates that the apparently successful applicant may submit a Branding Strategy after the award is made, the Agreement Officer must include a special award condition to indicate the required submission date. If the Agreement Officer requires submission before award, failure to submit or negotiate a Branding Strategy within the time specified by the Agreement Officer will make the apparently successful applicant ineligible for award.
(h) After merit review of applications for USAID funding, USAID Agreement Officers will request apparently successful applicants to submit a Marking Plan, defined in § 700.1. The Marking Plan may include requests for approval of Presumptive Exceptions, paragraph (i) of this section. The apparently successful applicant must include all estimated costs associated with branding and marking USAID programs, such as plaques, labels, banners, press events,
promotional materials, and the like, in the total cost estimate of the grant or cooperative agreement or other assistance award. These costs are subject to revision and negotiation with the Agreement Officer upon submission of the Marking Plan. The Marking Plan will not be evaluated competitively. The Agreement Officer will review the proposed Marking Plan for adequacy, and will negotiate, approve and include the Marking Plan in the award. The Agreement Officer will specify the timeline for submission in the Notice of Funding Opportunity. If the Notice of Funding Opportunity indicates that the apparently successful applicant may submit a Marking Plan after the award is made, the Agreement Officer must include a special award condition to indicate the required submission date. If the Agreement Officer requires submission before award, failure to submit or negotiate a Marking Plan within the time specified by the Agreement Officer will make the apparently successful applicant ineligible for award. Agreement Officers have the discretion to suspend the implementation requirements of the Marking Plan if circumstances warrant. Recipients of a USAID funded grant or cooperative agreement or other assistance award or subaward should retain copies of any specific marking instructions or waivers in their project, program or activity files.
(i) Presumptive exceptions:
(1) The above marking requirements in § 700.16(b) through (f) may not apply if marking would:
(i) Compromise the intrinsic independence or neutrality of a program or materials where independence or neutrality is an inherent aspect of the program and materials, such as election monitoring or ballots, and voter information literature; political party support or public policy advocacy or reform; independent media, such as television and radio broadcasts, newspaper articles and editorials; public service announcements or public opinion polls and surveys.
(ii) Diminish the credibility of audits, reports, analyses, studies, or policy recommendations whose data or findings must be seen as independent.
(iii) Undercut host-country government “ownership” of constitutions, laws, regulations, policies, studies, assessments, reports, publications, surveys or audits, public service announcements, or other communications better positioned as “by” or “from” a cooperating country ministry or government official.
(iv) Impair the functionality of an item, such as sterilized equipment or spare parts.
(v) Incur substantial costs or be impractical, such as items too small or other otherwise unsuited for individual marking, such as food in bulk.
(vi) Offend local cultural or social norms, or be considered inappropriate on such items as condoms, toilets, bed pans, or similar commodities.
(vii) Conflict with international law.
(2) The Agreement Officer must approve these exceptions. Apparently successful applicants may request approval of one or more of the presumptive exceptions, depending on the circumstances, in their Marking Plan. The Agreement Officer will review requests for presumptive exceptions for adequacy, along with the rest of the Marking Plan. When reviewing a request for approval of a presumptive exception, the Agreement Officer may review how program materials will be marked (if at all) if the USAID identity is removed. Exceptions approved will apply to subrecipients unless otherwise provided by USAID.
(j) In cases where the recipient does not comply with the Marking Plan, the Agreement Officer will initiate corrective action. Such action may involve informing the recipient of a USAID grant or cooperative agreement or other assistance award or subaward of instances of noncompliance and requesting that the recipient carry out its responsibilities as set forth in the Marking Plan and award. Major or repeated non compliance with the Marking Plan will be governed by the uniform suspension and termination procedures set forth at 2 CFR 200.340 through 2 CFR 200.343, and 2 CFR 700.14.
(k)(1)
Waivers.
USAID Principal Officers may at any time after award waive in whole or in part the USAID approved Marking Plan, including USAID marking requirements for each
USAID funded program, project, activity, public communication or commodity, or in exceptional circumstances may make a waiver by region or country, if the Principal Officer determines that otherwise USAID required marking would pose compelling political, safety, or security concerns, or marking would have an adverse impact in the cooperating country. USAID recipients may request waivers of the Marking Plan in whole or in part, through the AOR. No marking is required while a waiver determination is pending. The Principal Officer must make the waiver determination on safety or security grounds in consultation with U.S. Government security personnel if available, and must consider the same information that applies to determinations of the safety and security of U.S. Government employees in the cooperating country, as well as any information supplied by the AOR or the recipient for whom the waiver is sought. When reviewing a request for approval of a waiver, the Principal Officer may review how program materials will be marked (if at all) if the USAID Identity is removed. Approved waivers are not limited in duration but are subject to Principal Officer review at any time due to changed circumstances. Approved waivers “flow down” to recipients of subawards unless specified otherwise. Principal Officers may also authorize the removal of USAID markings already affixed if circumstances warrant. Principal Officers' determinations regarding waiver requests are subject to appeal to the Principal Officer's cognizant Assistant Administrator. Recipients may appeal by submitting a written request to reconsider the Principal Officer's waiver determination to the cognizant Assistant Administrator.
(2)
Non-retroactivity.
Marking requirements apply to any obligation of USAID funds for new awards as of January 2, 2006. Marking requirements also will apply to new obligations under existing awards, such as incremental funding actions, as of January 2, 2006, when the total estimated cost of the existing award has been increased by USAID or the scope of effort is changed to accommodate any costs associated with marking. In the event a waiver is rescinded, the marking requirements will apply from the date forward that the waiver is rescinded. In the event a waiver is rescinded after the period of performance but before closeout as defined in 2 CFR 200.1, the USAID mission or operating unit with initial responsibility to administer the marking requirements must make a cost benefit analysis as to requiring USAID marking requirements after the end date of the affected programs, projects, activities, public communications or commodities.
(l) USAID will provide the USAID Identity and other guidance at no cost or fee to recipients of USAID grants, cooperative agreements or other assistance awards or subawards. USAID will fund additional costs associated with marking requirements if reasonable, allowable, and allocable under 2 CFR part 200, subpart E. Recipients must follow the standard cost reimbursement provisions of the grant, cooperative agreement, other assistance award or subaward when applying for reimbursement of additional marking costs.
Pt. 701

# PART 701—PARTNER VETTING IN USAID ASSISTANCE
Sec.
701.1
Definitions.
701.2
Applicability.
701.3
Partner vetting.
Appendix B to Part 701—Partner Vetting Pre-Award Requirements and Award Term.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2251
et seq.;
22 U.S.C. 2151t, 22 U.S.C. 2151a, 2151b, 2151c, and 2151d; 22 U.S.C. 2395(b).

# Source:
80 FR 36705, June 26, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 701.1
Definitions.
This section contains the definitions for terms used in this part. Other terms used in the part are defined at 2 CFR part 200. Different definitions may be found in Federal statutes or regulations that apply more specifically to particular programs or activities.
Key individual
means the principal officer of the organization's governing body (for example, chairman, vice chairman, treasurer and secretary of the board of directors or board of trustees); the principal officer and deputy
principal officer of the organization (for example, executive director, deputy director, president, vice president); the program manager or chief of party for the USG-financed program; and any other person with significant responsibilities for administration of the USG-financed activities or resources, such as key personnel as identified in the solicitation or resulting cooperative agreement. Key personnel, whether or not they are employees of the prime recipient, must be vetted.
Key personnel
means those individuals identified for approval as part of substantial involvement in a cooperative agreement whose positions are essential to the successful implementation of an award.
Vetting official
means the USAID employee identified in the application or award as having responsibility for receiving vetting information, responding to questions about information to be included on the Partner Information Form, coordinating with the USAID Office of Security (SEC), and conveying the vetting determination to each applicant, potential subrecipients and contractors subject to vetting, and the agreement officer. The vetting official is not part of the office making the award selection and has no involvement in the selection process.
§ 701.2
Applicability.
The requirements established in this part apply to non-Federal entities, non-profit organizations, for-profit entities, and foreign organizations.
§ 701.3
Partner vetting.
(a) It is USAID policy that USAID may determine that a particular award is subject to vetting in the interest of national security. In that case, USAID may require vetting of the key individuals of applicants, including key personnel, whether or not they are employees of the applicant, first tier subrecipients, contractors, and any other class of subawards and procurements as identified in the assistance solicitation and resulting award. When USAID conducts partner vetting, it will not award to any applicant who determined ineligible by the vetting process.
(b) When USAID determines an award to be subject to vetting, the agreement officer determines the appropriate stage of the award cycle to require applicants to submit the completed USAID Partner Information Form, USAID Form 500-13, to the vetting official identified in the assistance solicitation. The agreement officer must specify in the assistance solicitation the stage at which the applicants will be required to submit the USAID Partner Information Form, USAID Form 500-13. As a general matter those applicants who will be vetted will be typically the applicants that have been determined to be apparently successful.
(c) Selection of the successful applicant proceeds separately from vetting. The agreement officer makes the selection determination separately from the vetting process and without knowledge of vetting-related information other than that, based on the vetting results, the apparently successful applicant is eligible or ineligible for an award. However, no applicants will be excluded from an award until after vetting has been completed.
(d) For those awards the agency has determined are subject to vetting, the agreement officer may only award to an applicant that has been determined to be eligible after completion of the vetting process.
(e)(1) For those awards the agency has determined are subject to vetting, the recipient must submit the completed USAID Partner Information Form any time it changes:
(i) Key individuals; or
(ii) Subrecipients and contractors for which vetting is required.
(2) The recipient must submit the completed Partner Information Form within 15 days of the change in either paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(f) USAID may vet key individuals of the recipient, subrecipients and contractors periodically during program implementation using information already submitted on the Form.
(g) When the prime recipient is subject to vetting, vetting may be required for key individuals of subawards when the prime recipient requests prior approval in accordance with 2 CFR 200.308(c)(6) for the subaward, transfer, or contracting out of any work.
(h) When the prime recipient is subject to vetting, vetting may be required for key individuals of contractors of certain services. The agreement officer must identify these services in the assistance solicitation and any resulting award.
(i) When vetting of subawards is required, the agreement officer must not approve the subaward, transfer, or contracting out, or the procurement of certain classes of items until the organization subject to vetting has been determined eligible. When vetting of contractors is required, the recipient may not procure the identified services until the contractor has been determined to be eligible.
(j) The recipient may instruct prospective subrecipients or, when applicable contractors who are subject to vetting to submit the USAID Partner Information Form to the vetting official as soon as the recipient submits the USAID Partner Information Form for its key individuals.
(k)
Pre-award provision and award term.
(1) The agreement officer must insert the pre-award provision Partner Vetting Pre-Award Requirements in Appendix B of this part in all assistance solicitations USAID identifies as subject to vetting.
(2) The agreement officer must insert the award term Partner Vetting in Appendix B in all assistance solicitations and awards USAID identifies as subject to vetting.
Pt. 701, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 701—Partner Vetting Pre-Award Requirements and Award Term

# Partner Vetting Pre-Award Requirements
(a) USAID has determined that any award resulting from this assistance solicitation is subject to vetting. An applicant that has not passed vetting is ineligible for award.
(b) The following are the vetting procedures for this solicitation:
(1) Prospective applicants review the attached USAID Partner Information Form, USAID Form 500-13, and submit any questions about the USAID Partner Information Form or these procedures to the agreement officer by the deadline in the solicitation.
(2) The agreement officer notifies the applicant when to submit the USAID Partner Information Form. For this solicitation, USAID will vet [insert in the provision the applicable stage of the selection process at which the Agreement Officer will notify the applicant(s) who must be vetted]. Within the timeframe set by the agreement officer in the notification, the applicant must complete and submit the USAID Partner Information Form to the vetting official. The designated vetting official is:
Vetting official:
Address:
Email:
(for inquiries only).
(3) The applicants must notify proposed subrecipients and contractors of this requirement when the subrecipients or contractors are subject to vetting.

# Note:
Applicants who submit using non-secure methods of transmission do so at their own risk.
(c) Selection proceeds separately from vetting. Vetting is conducted independently from any discussions the agreement officer may have with an applicant. The applicant and any proposed subrecipient or contractor subject to vetting must not provide vetting information to anyone other than the vetting official. The applicant and any proposed subrecipient or contractor subject to vetting will communicate only with the vetting official regarding their vetting submission(s) and not with any other USAID or USG personnel, including the agreement officer or the agreement officer's representatives. The agreement officer designates the vetting official as the only individual authorized to clarify the applicant's and proposed subrecipient's and contractor's vetting information.
(d)(1) The vetting official notifies the applicant that it: (i) Is eligible based on the vetting results, (ii) is ineligible based on the vetting results, or (iii) must provide additional information, and resubmit the USAID Partner Information Form with the additional information within the number of days the vetting official specified in the notification.
(2) The vetting official will coordinate with the agency that provided the data being used for vetting prior to notifying the applicant or releasing any information. In any determination for release of information, the classification and sensitivity of the information, the need to protect sources and methods, and the status of ongoing law enforcement and intelligence community investigations or operations will be taken into consideration.
(e) Reconsideration: (1) Within 7 calendar days after the date of the vetting official's notification, an applicant that vetting has determined to be ineligible may request in writing to the vetting official that the Agency reconsider the vetting determination. The request should include any written explanation, legal documentation and any other
relevant written material for reconsideration.
(2) Within 7 calendar days after the vetting official receives the request for reconsideration, the Agency will determine whether the applicant's additional information merits a revised decision.
(3) The Agency's determination of whether reconsideration is warranted is final.
(f) Revisions to vetting information: (1) Applicants who change key individuals, whether the applicant has previously been determined eligible or not, must submit a revised USAID Partner Information Form to the vetting official. This includes changes to key personnel resulting from revisions to the technical portion of the application.
(2) The vetting official will follow the vetting process of this provision for any revision of the applicant's Form.
(g) Award. At the time of award, the agreement officer will confirm with the vetting official that the apparently successful applicant is eligible after vetting. The agreement officer may award only to an apparently successful applicant that is eligible after vetting.

# Partner Vetting
(a) The recipient must comply with the vetting requirements for key individuals under this award.
(b) Definitions: As used in this provision, “key individual,” “key personnel,” and “vetting official” have the meaning contained in 22 CFR 701.1.
(c) The Recipient must submit within 15 days a USAID Partner Information Form, USAID Form 500-13, to the vetting official identified below when the Recipient replaces key individuals with individuals who have not been previously vetted for this award. Note: USAID will not approve any key personnel who are not eligible for approval after vetting. The designated vetting official is:
Vetting official:
Address:
Email:
(for inquiries only).
(d)(1) The vetting official will notify the Recipient that it—
(i) Is eligible based on the vetting results,
(ii) Is ineligible based on the vetting results, or
(iii) Must provide additional information, and resubmit the USAID Partner Information Form with the additional information within the number of days the vetting official specifies.
(2) The vetting official will include information that USAID determines releasable. USAID will determine what information may be released consistent with applicable law and Executive Orders, and with the concurrence of relevant agencies.
(e) The inability to be deemed eligible as described in this award term may be determined to be a material failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the award and may subject the recipient to suspension or termination as specified in the subpart “Remedies for Noncompliance” at 2 CFR part 200.
(f) Reconsideration: (1) Within 7 calendar days after the date of the vetting official's notification, the recipient or prospective subrecipient or contractor that has not passed vetting may request in writing to the vetting official that the Agency reconsider the vetting determination. The request should include any written explanation, legal documentation and any other relevant written material for reconsideration.
(2) Within 7 calendar days after the vetting official receives the request for reconsideration, the Agency will determine whether the recipient's additional information merits a revised decision.
(3) The Agency's determination of whether reconsideration is warranted is final.
(g) A notification that the Recipient has passed vetting does not constitute any other approval under this award.
Alternate I. When subrecipients will be subject to vetting, add the following paragraphs to the basic award term:
(h) When the prime recipient anticipates that it will require prior approval for a subaward in accordance with 2 CFR 200.308(c)(6) the subaward is subject to vetting. The prospective subrecipient must submit a USAID Partner Information Form, USAID Form 500-13, to the vetting official identified in paragraph (c) of this provision. The agreement officer must not approve a subaward to any organization that has not passed vetting when required.
(i) The recipient agrees to incorporate the substance of paragraphs (a) through (i) of this award term in all first tier subawards under this award.
Alternate II. When specific classes of services are subject to vetting, add the following paragraph:
(j) Prospective contractors at any tier providing the following classes of services
must pass vetting. Recipients must not procure these services until they receive confirmation from the vetting official that the prospective contractor has passed vetting. (End of award term)
PARTS 702-779 [RESERVED]
Pt. 780

# PART 780—NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
Sec.
780.10
What does this part do?
780.20
Does this part apply to me?
780.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?

# Subpart A—General
780.137
Who in USAID may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
780.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
780.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
780.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
Subparts E-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions
780.930
Debarring Official (Agency for International Development supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.930).
780.1010
Suspending Official (Agency for International Development supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.1010).
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Authority:
Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327; E.O. 12549, 3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189; E.O. 12689, 3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235.

# Source:
76 FR 34144, June 13, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 780.10
What does this part do?
This part adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this part, as the USAID policies and procedures for non-procurement debarment and suspension. It thereby gives regulatory effect for USAID to the OMB guidance as supplemented by this part. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189); Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235); and section 2455 of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994, Public Law 103-355 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note).
§ 780.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 (see table at 2 CFR 180.100(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Participant or principal in a “covered transaction” (see subpart B of 2 CFR part 180 and the definition of “non-procurement transaction” at 2 CFR 180.970);
(b) Respondent in a USAID suspension or debarment action;
(c) USAID debarment or suspension official; and
(d) USAID grants officer, agreements officer, or other official authorized to enter into any type of non-procurement transaction that is a covered transaction.
§ 780.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
The USAID policies and procedures that you must follow are the policies and procedures specified in each applicable section of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 and any supplemental policies and procedures set forth in this part.

# Subpart A—General
§ 780.137
Who in USAID may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
The Assistant Administrator, Bureau for Management, or designee as delegated in Agency policy found in ADS 103—Delegations of Authority, may grant an exception permitting an excluded person to participate in a particular covered transaction. If the Assistant Administrator, Bureau for Management or designee, grants an exception, the exception must be in writing and state the reason(s) for deviating
from the government-wide policy in Executive Order 12549.
[80 FR 12915, Mar. 12, 2015]

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 780.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?
In addition to the contracts covered under 2 CFR 180.220(b) of the OMB guidance, this part applies to any contract, regardless of tier, that is awarded by a contractor, subcontractor, supplier, consultant, or its agent or representative in any transaction, if the contract is to be funded or provided by the USAID under a covered non-procurement transaction and the amount of the contract is expected to equal or exceed $25,000. This extends the coverage of the USAID non-procurement suspension and debarment requirements to all lower tiers of subcontracts under covered non-procurement transactions, as permitted under the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.220(c) (see optional lower tier coverage in the figure in the appendix to 2 CFR part 180).

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
§ 780.332
What requirements must I pass down to persons at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
You, as a participant, must include a term or condition in lower-tier transactions requiring lower-tier participants to comply with subpart C of the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this subpart.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 780.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
To communicate to a participant the requirements described in 2 CFR 180.435 of the OMB guidance, you must include a term or condition in the transaction that requires the participant's compliance with subpart C of 2 CFR part 180, and supplemented by subpart C of this part, and requires the participant to include a similar term or condition in lower-tier covered transactions.
Subparts E-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions
§ 780.930
Debarring Official (Agency for International Development supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.930).
The
Debarring Official
for USAID is the Assistant Administrator, Bureau for Management, or designee as delegated in Agency policy found in ADS 103—Delegations of Authority.
[80 FR 12916, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 780.1010
Suspending Official (Agency for International Development supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.1010).
The
Suspending Official
for USAID is the Assistant Administrator, Bureau for Management, or designee as delegated in Agency policy found in ADS 103—Delegations of Authority.
[80 FR 12916, Mar. 12, 2015]
Subpart J [Reserved]
Pt. 782

# PART 782—REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE)
Sec.
782.10
What does this part do?
782.20
Does this part apply to me?
782.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
782.225
Whom in USAID does a recipient other than an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
782.300
Whom in USAID does a recipient who is an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Agency Awarding Officials
782.400
What method do I use as an agency awarding official to obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with the OMB guidance?

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
782.500
Who in USAID determines that a recipient other than an individual violated the requirements of this part?
782.505
Who in USAID determines that a recipient who is an individual violated the requirements of this part?

# Subpart F—Definitions
782.605
Award (USAID Supplement to Government Wide Definition at 2 CFR 182.605).

# Authority:
41 U.S.C. 701-707.

# Source:
76 FR 34574, June 14, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 782.10
What does this part do?
This part requires that the award and administration of USAID grants and cooperative agreements comply with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance implementing the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701-707, as amended, hereafter referred to as “the Act”) that applies to grants. It thereby—
(a) Gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance (Subparts A through F of 2 CFR Part 182) for USAID's grants and cooperative agreements; and
(b) Establishes USAID policies and procedures for compliance with the Act that are the same as those of other Federal agencies, in conformance with the requirement in 41 U.S.C. 705 for Government wide implementing regulations.
§ 782.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182 (see table at 2 CFR 182.115(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Recipient of a USAID grant or cooperative agreement; or
(b) USAID awarding official.
§ 782.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
(a)
General.
You must follow the policies and procedures specified in applicable sections of the OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(b)
Specific sections of OMB guidance that this part supplements.
In implementing the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 182, this part supplements four sections of the guidance, as shown in the following table. For each of those sections, you must follow the policies and procedures in the OMB guidance, as supplemented by this part.
Section of OMB guidance
Section in this part where supplemented
What the supplementation clarifies
(1) 2 CFR 182.225(a)
§ 782.225
Whom in USAID a recipient other than an individual must notify if an employee is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute in the workplace.
(2) 2 CFR 182.300(b)
§ 782.300
Whom in USAID a recipient who is an individual must notify if he or she is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
(3) 2 CFR 182.500
§ 782.500
Who in USAID is authorized to determine that a recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(4) 2 CFR 182.505
§ 782.505
Who in USAID is authorized to determine that a recipient who is an individual is in violation of the requirements of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(c)
Sections of the OMB guidance that this part does not supplement.
For any section of OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182 that is not listed in paragraph (b) of this section, USAID policies and procedures are the same as those in the OMB guidance.
Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
§ 782.225
Whom in USAID does a recipient other than an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?
A recipient other than an individual that is required under 2 CFR 182.225(a) to notify Federal agencies about an employee's conviction for a criminal drug offense must notify—
(a) Federal agencies if an employee who is engaged in the performance of an award informs you about a conviction, or you otherwise learn of the conviction. Your notification to the Federal agencies must—
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Include the employee's position title;
(3) Include the identification number(s) of each affected award;
(4) Be sent within ten calendar days after you learn of the conviction; and
(5) Be sent to every Federal agency on whose award the convicted employee was working. It must be sent to every awarding official or his or her official designee, unless the Federal agency has specified a central point for the receipt of the notices.
(b) Within 30 calendar days of learning about an employee's conviction, you must either—
(1) Take appropriate personnel action against the employee, up to and including termination, consistent with the requirements of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), as amended; or
(2) Require the employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for these purposes by a Federal, State or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
§ 782.300
Whom in USAID does a recipient who is an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?
A recipient who is an individual and is required under 2 CFR 182.300(b) to notify Federal agencies about a conviction for a criminal drug offense must notify each USAID office from which it currently has an award.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Agency Awarding Officials
§ 782.400
What method do I use as an agency awarding official to obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with the OMB guidance?
To obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with applicable requirements in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 182, you must include the following term or condition in the award:
Drug-free workplace.
You as the recipient must comply with drug-free workplace requirements in subpart B (or subpart C, if the recipient is an individual) of 782, which adopts the Government-wide implementation (2 CFR part 182) of sec. 5152-5158 of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-690, Title V, Subtitle D; 41 U.S.C. 701-707).

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
§ 782.500
Who in USAID determines that a recipient other than an individual violated the requirements of this part?
The Director of the Office of Acquisition and Assistance is the official authorized to make the determination under 2 CFR 182.500.
§ 782.505
Who in USAID determines that a recipient who is an individual violated the requirements of this part?
The Director of the Office of Acquisition and Assistance is the official authorized to make the determination under 2 CFR 182.505.

# Subpart F—Definitions
§ 782.605
Award (USAID supplement to Government-wide definition at 2 CFR 182.605).
Award
means an award of financial assistance by the U.S. Agency for International Development or other Federal agency directly to a recipient.
(a) The term award includes:
(1) A Federal grant or cooperative agreement, in the form of money or property in lieu of money.
(2) A block grant or a grant in an entitlement program, whether or not the
grant is exempted from coverage under the Government-wide rule that implements OMB Circular A-102 (for availability, see 5 CFR 1310.3) and specifies uniform administrative requirements.
(b) The term award does not include:
(1) Technical assistance that provides services instead of money.
(2) Loans.
(3) Loan guarantees.
(4) Interest subsidies.
(5) Insurance.
(6) Direct appropriations.
(7) Veterans' benefits to individuals (i.e., any benefit to veterans, their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the Armed Forces of the United States).
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, this paragraph is not applicable to AID.
PARTS 783-799 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. VIII (1-1-25 Edition)
Department of Veterans Affairs

# CHAPTER VIII—DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
Part
Page
800
[Reserved]
801
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension
309
802
Uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards
313
803-899
[Reserved]
PART 800 [RESERVED]
Pt. 801

# PART 801—NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
Sec.
801.10
What does this part do?
801.20
Does this part apply to me?
801.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?

# Subpart A—General
801.137
Who in the Department of Veterans Affairs may grant an exception to allow an excluded person to participate in a covered transaction?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
801.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
801.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
801.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
Subparts E-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions
801.930
Debarring official (Department of Veterans Affairs supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.930).
801.995
Principal (Department of Veterans Affairs supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.995).
801.1010
Suspending official (Department of Veterans Affairs supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.1010).

# Subpart J—Limited Denial of Participation (Department of Veterans Affairs Optional Subpart for OMB Guidance at 2 CFR Part 180).
801.1100
General.
801.1105
Cause for a limited denial of participation.
801.1110
Scope and period of a limited denial of participation.
801.1111
Notice.
801.1112
Conference.
801.1113
Appeal.

# Authority:
Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327; E.O. 12549, 3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189; E.O. 12689, 3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235; 38 U.S.C. 501(a) and 3703(c).

# Source:
72 FR 30240, May 31, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 801.10
What does this part do?
This part adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this part, as the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) policies and procedures for nonprocurement debarment and suspension. It thereby gives regulatory effect for the Department of Veterans Affairs to the OMB guidance as supplemented by this part. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189), Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Section 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327).
§ 801.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 (see table at 2 CFR 180.100(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Participant or principal in a “covered transaction” (see Subpart B of 2 CFR part 180 and the definition of “nonprocurement transaction” at 2 CFR 180.970, as supplemented by Subpart B of this part);
(b) Respondent in a Department of Veterans Affairs debarment or suspension action;
(c) Department of Veterans Affairs debarment or suspension official; or
(d) Department of Veterans affairs grants officer, agreements officer, or other official authorized to enter into any type of nonprocurement transaction that is a covered transaction.
§ 801.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
For any section of OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 that has no corresponding section in this part, Department of Veterans Affairs policies and procedures are those in the OMB guidance. For any such section where there is a corresponding
section in this part, the Department of Veterans Affairs policies and procedures that you must follow are the policies and procedures specified in each applicable section of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, and as supplemented by the section in this part with the same section number. The contracts that are covered transactions, for example, are specified by § 180.220 of the OMB guidance (2 CFR 180.220) as supplemented by § 801.220 in this part (2 CFR 801.220).

# Subpart A—General
§ 801.137
Who in the Department of Veterans Affairs may grant an exception to allow an excluded person to participate in a covered transaction?
Within the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Under Secretary for Health, the Under Secretary for Benefits, and the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs each has the authority to grant an exception to allow an excluded person to participate in a covered transaction, as provided in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.135.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 801.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?
VA does not extend coverage of nonprocurement suspension and debarment requirements beyond first-tier procurement contracts under a covered nonprocurement transaction, although the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.220(c) allows a Federal agency to do so (also see optional lower tier coverage in the figure in the appendix to 2 CFR part 180).

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
§ 801.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
You as a participant must include a term or condition in lower-tier transactions requiring lower-tier participants to comply with subpart C of the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this subpart.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 801.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
To communicate to a participant the requirements described in 2 CFR 180.435 of the OMB guidance, you must include a term or condition in the transaction that requires the participant's compliance with subpart C of 2 CFR part 180 (as supplemented by subpart C of this part) and requires the participant to include a similar term or condition in lower-tier covered transactions.
Subparts E-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions
§ 801.930
Debarring official (Department of Veterans Affairs supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.930).
In addition to the debarring official listed at 2 CFR 180.930, the debarring official for the Department of Veterans Affairs is:
(a) For the Veterans Health Administration, the Under Secretary for Health;
(b) For the Veterans Benefits Administration, the Under Secretary for Benefits; and
(c) For the National Cemetery Administration, the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs.
§ 801.995
Principal (Department of Veterans Affairs supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.995).
In addition to the principals identified at 2 CFR 180.995, for the Department of Veterans Affairs loan guaranty program, principals include, but are not limited to the following:
(a) Loan officers.
(b) Loan solicitors.
(c) Loan processors.
(d) Loan servicers.
(e) Loan supervisors.
(f) Mortgage brokers.
(g) Office managers.
(h) Staff appraisers and inspectors.
(i) Fee Appraisers and inspectors.
(j) Underwriters.
(k) Bonding companies.
(l) Real estate agents and brokers.
(m) Management and marketing agents.
(n) Accountants, consultants, investment bankers, architects, engineers, attorneys, and others in a business relationship with participants in connection with a covered transaction under the Department of Veterans Affairs loan guaranty program.
(o) Contractors involved in the construction, improvement or repair of properties financed with Department of Veterans Affairs guaranteed loans.
(p) Closing agents.
§ 801.1010
Suspending official (Department of Veterans Affairs supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.1010).
In addition to the suspending official listed at 2 CFR 180.1010, the suspending official for the Department of Veterans Affairs is:
(a) For the Veterans Health Administration, the Under Secretary for Health;
(b) For the Veterans Benefits Administration, the Under Secretary for Benefits; and
(c) For the National Cemetery Administration, the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs.

# Subpart J—Limited Denial of Participation (Department of Veterans Affairs Optional Subpart for OMB Guidance at 2 CFR Part 180).
§ 801.1100
General.
Field facility directors are authorized to order a limited denial of participation affecting any participant or contractor and its affiliates except lenders and manufactured home manufacturers. In each case, even if the offense or violation is of a criminal, fraudulent or other serious nature, the decision to order a limited denial of participation shall be discretionary and in the best interests of the Government.
§ 801.1105
Cause for a limited denial of participation.
(a)
Causes.
A limited denial of participation shall be based upon adequate evidence of any of the following causes:
(1) Irregularities in a participant's or contractor's performance in the VA loan guaranty program;
(2) Denial of participation in programs administered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development or the Department of Agriculture, Rural Housing Service;
(3) Failure to satisfy contractual obligations or to proceed in accordance with contract specifications;
(4) Failure to proceed in accordance with VA requirements or to comply with VA regulations;
(5) Construction deficiencies deemed by VA to be the participant's responsibility;
(6) Falsely certifying in connection with any VA program, whether or not the certification was made directly to VA;
(7) Commission of an offense or other cause listed in § 180.800;
(8) Violation of any law, regulation, or procedure relating to the application for guaranty, or to the performance of the obligations incurred pursuant to a commitment to guaranty;
(9) Making or procuring to be made any false statement for the purpose of influencing in any way an action of the Department.
(10) Imposition of a limited denial of participation by any other VA field facility.
(b)
Indictment.
A criminal indictment or information shall constitute adequate evidence for the purpose of limited denial of participation actions.
(c)
Limited denial of participation.
Imposition of a limited denial of participation by a VA field facility shall, at the discretion of any other VA field facility, constitute adequate evidence for a concurrent limited denial of participation. Where such a concurrent limited denial of participation is imposed, participation may be restricted on the same basis without the need for an additional conference or further hearing.
§ 801.1110
Scope and period of a limited denial of participation.
(a)
Scope and period.
The scope of a limited denial of participation shall be as follows:
(1) A limited denial of participation extends only to participation in the VA Loan Guaranty Program and shall be effective only within the geographic jurisdiction of the office or offices imposing it.
(2) The sanction may be imposed for a period not to exceed 12 months except for unresolved construction deficiencies. In cases involving construction deficiencies, the builder may be excluded for either a period not to exceed 12 months or for an indeterminate period which ends when the deficiency has been corrected or otherwise resolved in a manner acceptable to VA.
(b)
Effectiveness.
The sanction shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall remain effective for the prescribed period. If the cause for the limited denial of participation is resolved before the expiration of the prescribed period, the official who imposed the sanction may terminate it. The imposition of a limited denial of participation shall not affect the right of the Department to suspend or debar any person under this part.
(c)
Affiliates.
An affiliate or organizational element may be included in a limited denial of participation solely on the basis of its affiliation, and regardless of its knowledge of or participation in the acts providing cause for the sanction. The burden of proving that a particular affiliate or organizational element is capable of meeting VA requirements and is currently a responsible entity and not controlled by the primary sanctioned party (or by an entity that itself is controlled by the primary sanctioned party) is on the affiliate or organizational element.
§ 801.1111
Notice.
(a)
Generally.
A limited denial of participation shall be initiated by advising a participant or contractor, and any specifically named affiliate, by certified mail, return receipt requested:
(1) That the sanction is effective as of the date of the notice;
(2) Of the reasons for the sanction in terms sufficient to put the participant or contractor on notice of the conduct or transaction(s) upon which it is based;
(3) Of the cause(s) relied upon under § 801.1105 for imposing the sanction;
(4) Of the right to request in writing, within 30 days of receipt of the notice, a conference on the sanction, and the right to have such conference held within 10 business days of receipt of the request;
(5) Of the potential effect of the sanction and the impact on the participant's or contractor's participation in Departmental programs, specifying the program(s) involved and the geographical area affected by the action.
(b)
Notification of action.
After 30 days, if no conference has been requested, the official imposing the limited denial of participation will notify VA Central Office of the action taken and of the fact that no conference has been requested. If a conference is requested within the 30-day period, VA Central Office need not be notified unless a decision to affirm all or a portion of the remaining period of exclusion is issued. VA Central Office will notify all VA field offices of sanctions imposed and still in effect under this subpart.
§ 801.1112
Conference.
Upon receipt of a request for a conference, the official imposing the sanction shall arrange such a conference with the participant or contractor and may designate another official to conduct the conference. The participant shall be given the opportunity to be heard within 10 business days of receipt of the request. This conference precedes, and is in addition to, the formal hearing provided if an appeal is taken under § 801.1113. Although formal rules of procedure do not apply to the conference, the participant or contractor may be represented by counsel and may present all relevant information and materials to the official or designee. After consideration of the information and materials presented, the official shall, in writing, advise the participant or contractor of the decision to withdraw, modify or affirm the limited denial of participation. If the decision is made to affirm all or a portion
of the remaining period of exclusion, the participant shall be advised of the right to request a formal hearing in writing within 30 days of receipt of the notice of decision. This decision shall be issued promptly, but in no event later than 20 days after the conference and receipt of materials.
§ 801.1113
Appeal.
Where the decision is made to affirm all or a portion of the remaining period of exclusion, any participant desiring an appeal shall file a written request for a hearing with the Under Secretary for Benefits, Department of Veterans Affairs, 810 Vermont Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20420. This request shall be filed within 30 days of receipt of the decision to affirm. If a hearing is requested, it shall be held in accordance with the procedures in §§ 108.825 through 108.855. Where a limited denial of participation is followed by a suspension or debarment, the limited denial of participation shall be superseded and the appeal shall be heard solely as an appeal of the suspension or debarment.
Pt.802

# PART 802—UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 38 U.S.C. 501, 2 CFR part 200, and as noted in specific sections.

# Source:
79 FR 76024, Dec. 19, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 802.101
Applicable regulations.
The Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards set forth in 2 CFR part 200 shall apply to the Department of Veterans Affairs.
PARTS 803-899 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. IX (1-1-25 Edition)
Department of Energy

# CHAPTER IX—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
Part
Page
900
[Reserved]
901
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension
317
902
Requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance)
318
903-909
[Reserved]
910
Uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards
321
911-999
[Reserved]
PART 900 [RESERVED]
Pt. 901

# PART 901—NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
Sec.
901.10
What does this part do?
901.20
Does this part apply to me?
901.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?

# Subpart A—General
901.137
Who in the Department of Energy may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
901.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
901.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
901.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
Subparts E-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions
901.930
Debarring official (Department of Energy supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.935).
901.950
Federal agency (Department of Energy supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.910).
901.1010
Suspending official (Department of Energy supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.1010).
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Authority:
Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note); E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189); E.O. 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235); 42 U.S.C. 7101
et seq.;
50 U.S.C. 2401
et seq.

# Source:
71 FR 70459, Dec. 5, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 901.10
What does this part do?
This part adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this part, as the DOE policies and procedures for nonprocurement debarment and suspension. It thereby gives regulatory effect for DOE to the OMB guidance as supplemented by this part. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189); Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235); and section 2455 of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994, Pub. L. 103-355 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note).
§ 901.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 (see table at 2 CFR 180.100(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Participant or principal in a “covered transaction” (see subpart B of 2 CFR part 180 and the definition of “nonprocurement transaction” at 2 CFR 180.970);
(b) Respondent in a DOE suspension or debarment action;
(c) DOE debarment or suspension official; and
(d) DOE grants officer, agreements officer, or other official authorized to enter into any type of nonprocurement transaction that is a covered transaction.
§ 901.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
The DOE policies and procedures that you must follow are the policies and procedures specified in each applicable section of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 and any supplemental policies and procedures set forth in this part.

# Subpart A—General
§ 901.137
Who in the Department of Energy may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
The Director, Office of Procurement and Assistance Management, DOE, for DOE actions, and the Director, Office
of Acquisition and Supply Management, NNSA, for NNSA actions, may grant an exception permitting an excluded person to participate in a particular covered transaction. If the Director, Office of Procurement and Assistance Management, DOE, for DOE actions, and Director, Office of Acquisition and Supply Management, NNSA, for NNSA actions, grants an exception, the exception must be in writing and state the reason(s) for deviating from the government-wide policy in Executive Order 12549.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 901.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?
Although the OMB guidance at 2 CFR180.220(c) allows a Federal agency to do so (also see optional lower tier coverage in the figure in the appendix to 2 CFR part 180), DOE does not extend coverage of nonprocurement suspension and debarment requirements beyond first-tier procurement contracts under a covered nonprocurement transaction.

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
§ 901.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
You, as a participant, must include a term or condition in lower-tier transactions requiring lower-tier participants to comply with subpart C of the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this subpart.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 901.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
To communicate to a participant the requirements described in 2 CFR 180.435 of the OMB guidance, you must include a term or condition in the transaction that requires the participant's compliance with subpart C of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by subpart C of this part, and requires the participant to include a similar term or condition in lower-tier covered transactions.
Subparts E-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions
§ 901.930
Debarring official (Department of Energy supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.930).
The Debarring Official for the Department of Energy, exclusive of NNSA, is the Director, Office of Procurement and Assistance Management, DOE. The Debarring Official for NNSA is the Director, Office of Acquisition and Supply Management, NNSA.
§ 901.950
Federal agency (Department of Energy supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.950).
DOE
means the U.S. Department of Energy, including the NNSA.
NNSA
means the National Nuclear Security Administration.
§ 901.1010
Suspending official (Department of Energy supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.1010).
The suspending official for the Department of Energy, exclusive of NNSA, is the Director, Office of Procurement and Assistance Management, DOE. The suspending official for NNSA is the Director, Office of Acquisition and Supply Management, NNSA.
Subpart J [Reserved]
Pt. 902

# PART 902—REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE)
Sec.
902.10
What does this part do?
902.20
Does this part apply to me?
902.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
902.225
Whom in the DOE does a recipient other than an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
902.300
Whom in the DOE does a recipient who is an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Agency Awarding Officials
902.400
What method do I use as an agency awarding official to obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with the OMB guidance?

# Subpart E—Violations of this Part and Consequences
902.500
Who in the DOE determines that a recipient other than an individual violated the requirements of this part?
902.505
Who in the DOE determines that a recipient who is an individual violated the requirements of this part?

# Subpart F—Definitions
902.605
Award (DOE supplement to Governmentwide definition at 2 CFR 182.605).
902.645
Federal agency or agency.

# Authority:
41 U.S.C. 701; 42 U.S.C. 7101
et seq.;
50 U.S.C. 2401
et seq.

# Source:
75 FR 39444, July 9, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 902.10
What does this part do?
This part requires that the award and administration of DOE grants and cooperative agreements comply with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance implementing the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701-707, as amended, hereafter referred to as “the Act”) that applies to grants. It thereby—
(a) Gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance (Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182) for the DOE's grants and cooperative agreements; and
(b) Establishes DOE policies and procedures for compliance with the Act that are the same as those of other Federal agencies, in conformance with the requirement in 41 U.S.C. 705 for Governmentwide implementing regulations.
§ 902.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182 (see table at 2 CFR 182.115(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Recipient of a DOE grant or cooperative agreement; or
(b) DOE awarding official.
§ 902.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
(a)
General.
You must follow the policies and procedures specified in applicable sections of the OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(b)
Specific sections of OMB guidance that this part supplements.
In implementing the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 182, this part supplements four sections of the guidance, as shown in the following table. For each of those sections, you must follow the policies and procedures in the OMB guidance, as supplemented by this part.
Section of OMB guidance
Section in this part where supplemented
What the supplementation clarifies
(1) 2 CFR 182.225(a)
§ 902.225
Whom in the DOE a recipient other than an individual must notify if an employee is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute in the workplace.
(2) 2 CFR 182.300(b)
§ 902.300
Whom in the DOE a recipient who is an individual must notify if he or she is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
(3) 2 CFR 182.500
§ 902.500
Who in the DOE is authorized to determine that a recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(4) 2 CFR 182.505
§ 902.505
Who in the DOE is authorized to determine that a recipient who is an individual is in violation of the requirements of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(5) 2 CFR 182.605
§ 902.605
Definition of “Award”.
(6) 2 CFR 182.645
§ 902.645
Definition of “Federal agency or agency”.
(c)
Sections of the OMB guidance that this part does not supplement.
For any section of OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182 that is not listed in paragraph (b) of this section, DOE policies and procedures are the same as those in the OMB guidance.
Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
§ 902.225
Whom in the DOE does a recipient other than an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?
A recipient other than an individual that is required under 2 CFR 182.225(a) to notify Federal agencies about an employee's conviction for a criminal drug offense must notify each DOE office from which it currently has an award.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
§ 902.300
Whom in the DOE does a recipient who is an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?
A recipient who is an individual and is required under 2 CFR 182.300(b) to notify Federal agencies about a conviction for a criminal drug offense must notify each DOE office from which it currently has an award.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Agency Awarding Officials
§ 902.400
What method do I use as an agency awarding official to obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with the OMB guidance?
To obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with applicable requirements in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 182, you must include the following term or condition in the award:
Drug-free workplace. You as the recipient must comply with drug-free workplace requirements in Subpart B (or Subpart C, if the recipient is an individual) of Part 902, which adopts the Governmentwide implementation (2 CFR part 182) of sec. 5152-5158 of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-690, Title V, Subtitle D; 41 U.S.C. 701-707).

# Subpart E—Violations of this Part and Consequences
§ 902.500
Who in the DOE determines that a recipient other than an individual violated the requirements of this part?
The Secretary of the Department of Energy and the Secretary's designee or designees are authorized to make the determinations under 2 CFR 182.500 for DOE, including NNSA.
§ 902.505
Who in the DOE determines that a recipient who is an individual violated the requirements of this part?
The Secretary of the Department of Energy and the Secretary's designee or designees are authorized to make the determinations under 2 CFR 182.500 for DOE, including NNSA.

# Subpart F—Definitions
§ 902.605
Award (DOE supplement to Governmentwide definition at 2 CFR 182.605).
The term
award
also includes Technology Investment Agreements (TIA). A TIA is a special type of assistance instrument used to increase the involvement of commercial firms in the Department's RD
D programs. A TIA may be either a type of cooperative agreement or a type of assistance transaction other than a cooperative agreement, depending on the intellectual property provisions. A TIA may be either expenditure based or fixed support.
§ 902.645
Federal agency or agency.
Department of Energy
means the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), including the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA).
PARTS 903-909 [RESERVED]
Pt. 910

# PART 910—UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—General Provisions
Sec.
910.120
Adoption of 2 CFR part 200.
910.122
Applicability.
910.124
Eligibility.
910.126
Competition.
910.127
Legal authority and effect.
910.128
Disputes and appeals.
910.130
Cost sharing (EPACT).
910.132
Research misconduct.
910.133
Deviation authority.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Post Award Federal Requirements for For-Profit Entities
910.350
Applicability of 2 CFR part 200.
910.352
Cost principles.
910.354
Payments.
910.356
Audits.
910.358
Profit or fee for SBIR/STTR.
910.360
Real property and equipment.
910.362
Intellectual property.
910.364
Reporting on utilization of subject inventions.
910.366
Export Control and U.S. Manufacturing and Competitiveness.
910.368
Change of control.
910.370
Novation of financial assistance agreements.
910.372
Special award conditions.
Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 910—Patents and Data Provisions for For-Profit Organizations

# Subpart E—Cost Principles
910.401
Application to M
O's.

# Subpart F—Audit Requirements for For-Profit Entities

# General
910.500
Purpose.

# Audits
910.501
Audit requirements.
910.502
Basis for determining DOE awards expended.
910.503
Relation to other audit requirements.
910.504
Frequency of audits.
910.505
Sanctions.
910.506
Audit costs.
910.507
Compliance audits.

# Auditees
910.508
Auditee responsibilities.
910.509
Auditor selection.
910.510
Financial statements.
910.511
Audit findings follow-up.
910.512
Report submission.

# Federal Agencies
910.513
Responsibilities.

# Auditors
910.514
Scope of audit.
910.515
Audit reporting.
910.516
Audit findings.
910.517
Audit documentation.
910.518
[Reserved]
910.519
Criteria for Federal program risk.
910.520
Criteria for a low-risk auditee.

# Management Decisions
910.521
Management decision.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7101,
et seq.;
31 U.S.C. 6301-6308; 50 U.S.C. 2401
et seq.;
2 CFR part 200.

# Source:
79 FR 76024, Dec. 19, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—General Provisions
§ 910.120
Adoption of 2 CFR part 200.
(a) Under the authority listed above, the Department of Energy adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Guidance in 2 CFR part 200, with the following additions. Thus, this part gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance and supplements the guidance as needed for the Department.
(b) The additions include: Expanding the definition of non-Federal entity for DOE to include For-profit entities; adding back additional coverage from 10 CFR part 600 required by DOE statute; adding back coverage specific for For-Profit entities which existed in 10 CFR part 600 which still applies.
§ 910.122
Applicability.
(a) For DOE, unless otherwise noted in this part, the definition of Non-Federal entity found in 2 CFR 200.1 is expanded to include for-profit organizations in addition to states, local governments, Indian tribes, institutions of higher education (IHE), and nonprofit organizations.
(b) A for-profit organization is defined as one that distributes any profit
not reinvested into the business as profit or dividends to its employees or shareholders.
[79 FR 76024, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 87 FR 15320, Mar. 18, 2022]
§ 910.124
Eligibility.
(a)
Purpose and scope.
This section implements section 2306 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, 42 U.S.C. 13525, and sets forth a general statement of policy, including procedures and interpretations, for the guidance of implementing DOE officials in making mandatory pre-award determinations of eligibility for financial assistance under Titles XX through XXIII of that Act.
(b)
Definitions.
The definitions in Subpart A of 2 CFR part 200, including the definition of the term “Federal financial assistance,” are applicable to this section. In addition, as used in this section:
Act
means the Energy Policy Act of 1992.
Company
means any business entity other than an organization of the type described in section 501(c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)).
Covered program
means a program under Titles XX through XXIII of the Act. (A list of covered programs, updated periodically as appropriate, is maintained and published by the Department of Energy.)
Parent company
means a company that:
(1) Exercises ultimate ownership of the applicant company either directly, by ownership of a majority of that company's voting securities, or indirectly, by control over a majority of that company's voting securities through one or more intermediate subsidiary companies or otherwise, and
(2) Is not itself subject to the ultimate ownership control of another company.
United States
means the several States, the District of Columbia, and all commonwealths, territories, and possessions of the United States.
United States-owned company
means:
(1) A company that has majority ownership by individuals who are citizens of the United States, or
(2) A company organized under the laws of a State that either has no parent company or has a parent company organized under the laws of a State.
Voting security
has the meaning given the term in the Public Utility Holding Company Act (15 U.S.C. 15b(17)).
(c)
What must DOE determine.
A company shall be eligible to receive an award of financial assistance under a covered program only if DOE finds that—
(1) Consistent with § 910.124(d), the company's participation in a covered program would be in the economic interest of the United States; and
(2) The company is either—
(i) A United States-owned company; or
(ii) Incorporated or organized under the laws of any State and has a parent company which is incorporated or organized under the laws of a country which—
(A) Affords to the United States-owned companies opportunities, comparable to those afforded to any other company, to participate in any joint venture similar to those authorized under the Act;
(B) Affords to United States-owned companies local investment opportunities comparable to those afforded to any other company; and
(C) Affords adequate and effective protection for the intellectual property rights of United States-owned companies.
(d)
Determining the economic interest of the United States.
In determining whether participation of an applicant company in a covered program would be in the economic interest of the United States under § 910.124(c)(1), DOE may consider any evidence showing that a financial assistance award would be in the economic interest of the United States including, but not limited to—
(1) Investments by the applicant company and its affiliates in the United States in research, development, and manufacturing (including, for example, the manufacture of major components or subassemblies in the United States);
(2) Significant contributions to employment in the United States by the applicant company and its affiliates; and
(3) An agreement by the applicant company, with respect to any technology arising from the financial assistance being sought—
(i) To promote the manufacture within the United States of products resulting from that technology (taking into account the goals of promoting the competitiveness of United States industry); and
(ii) To procure parts and materials from competitive suppliers.
(e) Information an applicant must submit.
(1) Any applicant for Federal financial assistance under a covered program shall submit with the application for Federal financial assistance, or at such later time as may be specified by DOE, evidence for DOE to consider in making findings required under § 910.124 (c)(1) and findings concerning ownership status under § 910.124(c)(2).
(2) If an applicant for Federal financial assistance is submitting evidence relating to future undertakings, such as an agreement under § 910.124(d)(3) to promote manufacture in the United States of products resulting from a technology developed with financial assistance or to procure parts and materials from competitive suppliers, the applicant shall submit a representation affirming acceptance of these undertakings. The applicant should also briefly describe its plans, if any, for any manufacturing of products arising from the program-supported research and development, including the location where such manufacturing is expected to occur.
(3) If an applicant for Federal financial assistance is claiming to be a United States-owned company, the applicant must submit a representation affirming that it falls within the definition of that term provided in § 910.124(b).
(4) DOE may require submission of additional information deemed necessary to make any portion of the determination required by § 910.124(b) 2.
(f) Other information DOE may consider.
In making the determination under § 910.124(c)(2)(ii), DOE may—
(1) Consider information on the relevant international and domestic law obligations of the country of incorporation of the parent company of an applicant;
(2) Consider information relating to the policies and practices of the country of incorporation of the parent company of an applicant with respect to:
(i) The eligibility criteria for, and the experience of United States-owned company participation in, energy-related research and development programs;
(ii) Local investment opportunities afforded to United States-owned companies; and
(iii) Protection of intellectual property rights of United States-owned companies;
(3) Seek and consider advice from other federal agencies, as appropriate; and
(4) Consider any publicly available information in addition to the information provided by the applicant.
§ 910.126
Competition.
(a)
General.
DOE shall solicit applications for Federal financial assistance in a manner which provides for the maximum amount of competition feasible.
(b)
Restricted eligibility.
If DOE restricts eligibility, an explanation of why the restriction of eligibility is considered necessary shall be included in the notice of funding opportunity or, program rule. Such restriction of eligibility shall be:
(1) Supported by a written determination initiated by the program office;
(2) Concurred in by legal counsel and the Contracting Officer; and
(3) Approved, prior to award, by an approver at least one level above the Contracting Officer.
(c)
Noncompetitive Federal financial assistance.
DOE may award a grant or cooperative agreement on a noncompetitive basis only if the application satisfies one or more of the follow selection criteria:
(1) The activity to be funded is necessary to the satisfactory completion of, or is a continuation or renewal of, an activity presently being funded by DOE or another Federal agency, and for which competition for support would have a significant adverse effect
on continuity or completion of the activity.
(2) The activity is being or would be conducted by the applicant using its own resources or those donated or provided by third parties; however, DOE support of that activity would enhance the public benefits to be derived and DOE knows of no other entity which is conducting or is planning to conduct such an activity.
(3) The applicant is a unit of government and the activity to be supported is related to performance of a governmental function within the subject jurisdiction, thereby precluding DOE provision of support to another entity.
(4) The applicant has exclusive domestic capability to perform the activity successfully, based upon unique equipment, proprietary data, technical expertise, or other such unique qualifications.
(5) The award implements an agreement between the United States Government and a foreign government to fund a foreign applicant.
(6) Time constraints associated with a public health, safety, welfare or national security requirement preclude competition.
(7) The proposed project was submitted as an unsolicited proposal and represents a unique or innovative idea, method, or approach that would not be eligible for financial assistance under a recent, current, or planned notice of funding opportunity, and if, as determined by DOE, a competitive notice of funding opportunity would not be appropriate.
(8) The responsible program Assistant Secretary, Deputy Administrator, or other official of equivalent authority has determined that making the award non-competitively is in the public interest. This authority cannot not be delegated.
(d)
Approval requirements.
Determinations of noncompetitive awards shall be:
(1) Documented in writing;
(2) Concurred in by the responsible program technical official and local legal counsel; and
(3) Approved, prior to award, by the Contracting Officer and an approver at least one level above the CO.
(e)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions are applicable:
Continuation Award
—A financial assistance award authorizing a second or subsequent budget period within an existing project period.
Renewal Award
—A financial assistance award authorizing the first budget period of an extended project period.
[79 FR 76024, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 57511, Sept. 24, 2015]
§ 910.127
Legal authority and effect.
(a) A DOE financial assistance award is valid only if it is in writing and is signed, either in writing or electronically, by a DOE Contracting Officer.
(b) Recipients are free to accept or reject the award. A request to draw down DOE funds constitutes the Recipient's acceptance of the terms and conditions of this Award.
[80 FR 57511, Sept. 24, 2015]
§ 910.128
Disputes and appeals.
(a)
Informal dispute resolution.
Whenever practicable, DOE shall attempt to resolve informally any dispute over the award or administration of Federal financial assistance. Informal resolution, including resolution through an alternative dispute resolution mechanism, shall be preferred over formal procedures, to the extent practicable.
(b)
Alternative dispute resolution (ADR).
Before issuing a final determination in any dispute in which informal resolution has not been achieved, the Contracting Officer shall suggest that the other party consider the use of voluntary consensual methods of dispute resolution, such as mediation. The DOE dispute resolution specialist is available to provide assistance for such disputes, as are trained mediators of other federal agencies. ADR may be used at any stage of a dispute.
(c)
Final determination.
Whenever a dispute is not resolved informally or through an alternative dispute resolution process, DOE shall mail (by certified mail) a brief written determination signed by a Contracting Officer, setting forth DOE's final disposition of such dispute. Such determination shall contain the following information:
(1) A summary of the dispute, including a statement of the issues and of the positions taken by DOE and the party or parties to the dispute; and
(2) The factual, legal and, if appropriate, policy reasons for DOE's disposition of the dispute.
(d)
Right of appeal.
Except as provided in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the final determination under paragraph (c) of this section may be appealed to the cognizant Senior Procurement Executive (SPE) for either DOE or the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA). The appeal must be received by DOE within 90 days of the receipt of the final determination. The mailing address for the DOE SPE is Office of Acquisition and Project Management, 1000 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20585. The mailing address for the NNSA SPE is Office of Acquisition Management, National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA), 1000 Independence Ave. SW., Washington, DC 20585.
(e)
Effect of appeal.
The filing of an appeal with the SPE shall not stay any determination or action taken by DOE which is the subject of the appeal. Consistent with its obligation to protect the interests of the Federal Government, DOE may take such authorized actions as may be necessary to preserve the status quo pending decision by the SPE, or to preserve its ability to provide relief in the event the SPE decides in favor of the appellant.
(f)
Review on appeal.
(1) The SPE shall have no jurisdiction to review:
(i) Any preaward dispute (except as provided in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section), including use of any special restrictive condition pursuant to 2 CFR 200.208 Specific Conditions;
(ii) DOE denial of a request for an Exception under 2 CFR 200.102;
(iii) DOE denial of a request for a budget revision or other change in the approved project under 2 CFR 200.308 or 200.403 or under another term or condition of the award;
(iv) Any DOE action authorized under 2 CFR 200.339, Remedies for Noncompliance, or such actions authorized by program rule;
(v) Any DOE decision about an action requiring prior DOE approval under 2 CFR 200.325 or under another term or condition of the award;
(2) In addition to any right of appeal established by program rule, or by the terms and conditions (not inconsistent with paragraph (f)(1) of this section) of an award, the SPE shall have jurisdiction to review:
(i) A DOE determination that the recipient has failed to comply with the applicable requirements of this part, the program statute or rules, or other terms and conditions of the award;
(ii) A DOE decision not to make a continuation award based on any of the determinations described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section;
(iii) Termination of an award, in whole or in part, by DOE under 2 CFR 200.340(a)(1) and (2);
(iv) A DOE determination that an award is void or invalid;
(v) The application by DOE of an indirect cost rate; and
(vi) DOE disallowance of costs.
(3) In reviewing disputes authorized under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the SPE shall be bound by the applicable law, statutes, and rules, including the requirements of this part, and by the terms and conditions of the award.
(4) The decision of the SPE shall be the final decision of DOE.
[79 FR 76024, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 87 FR 15320, Mar. 18, 2022]
§ 910.130
Cost sharing (EPACT).
In addition to the requirements of 2 CFR 200.306 the following requirements apply to research, development, demonstration and commercial application activities:
(a) Cost sharing is required for most financial assistance awards for research, development, demonstration and commercial applications activities initiated after the enactment of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 on August 8, 2005. This requirement does not apply to:
(1) An award under the small business innovation research program (SBIR) or the small business technology transfer program (STTR); or
(2) A program with cost sharing requirements defined by other than Section 988 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 including other sections of the 2005 Act and the Energy Policy Act of 1992.
(b) A cost share of at least 20 percent of the cost of the activity is required for research and development except where:
(1) A research or development activity of a basic or fundamental nature has been excluded by an appropriate officer of DOE, generally an Under Secretary; or
(2) The Secretary has determined it is necessary and appropriate to reduce or eliminate the cost sharing requirement for a research and development activity of an applied nature.
(c) A cost share of at least 50 percent of the cost of a demonstration or commercial application activity is required unless the Secretary has determined it is necessary and appropriate to reduce the cost sharing requirements, taking into consideration any technological risk relating to the activity.
(d) Cost share shall be provided by non-Federal funds unless otherwise authorized by statute. In calculating the amount of the non-Federal contribution:
(1) Base the non-Federal contribution on total project costs, including the cost of work where funds are provided directly to a partner, consortium member or subrecipient, such as a Federally Funded Research and Development Center;
(2) Include the following costs as allowable in accordance with the applicable cost principles:
(i) Cash;
(ii) Personnel costs;
(iii) The value of a service, other resource, or third party in-kind contribution determined in accordance with Subpart E—Cost Principles—of 2 CFR part 200. For recipients that are for-profit organizations as defined by 2 CFR 910.122, the Cost Principles which apply are contained in 48 CFR 31.2. See § 910.352 for further information;
(iv) Indirect costs or facilities and administrative costs; and/or
(v) Any funds received under the power program of the Tennessee Valley Authority (except to the extent that such funds are made available under an annual appropriation Act);
(3) Exclude the following costs:
(i) Revenues or royalties from the prospective operation of an activity beyond the time considered in the award;
(ii) Proceeds from the prospective sale of an asset of an activity; or
(iii) Other appropriated Federal funds.
(iv) Repayment of the Federal share of a cost-shared activity under Section 988 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 shall not be a condition of the award.
(e) For purposes of this section, the following definitions are applicable:
Demonstration
means a project designed to determine the technical feasibility and economic potential of a technology on either a pilot or prototype scale.
Development
is defined in 2 CFR 200.1.
Research
is also defined in 2 CFR 200.1.
[79 FR 76024, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 12049, Apr. 1, 2019; 87 FR 15320, Mar. 18, 2022]
§ 910.132
Research misconduct.
(a) A recipient is responsible for maintaining the integrity of research of any kind under an award from DOE including the prevention, detection, and remediation of research misconduct, and the conduct of inquiries, investigations, and adjudication of allegations of research misconduct in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(b) For purposes of this section, the following definitions are applicable:
Adjudication
means a formal review of a record of investigation of alleged research misconduct to determine whether and what corrective actions and sanctions should be taken.
Fabrication
means making up data or results and recording or reporting them.
Falsification
means manipulating research materials, equipment, or processes, or changing or omitting data or results such that the research is not accurately represented in the research record.
Finding of Research Misconduct
means a determination, based on a preponderance of the evidence, that research misconduct has occurred. Such a finding requires a conclusion that there has been a significant departure from accepted practices of the relevant research community and that it be knowingly, intentionally, or recklessly committed.
Inquiry
means information gathering and initial fact-finding to determine whether an allegation or apparent instance of misconduct warrants an investigation.
Investigation
means the formal examination and evaluation of the relevant facts.
Plagiarism
means the appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results, or words without giving appropriate credit.
Research misconduct
means fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism in proposing, performing, or reviewing research, or in reporting research results, but does not include honest error or differences of opinion.
Research record
means the record of all data or results that embody the facts resulting from scientists' inquiries, including, but not limited to, research proposals, laboratory records, both physical and electronic, progress reports, abstracts, theses, oral presentations, internal reports, and journal articles.
(c) Unless otherwise instructed by the Contracting Officer, the recipient must conduct an initial inquiry into any allegation of research misconduct. If the recipient determines that there is sufficient evidence to proceed to an investigation, it must notify the Contracting Officer and, unless otherwise instructed, the recipient must:
(1) Conduct an investigation to develop a complete factual record and an examination of such record leading to either a finding of research misconduct and an identification of appropriate remedies or a determination that no further action is warranted;
(2) Inform the Contracting Officer if an initial inquiry supports an investigation and, if requested by the Contracting Officer thereafter, keep the Contracting Officer informed of the results of the investigation and any subsequent adjudication. When an investigation is complete, the recipient will forward to the Contracting Officer a copy of the evidentiary record, the investigative report, any recommendations made to the recipient's adjudicating official, and the adjudicating official's decision and notification of any corrective action taken or planned, and the subject's written response to the recommendations (if any).
(3) If the investigation leads to a finding of research misconduct, conduct an adjudication by a responsible official who was not involved in the inquiry or investigation and is separated organizationally from the element which conducted the investigation. The adjudication must include a review of the investigative record and, as warranted, a determination of appropriate corrective actions and sanctions.
(d) DOE may elect to act in lieu of the recipient in conducting an inquiry or investigation into an allegation of research misconduct if the Contracting Officer finds that:
(1) The research organization is not prepared to handle the allegation in a manner consistent with this section;
(2) The allegation involves an entity of sufficiently small size that it cannot reasonably conduct the inquiry;
(3) DOE involvement is necessary to ensure the public health, safety, and security, or to prevent harm to the public interest; or,
(4) The allegation involves possible criminal misconduct.
(e) DOE reserves the right to pursue such remedies and other actions as it deems appropriate, consistent with the terms and conditions of the award instrument and applicable laws and regulations. However, the recipient's good faith administration of this section and the effectiveness of its remedial actions and sanctions shall be positive considerations and shall be taken into account as mitigating factors in assessing the need for such actions. If DOE pursues any such action, it will inform the subject of the action of the outcome and any applicable appeal procedures.
(f) In conducting the activities in paragraph (c) of this section, the recipient and DOE, if it elects to conduct the inquiry or investigation, shall adhere to the following guidelines:
(1)
Safeguards for information and subjects of allegations.
The recipient shall provide safeguards to ensure that individuals may bring allegations of research misconduct made in good faith to the attention of the recipient without suffering retribution. Safeguards include: Protection against retaliation;
fair and objective procedures for examining and resolving allegations; and diligence in protecting positions and reputations. The recipient shall also provide the subjects of allegations confidence that their rights are protected and that the mere filing of an allegation of research misconduct will not result in an adverse action. Safeguards include timely written notice regarding substantive allegations against them, a description of the allegation and reasonable access to any evidence submitted to support the allegation or developed in response to an allegation and notice of any findings of research misconduct.
(2)
Objectivity and expertise.
The recipient shall select individual(s) to inquire, investigate, and adjudicate allegations of research misconduct who have appropriate expertise and have no unresolved conflict of interest. The individual(s) who conducts an adjudication must not be the same individual(s) who conducted the inquiry or investigation, and must be separate organizationally from the element that conducted the inquiry or investigation.
(3)
Timeliness.
The recipient shall coordinate, inquire, investigate and adjudicate allegations of research misconduct promptly, but thoroughly. Generally, an investigation should be completed within 120 days of initiation, and adjudication should be complete within 60 days of receipt of the record of investigation.
(4)
Confidentiality.
To the extent possible, consistent with fair and thorough processing of allegations of research misconduct and applicable law and regulation, knowledge about the identity of the subjects of allegations and informants should be limited to those with a need to know.
(5)
Remediation and sanction.
If the recipient finds that research misconduct has occurred, it shall assess the seriousness of the misconduct and its impact on the research completed or in process. The recipient must take all necessary corrective actions. Such action may include but are not limited to, correcting the research record and as appropriate imposing restrictions, controls, or other parameters on research in process or to be conducted in the future. The recipient must coordinate remedial actions with the Contracting Officer. The recipient must also consider whether personnel sanctions are appropriate. Any such sanction must be consistent with any applicable personnel laws, policies, and procedures, and must take into account the seriousness of the misconduct and its impact, whether it was done knowingly or intentionally, and whether it was an isolated event or pattern of conduct.
(g) By executing this agreement, the recipient provides its assurance that it has established an administrative process for performing an inquiry, mediating if possible, investigating, and reporting allegations of research misconduct; and that it will comply with its own administrative process and the requirements and definitions of 10 CFR part 733 for performing an inquiry, possible mediation, investigation and reporting of allegations of research misconduct.
(h) The recipient must insert or have inserted the substance of this section, including paragraph (g), in subawards at all tiers that involve research.
§ 910.133
Deviation authority.
(a)
General.
(1) A deviation is the use of any policy, procedure, form, standard, term, or condition which varies from a requirement of this part, or the waiver of any such requirement, unless such use or waiver is authorized or precluded by Federal statute. The use of optional or discretionary provisions of this part, including special restrictive conditions used in accordance with § 910.372, exceptions under 2 CFR 200.102, and the waiver of the cost sharing requirements in § 910.130 are not deviations. Awards to foreign entities are not subject to this section.
(2) A single-case deviation is a deviation which applies to one financial assistance transaction and one applicant, recipient, or subrecipient only.
(3) A class deviation is a deviation which applies to more than one financial assistance transaction, applicant, recipient, or subrecipient.
(b)
Conditions for approval.
The DOE/NNSA officials specified in paragraph (c) of this section may authorize a deviation only upon a written determination that the deviation is—
(1) Necessary to achieve program objectives;
(2) Necessary to conserve public funds;
(3) Otherwise essential to the public interest; or
(4) Necessary to achieve equity.
(c)
Approval procedures.
(1) A deviation request must be in writing and must be submitted to the responsible DOE/NNSA Contracting Officer. An applicant for a subaward or a subrecipient shall submit any such request through the recipient.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section—
(i) A single-case deviation may be authorized by the responsible HCA.
(ii) A class deviation may be authorized by the Director, Office of Acquisition Management, for DOE actions, and the Deputy Associate Administrator for the Office of Acquisition and Project Management for NNSA, for NNSA actions, or designee.
(3) Whenever the approval of OMB, other Federal agency, or other DOE/NNSA office is required to authorize a deviation, the proposed deviation must be submitted to the Director, Office of Acquisition Management, for DOE actions, and the Deputy Associate Administrator for the Office of Acquisition and Project Management for NNSA, for NNSA actions, or designee for concurrence prior to submission to the authorizing official.
(d)
Notice.
Whenever a request for a class deviation is approved, DOE/NNSA will identify this class deviation (as applicable) in the Notice of Funding Opportunity(s) that may be affected.
(e)
Subawards.
A recipient may use a deviation in a subaward only with the prior written approval of a DOE/NNSA Contracting Officer.
[85 FR 32979, June 1, 2020]
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Post Award Federal Requirements for For-Profit Entities
§ 910.350
Applicability of 2 CFR part 200.
(a) As stated in 2 CFR 910.22, unless otherwise noted in this part, the definition of Non-Federal entity found in 2 CFR 200.1 is expanded for DOE to include for-profit organizations in addition to states, local governments, Indian tribes, institutions of higher education (IHE), and nonprofit organizations.
(b) A for-profit organization is defined as one that distributes any profit not reinvested into the business as profit or dividends to its employees or shareholders.
(c) Subpart D of 2 CFR part 910 contains specific changes to 2 CFR part 200 that apply only to For-Profit Recipients and, unless otherwise specified, subrecipients. In some cases, the coverage in Subpart D will replace the language in a specific section of 2 CFR part 200.
[79 FR 76024, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 87 FR 15320, Mar. 18, 2022]
§ 910.352
Cost Principles.
For For-Profit Entities, the Cost Principles contained in 48 CFR 31.2 (Contracts with Commercial Organizations) must be followed in lieu of the Cost principles contained in 2 CFR 200.400 through 200.476, except that patent prosecution costs are not allowable unless specifically authorized in the award document. This applies to For-Profit entities whether they are recipients or subrecipients.
[79 FR 76024, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 87 FR 15320, Mar. 18, 2022]
§ 910.354
Payment.
(a) For-Profit Recipients are an exception to 2 CFR 200.305(b)(1) which requires that non-Federal entities be paid in advance as long as certain conditions are met.
(b) For For-Profit Recipients who are paid directly by DOE, reimbursement is the preferred method of payment. Under the reimbursement method of payment, the Federal awarding agency must reimburse the non-Federal entity for its actual cash disbursements. When the reimbursement method is used, the Federal awarding agency must make payment within 30 calendar days after receipt of the billing, unless the Federal awarding agency reasonably believes the request to be improper.
§ 910.356
Audits.
See Subpart F of this part (Sections 910.500 through 910.521) for specific DOE regulations which apply to audits of DOE's For-Profit Recipients. For-Profit entities are an exception to the Single Audit requirements contained in Subpart F of 2 CFR 200 and therefore the regulations contained in 2 CFR 910 Subpart F apply instead.
§ 910.358
Profit or fee for SBIR/STTR.
(a) As authorized by 2 CFR 200.400 (g), DOE may expressly allow non-federal entities to earn a profit or fee resulting from Federal financial assistance.
(b) DOE allows a profit or fee to be paid under two of its financial assistance programs only: Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer Research (STTR).
(c) Awards under these programs will contain a specific provision which allows a profit or fee to be paid.
(d) Profit or Fee is unallowable for all other DOE programs which award grants and cooperative agreements.
§ 910.360
Real property and equipment.
(a)
Prior approvals for acquisition with Federal funds.
Recipients may purchase real property or equipment with an acquisition cost per unit of $5,000 or more in whole or in part with Federal funds only with the prior written approval of the contracting officer or in accordance with express award terms.
(b)
Title.
Unless a statute specifically authorizes and the award specifies that title to property vests unconditionally in the recipient, title to real property or equipment vests in the recipient, subject to all terms and conditions of the award and that the recipient shall:
(1) Use the real property or equipment for the authorized purposes of the project until funding for the project ceases, or until the real property or equipment is no longer needed for the purposes of the project, as may be determined by the contracting officer;
(2) Not encumber or permit any encumbrance on the real property or equipment without the prior written approval of the contracting officer;
(3) Use and dispose of the real property or equipment in accordance with paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section; and
(4) Properly record, and consent to the Department's ability to properly record if the recipient fails to do so, UCC financing statement(s) for all equipment purchased with Federal funds (Financial assistance awards made under the Small Business Innovation Research/Small Business Technology Transfer (SBIR/STTR) program are exempt from this requirement unless otherwise specified within the grant agreement); such a filing is required when the Federal share of the financial assistance agreement is more than $1,000,000, and the Contracting Officer may require it in his or her discretion when the Federal share is less than $1,000,000. These financing statement(s) must be approved in writing by the contracting officer prior to the recording, and they shall provide notice that the recipient's title to all equipment (not real property) purchased with Federal funds under the financial assistance agreement is conditional pursuant to the terms of this section, and that the Government retains an undivided reversionary interest in the equipment. The UCC financing statement(s) must be filed before the contracting officer may reimburse the recipient for the Federal share of the equipment unless otherwise provided for in the relevant financial assistance agreement. The recipient shall further make any amendments to the financing statements or additional recordings, including appropriate continuation statements, as necessary or as the contracting officer may direct.
(c)
Remedies.
If the recipient fails at any time to comply with any of the conditions or requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, then the contracting officer may:
(1) Notify the recipient of noncompliance in accordance with 2 CFR 200.339, which may lead to suspension or termination of the award;
(2) Impose special award conditions pursuant to 2 CFR 200.206 and 200.208 as amended by 910.372;
(3) Issue instructions to the recipient for disposition of the property in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section;
(4) In the case of a failure to properly record UCC financing statement(s) in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section, effect such a recording; and
(5) Apply other remedies that may be legally available.
(d)
Title to and Federal interest in real property or equipment offered as cost-share.
As provided in 2 CFR 200.306(h), depending upon the purpose of the Federal award, a recipient may offer the fair market value of real property or equipment that is purchased with recipient's funds or that is donated by a third party to meet a portion of any required cost sharing or matching. If a resulting award includes such property as a portion of the recipient's cost share, the recipient holds conditional title to the property and the Government has an undivided reversionary interest in the share of the property value equal to the Federal participation in the project. The property is treated as if it had been acquired in part with Federal funds, and is subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section and to the provisions of 2 CFR 200.311 and 200.313.
(e)
Insurance.
Recipients must, at a minimum, provide the equivalent insurance coverage for real property and equipment acquired with Federal funds as provided to property owned by the recipient.
(f)
Additional uses during and after the project period.
Unless a statute and the award terms expressly provide for the vesting of unconditional title to real property or equipment with the recipient, the real property or equipment acquired wholly or in part with Federal funds is subject to the following:
(1) During the Project Period, the recipient must make real property and equipment available for use on other projects or programs, if such other use does not interfere with the work on the project or program for which the real property or equipment was originally acquired. Use of the real property or equipment on other projects is subject to the following order of priority:
(i) Activities sponsored by DOE grants, cooperative agreements, or other assistance awards;
(ii) Activities sponsored by other Federal agencies' grants, cooperative agreements, or other assistance awards;
(iii) Activities under Federal procurement contracts or activities not sponsored by any Federal agency. If so used, use charges must be assessed to those activities. For real property or equipment, the use charges must be at rates equivalent to those for which comparable real property or equipment may be leased.
(2) After Federal funding for the project ceases, or if, as may be determined by the contracting officer, the real property or equipment is no longer needed for the purposes of the project, or if the recipient suspends work on the project, the recipient may use the real property or equipment for other projects, if:
(i) There are Federally sponsored projects for which the real property or equipment may be used;
(ii) The recipient obtains written approval from the contracting officer to do so. The contracting officer must ensure that there is a formal change of accountability for the real property or equipment to a currently funded Federal award; and
(iii) The recipient's use of the real property or equipment for other projects is in the same order of priority as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(iv) If the only use for the real property or equipment is for projects that have no Federal sponsorship, the recipient must proceed with disposition of the real property or equipment in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.
(g)
Disposition.
(1) If, as determined by the contracting officer, an item of real property or equipment is no longer needed for Federally sponsored projects, or if the recipient has suspended work on the project, the recipient has the following options:
(i) If the property is equipment with a current per unit fair market value of less than $5,000, it may be retained, sold, or otherwise disposed of with no further obligation to DOE.
(ii) If the property is equipment (rather than real property) and with the written approval of the contracting officer, the recipient may replace it with an item that is needed currently
for the project by trading in or selling to offset the costs of the replacement equipment.
(iii) The recipient may elect to retain title, without further obligation to the Federal Government, by compensating the Federal Government for that percentage of the current fair market value of the real property or equipment that is attributable to the Federal participation in the project.
(iv) If the recipient does not elect to retain title to real property or equipment or does not request approval to use equipment as trade-in or offset for replacement equipment, the recipient must request disposition instructions from the responsible agency.
(2) If a recipient requests disposition instructions, the contracting officer must:
(i) For either real property or equipment, issue instructions to the recipient for disposition of the property no later than 120 calendar days after the recipient's request. The contracting officer's options for disposition are to direct the recipient to:
(A) Transfer title to the real property or equipment to the Federal Government or to a third party designated by the contracting officer provided that, in such cases, the recipient is entitled to compensation for its attributable percentage of the current fair market value of the real property or equipment, plus any reasonable shipping or interim storage costs incurred; or
(B) Sell the real property or equipment and pay the Federal Government for that percentage of the current fair market value of the property that is attributable to the Federal participation in the project (after deducting actual and reasonable selling and fix-up expenses, if any, from the sale proceeds). If the recipient is authorized or required to sell the real property or equipment, the recipient must use competitive procedures that result in the highest practicable return.
(3) If the contracting officer fails to issue disposition instructions within 120 calendar days of the recipient's request, the recipient must dispose of the real property or equipment through the option described in paragraph (g)(2)(i)(B) of this section.
[80 FR 53237, Sept. 3, 2015, as amended at 87 FR 15320, Mar. 18, 2022]
§ 910.362
Intellectual property.
(a)
Scope.
This section sets forth the policies with regard to disposition of rights to data and to inventions conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the course of, or under, a grant or cooperative agreement made to a For-Profit entity by DOE.
(b)
Patents right—small business concerns.
In accordance with 35 U.S.C. 202, if the recipient is a small business concern and receives a grant, cooperative agreement, subaward, or contract for research, developmental, or demonstration activities, then, unless there are “exceptional circumstances” as described in 35 U.S.C. 202(e), the award must contain the standard clause in appendix A to this subpart, entitled “Patents Rights (Small Business Firms and Nonprofit Organizations” which provides to the recipient the right to elect ownership of inventions made under the award.
(c)
Patent rights—other than small business concerns, e.g., large businesses
—
(1)
No Patent Waiver.
Except as provided by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, if the recipient is a for-profit organization other than a small business concern, as defined in 35 U.S.C. 201(h) and receives an award or a subaward for research, development, and demonstration activities, then, pursuant to statute, the award must contain the standard clause in appendix A to this subpart, entitled “Patent Rights (Large Business Firms)—No Waiver” which provides that DOE owns the patent rights to inventions made under the award.
(2)
Patent Waiver Granted.
Paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not apply if:
(i) DOE grants a class waiver for a particular program under 10 CFR part 784;
(ii) The applicant requests and receives an advance patent waiver under 10 CFR part 784; or
(iii) A subaward is covered by a waiver granted under the prime award.
(3)
Special Provision.
Normally, an award will not include a background patent and data provision. However,
under special circumstances, in order to provide heightened assurance of commercialization, a provision providing for a right to require licensing of third parties to background inventions, limited rights data and/or restricted computer software, may be included. Inclusion of a background patent and/or a data provision to assure commercialization will be done only with the written concurrence of the DOE program official setting forth the need for such assurance. An award may include the right to license the Government and third party contractors for special Government purposes when future availability of the technology would also benefit the government,
e.g.,
clean-up of DOE facilities. The scope of any such background patent and/or data licensing provision is subject to negotiation.
(d)
Rights in data—general rule.
(1) Subject to paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section, and except as otherwise provided by paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section or other law, any award under this subpart must contain the standard clause in appendix A to this subpart, entitled “Rights in Data—General”.
(2) Normally, an award will not require the delivery of limited rights data or restricted computer software. However, if the contracting officer, in consultation with DOE patent counsel and the DOE program official, determines that delivery of limited rights data or restricted computer software is necessary, the contracting officer, after negotiation with the applicant, may insert in the award the standard clause as modified by Alternates I and/or II set forth in appendix A to this subpart.
(3) If software is specified for delivery to DOE, or if other special circumstances exist,
e.g.,
DOE specifying “open-source” treatment of software, then the contracting officer, after negotiation with the recipient, may include in the award special provisions requiring the recipient to obtain written approval of the contracting officer prior to asserting copyright in the software, modifying the retained Government license, and/or otherwise altering the copyright provisions.
(e)
Rights in data—programs covered under special protected data statutes.
(1) If a statute, other than those providing for the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer Research (STTR) programs, provides for a period of time, typically up to five years, during which data produced under an award for research, development, and demonstration may be protected from public disclosure, then the contracting officer must insert in the award the standard clause in appendix A to this subpart entitled “Rights in Data—Programs Covered Under Special Protected Data Statutes” or, as determined in consultation with DOE patent counsel and the DOE program official, a modified version of such clause which may identify data or categories of data that the recipient must make available to the public.
(2) An award under paragraph (e)(1) of this section is subject to the provisions of paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section.
(f)
Rights in data—SBIR/STTR programs.
If an applicant receives an award under the SBIR or STTR program, then the contracting officer must insert in the award the standard data clause in the General Terms and Conditions for SBIR Grants, entitled “Rights in Data—SBIR Program”.
(g)
Authorization and consent.
(1) Work performed by a recipient under a grant is not subject to authorization and consent to the use of a patented invention, and the Government assumes no liability for patent infringement by the recipient under 28 U.S.C. 1498.
(2) Work performed by a recipient under a cooperative agreement is subject to authorization and consent to the use of a patented invention consistent with the principles set forth in 48 CFR 27.201-1.
(3) The contracting officer, in consultation with patent counsel, may also include clauses in the cooperative agreement addressing other patent matters related to authorization and consent, such as patent indemnification of the Government by recipient and notice and assistance regarding patent and copyright infringement. The policies and clauses for these other
patent matters will be the same or consistent with those in 48 CFR part 927.
§ 910.364
Reporting on utilization of subject inventions.
(a) Unless otherwise instructed, a recipient that obtains title to an invention made under an award shall submit annual reports on the utilization or efforts to obtain utilization of the invention for at least 10 years from the date the invention was first disclosed to DOE (Utilization Reports). Utilization Reports shall include at least the following information:
(1) Status of development;
(2) Date of first commercial sale or use;
(3) Gross royalties received by the recipient;
(4) The location of any manufacture of products embodying the subject invention; and
(5) Any such other data and information as DOE may reasonably specify.
(b) To the extent data or information supplied in a Utilization Report is considered by the recipient to be privileged and confidential and is so marked by the recipient, DOE agrees that, to the extent permitted by law, it shall not disclose such information to persons outside the Government.
[80 FR 53238, Sept. 3, 2015]
§ 910.366
Export Control and U.S. Manufacturing and Competitiveness.
(a)
Export Control.
Any recipient of any award for research, development and/or demonstration must comply with all applicable U.S. laws regarding export control.
(b)
U.S. Manufacturing and Competitiveness.
It is the policy of DOE to ensure that DOE-funded research, development, and/or demonstration projects foster domestic manufacturing. Funding opportunity announcements (FOAs), therefore, may require that applicants submit a “U.S. Manufacturing Plan” in their applications. Such FOAs may encourage U.S. Manufacturing Plans to include proposals by recipients and any sub-recipients to manufacture DOE-funded technologies in the United States; however, the FOAs will also state that these plans should not include requirements regarding the source of inputs used during the manufacturing process. Regardless of whether such plans will be part of the merit review criteria or a program policy factor, and to the extent legally permissible, all awards subject to this subpart, including subawards, for research, development, and/or demonstration, must include a provision that provides plans by the recipient and any subrecipients to support manufacturing in the United States of technology developed under the award. The recipient and any subrecipients must agree to make those plans binding on any assignee or licensee or any entity otherwise acquiring rights to any subject invention or developed technology covered under the award. A recipient, subrecipient, assignee, licensee, or any entity otherwise acquiring the rights to any subject invention or developed technology may request a waiver or modification of U.S. manufacturing plans from DOE. DOE will determine whether to approve such a waiver in light of equitable considerations, including, for example, whether the requester satisfactorily shows that the planned support is not economically feasible and whether there is a satisfactory alternative net benefit to the U.S. economy if the requested waiver or modification is approved.
[80 FR 53239, Sept. 3, 2015]
§ 910.368
Change of control.
(a) Change of control is defined as any of the following:
(1) Any event by which any individual or entity other than the recipient becomes the beneficial owner of more than 50% of the total voting power of the voting stock of the recipient;
(2) The recipient merges with or into any entity other than in a transaction in which the shares of the recipient's voting stock are converted into a majority of the voting stock of the surviving entity;
(3) The sale, lease or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the recipient to any individual or entity other than the recipient in one or a series of related transactions;
(4) The adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the recipient; or
(5) Where the recipient is a wholly-owned subsidiary at the time of award or novation, and the recipient's parent entity undergoes a change of control as defined in this section.
(b) When the Federal share of the financial assistance agreement is more than $10,000,000 or DOE requests the information in writing, the recipient must provide the contracting officer with documentation identifying all parties who exercise control in the recipient at the time of award.
(c) When there is a change of control of a recipient, or the recipient has reason to know a change of control is likely, the recipient must notify the contracting officer within 30 days of its knowledge of such change of control. Such notification must include, at a minimum, copies of documents necessary to reflect the transaction that resulted or will result in the change of control, and identification of all entities, individuals or other parties to such transaction. Failure to notify the contracting officer of a change of control is grounds for suspension or termination of the award for failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the award.
(d) The contracting officer must authorize a change of control for the purposes of the award. Failure to receive the contracting officer's authorization for a change of control may lead to a suspension of the award, termination for failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the award, or imposition of special award conditions pursuant to 2 CFR 910.372. Special award conditions may include but are not limited to:
(1) Additional reporting requirements related to the change of control; and
(2) Suspension of payments due to the recipient.
[80 FR 53239, Sept. 3, 2015]
§ 910.370
Novation of financial assistance agreements.
(a) Financial assistance agreements are not assignable absent written consent from the contracting officer. At his or her sole discretion, the contracting officer may, through novation, recognize a third party as the successor in interest to a financial assistance agreement if such recognition is in the Government's interest, conforms with all applicable laws and the third party's interest in the agreement arises out of the transfer of:
(1) All of the recipient's assets; or
(2) The entire portion of the assets necessary to perform the project described in the agreement.
(b) When the contracting officer determines that it is not in the Government's interest to consent to the novation of a financial assistance agreement from the original recipient to a third party, the original recipient remains subject to the terms of the financial assistance agreement, and the Department may exercise all legally available remedies under 2 CFR 200.339 through 200.343, or that may be otherwise available, should the original recipient not perform.
(c) The contracting officer may require submission of any documentation in support of a request for novation, including but not limited to documents identified in 48 CFR Subpart 42.12. The contracting officer may use the format in 48 CFR 42.1204 as guidance for novation agreements identified in paragraph (a) of this section.
[80 FR 53239, Sept. 3, 2015, as amended at 87 FR 15320, Mar. 18, 2022]
§ 910.372
Special award conditions.
(a) In addition to the requirements of 2 CFR 200.206, the following actions may require the use of Specific Conditions as identified in 2 CFR 200.208:
(1) Has not conformed to the terms and conditions of a previous award;
(2) Has a change of control as defined in § 910.368;
(3) Fails to comply with real property and equipment requirements at § 910.360; or
(4) Is not otherwise responsible.
[80 FR 53239, Sept. 3, 2015, as amended at 87 FR 15320, Mar. 18, 2022]
Pt. 910, Subpt. D, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 910—Patent and Data Provisions
1. Patent Rights (Small Business Firms and Nonprofit Organizations)
2. Patent Rights (Large Business Firms)—No Waiver
3. Rights in Data—General
4. Rights in Data—Programs Covered Under Special Protected Data Statutes

# 1. Patent Rights (Small Business Firms and Nonprofit Organizations)
(a) Definitions
Invention
means any invention or discovery which is or may be patentable or otherwise protectable under title 35 of the United States Code, or any novel variety of plant which is or may be protected under the Plant Variety Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 2321
et seq.
).
Made
when used in relation to any invention means the conception or first actual reduction to practice of such invention.
Nonprofit organization
is defined in 2 CFR 200.1.
Practical application
means to manufacture in the case of a composition or product, to practice in the case of a process or method, or to operate in the case of a machine or system; and, in each case, under such conditions as to establish that the invention is being utilized and that its benefits are to the extent permitted by law or Government regulations available to the public on reasonable terms.
Small business firm
means a small business concern as defined at section 2 of Public Law 85-536 (16 U.S.C. 632) and implementing regulations of the Administrator of the Small Business Administration. For the purpose of this clause, the size standards for small business concerns involved in Government procurement and subcontracting at 13 CFR 121.3 through 121.8 and 13 CFR 121.3 through 121.12, respectively, will be used.
Subject invention
means any invention of the Recipient conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the performance of work under this award, provided that in the case of a variety of plant, the date of determination (as defined in section 41(d) of the Plant Variety Protection Act, 7 U.S.C. 2401(d) must also occur during the period of award performance.
(b) Allocation of Principal Rights
The Recipient may retain the entire right, title, and interest throughout the world to each subject invention subject to the provisions of this Patent Rights clause and 35 U.S.C. 203. With respect to any subject invention in which the Recipient retains title, the Federal Government shall have a non-exclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced for or on behalf of the U.S. the subject invention throughout the world.
(c) Invention Disclosure, Election of Title and Filing of Patent Applications by Recipient
(1) The Recipient will disclose each subject invention to DOE within two months after the inventor discloses it in writing to Recipient personnel responsible for the administration of patent matters. The disclosure to DOE shall be in the form of a written report and shall identify the award under which the invention was made and the inventor(s). It shall be sufficiently complete in technical detail to convey a clear understanding to the extent known at the time of disclosure, of the nature, purpose, operation, and the physical, chemical, biological or electrical characteristics of the invention. The disclosure shall also identify any publication, on sale or public use of the invention and whether a manuscript describing the invention has been submitted for publication and, if so, whether it has been accepted for publication at the time of disclosure. In addition, after disclosure to DOE, the Recipient will promptly notify DOE of the acceptance of any manuscript describing the invention for publication or of any on sale or public use planned by the Recipient.
(2) The Recipient will elect in writing whether or not to retain title to any such invention by notifying DOE within two years of disclosure to DOE. However, in any case where publication, on sale, or public use has initiated the one-year statutory period wherein valid patent protection can still be obtained in the U.S., the period for election of title may be shortened by the agency to a date that is no more than 60 days prior to the end of the statutory period.
(3) The Recipient will file its initial patent application on an invention to which it elects to retain title within one year after election of title or, if earlier, prior to the end of any statutory period wherein valid patent protection can be obtained in the U.S. after a publication, on sale, or public use. The Recipient will file patent applications in additional countries or international patent offices within either ten months of the corresponding initial patent application, or six months from the date when permission is granted by the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks to file foreign patent applications when such filing has been prohibited by a Secrecy Order.
(4) Requests for extension of the time for disclosure to DOE, election, and filing under subparagraphs (c)(1), (2), and (3) of this clause may, at the discretion of DOE, be granted.
(d) Conditions When the Government May Obtain Title
The Recipient will convey to DOE, upon written request, title to any subject invention:
(1) If the Recipient fails to disclose or elect the subject invention within the times specified in paragraph (c) of this patent rights clause, or elects not to retain title; provided that DOE may only request title within 60 days after learning of the failure of the Recipient to disclose or elect within the specified times;
(2) In those countries in which the Recipient fails to file patent applications within the times specified in paragraph (c) of this Patent Rights clause; provided, however,
that if the Recipient has filed a patent application in a country after the times specified in paragraph (c) of this Patent Rights clause, but prior to its receipt of the written request of DOE, the Recipient shall continue to retain title in that country; or
(3) In any country in which the Recipient decides not to continue the prosecution of any application for, to pay the maintenance fees on, or defend in a reexamination or opposition proceeding on, a patent on a subject invention.
(e) Minimum Rights to Recipient and Protection of the Recipient Right To File
(1) The Recipient will retain a non-exclusive royalty-free license throughout the world in each subject invention to which the Government obtains title, except if the Recipient fails to disclose the subject invention within the times specified in paragraph (c) of this Patent Rights clause. The Recipient's license extends to its domestic subsidiaries and affiliates, if any, within the corporate structure of which the Recipient is a party and includes the right to grant sublicenses of the same scope of the extent the Recipient was legally obligated to do so at the time the award was awarded. The license is transferable only with the approval of DOE except when transferred to the successor of that part of the Recipient's business to which the invention pertains.
(2) The Recipient's domestic license may be revoked or modified by DOE to the extent necessary to achieve expeditious practical application of the subject invention pursuant to an application for an exclusive license submitted in accordance with applicable provisions at 37 CFR part 404 and the agency's licensing regulation, if any. This license will not be revoked in that field of use or the geographical areas in which the Recipient has achieved practical application and continues to make the benefits of the invention reasonably accessible to the public. The license in any foreign country may be revoked or modified at discretion of the funding Federal agency to the extent the Recipient, its licensees, or its domestic subsidiaries or affiliates have failed to achieve practical application in that foreign country.
(3) Before revocation or modification of the license, the funding Federal agency will furnish the Recipient a written notice of its intention to revoke or modify the license, and the Recipient will be allowed thirty days (or such other time as may be authorized by DOE for good cause shown by the Recipient) after the notice to show cause why the license should not be revoked or modified. The Recipient has the right to appeal, in accordance with applicable regulations in 37 CFR part 404 and the agency's licensing regulations, if any, concerning the licensing of Government-owned inventions, any decision concerning the revocation or modification of its license.
(f) Recipient Action To Protect Government's Interest
(1) The Recipient agrees to execute or to have executed and promptly deliver to DOE all instruments necessary to:
(i) Establish or confirm the rights the Government has throughout the world in those subject inventions for which the Recipient retains title; and
(ii) Convey title to DOE when requested under paragraph (d) of this Patent Rights clause, and to enable the government to obtain patent protection throughout the world in that subject invention.
(2) The Recipient agrees to require, by written agreement, its employees, other than clerical and non-technical employees, to disclose promptly in writing to personnel identified as responsible for the administration of patent matters and in a format suggested by the Recipient each subject invention made under this award in order that the Recipient can comply with the disclosure provisions of paragraph (c) of this Patent Rights clause, and to execute all papers necessary to file patent applications on subject inventions and to establish the Government's rights in the subject inventions. The disclosure format should require, as a minimum, the information requested by paragraph (c)(1) of this Patent Rights clause. The Recipient shall instruct such employees through the employee agreements or other suitable educational programs on the importance of reporting inventions in sufficient time to permit the filing of patent applications prior to U.S. or foreign statutory bars.
(3) The Recipient will notify DOE of any decision not to continue prosecution of a patent application, pay maintenance fees, or defend in a reexamination or opposition proceeding on a patent, in any country, not less than 30 days before the expiration of the response period required by the relevant patent office.
(4) The Recipient agrees to include, within the specification of any U.S. patent application and any patent issuing thereon covering a subject invention, the following statement: “This invention was made with Government support under (identify the award) awarded by (identify DOE). The Government has certain rights in this invention.”
(g) Subaward/Contract
(1) The Recipient will include this Patent Rights clause, suitably modified to identify the parties, in all subawards/contracts, regardless of tier, for experimental, developmental or research work to be performed by a small business firm or nonprofit organization. The subrecipient/contractor will retain all rights provided for the Recipient in this Patent Rights clause, and the Recipient will not, as part of the consideration for awarding the subcontract, obtain rights in the subcontractors' subject inventions.
(2) The Recipient will include in all other subawards/contracts, regardless of tier, for experimental, developmental or research work, the patent rights clause required by 2 CFR 910.362(c).
(3) In the case of subawards/contracts at any tier, DOE, the Recipient, and the subrecipient/contractor agree that the mutual obligations of the parties created by this clause constitute a contract between the subrecipient/contractor and DOE with respect to those matters covered by the clause.
(h) Reporting on Utilization of Subject Inventions
The Recipient agrees to submit on request periodic reports no more frequently than annually on the utilization of a subject invention or on efforts at obtaining such utilization that are being made by the Recipient or its licensees or assignees. Such reports shall include information regarding the status of development, date of first commercial sale or use, gross royalties received by the Recipient and such other data and information as DOE may reasonably specify. The Recipient also agrees to provide additional reports in connection with any march-in proceeding undertaken by DOE in accordance with paragraph (j) of this Patent Rights clause. As required by 35 U.S.C. 202(c)(5), DOE agrees it will not disclose such information to persons outside the Government without the permission of the Recipient.
(i) Preference for United States Industry.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Patent Rights clause, the Recipient agrees that neither it nor any assignee will grant to any person the exclusive right to use or sell any subject invention in the U.S. unless such person agrees that any products embodying the subject invention or produced through the use of the subject invention will be manufactured substantially in the U.S. However, in individual cases, the requirement for such an agreement may be waived by DOE upon a showing by the Recipient or its assignee that reasonable but unsuccessful efforts have been made to grant licenses on similar terms to potential licensees that would be likely to manufacture substantially in the U.S. or that under the circumstances domestic manufacture is not commercially feasible.
(j) March-in-Rights
The Recipient agrees that with respect to any subject invention in which it has acquired title, DOE has the right in accordance with procedures at 37 CFR 401.6 and any supplemental regulations of the Agency to require the Recipient, an assignee or exclusive licensee of a subject invention to grant a non-exclusive, partially exclusive, or exclusive license in any field of use to a responsible applicant or applicants, upon terms that are reasonable under the circumstances and if the Recipient, assignee, or exclusive licensee refuses such a request, DOE has the right to grant such a license itself if DOE determines that:
(1) Such action is necessary because the Recipient or assignee has not taken or is not expected to take within a reasonable time, effective steps to achieve practical application of the subject invention in such field of use;
(2) Such action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs which are not reasonably satisfied by the Recipient, assignee, or their licensees;
(3) Such action is necessary to meet requirements for public use specified by Federal regulations and such requirements are not reasonably satisfied by the Recipient, assignee, or licensee; or
(4) Such action is necessary because the agreement required by paragraph (i) of this Patent Rights clause has not been obtained or waived or because a licensee of the exclusive right to use or sell any subject invention in the U.S. is in breach of such agreement.
(k) Special Provisions for Awards With Nonprofit Organizations
If the Recipient is a nonprofit organization, it agrees that:
(1) Rights to a subject invention in the U.S. may not be assigned without the approval of DOE, except where such assignment is made to an organization which has as one of its primary functions the management of inventions, provided that such assignee will be subject to the same provisions as the Recipient;
(2) The Recipient will share royalties collected on a subject invention with the inventor, including Federal employee co-inventors (when DOE deems it appropriate) when the subject invention is assigned in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 202(e) and 37 CFR 401.10;
(3) The balance of any royalties or income earned by the Recipient with respect to subject inventions, after payment of expenses (including payments to inventors) incidental to the administration of subject inventions, will be utilized for the support of scientific or engineering research or education; and
(4) It will make efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to attract licensees of subject inventions that are small business firms and that it will give preference to a small business firm if the Recipient determines that the small business firm has a plan or proposal for marketing the invention which, if executed, is equally likely to bring the invention to practical application as any plans or proposals from applicants that are not small business firms; provided that the Recipient is also satisfied that the small business firm has the capability and resources to carry out its plan or proposal. The decision whether to give a preference in any specific case will be at the discretion of the Recipient. However, the Recipient agrees that the Secretary of Commerce may review
the Recipient's licensing program and decisions regarding small business applicants, and the Recipient will negotiate changes to its licensing policies, procedures or practices with the Secretary when the Secretary's review discloses that the Recipient could take reasonable steps to implement more effectively the requirements of this paragraph (k)(4).
(l) Communications
All communications required by this Patent Rights clause should be sent to the DOE Patent Counsel address listed in the Award Document.
(m) Electronic Filing
Unless otherwise specified in the award, the information identified in paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) may be electronically filed.

# (End of clause)

# 2. Patent Rights (Large Business Firms)—No Waiver
(a) Definitions
DOE patent waiver regulations,
as used in this clause, means the Department of Energy patent waiver regulations in effect on the date of award. See 10 CFR part 784.
Invention,
as used in this clause, means any invention or discovery which is or may be patentable of otherwise protectable under title 35 of the United States Code or any novel variety of plant that is or may be protectable under the Plant Variety Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 2321,
et seq.
).
Patent Counsel,
as used in this clause, means the Department of Energy Patent Counsel assisting the awarding activity.
Subject invention,
as used in this clause, means any invention of the Recipient conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the course of or under this agreement.
(b) Allocations of Principal Rights
(1) Assignment to the Government. The Recipient agrees to assign to the Government the entire right, title, and interest throughout the world in and to each subject invention, except to the extent that rights are retained by the Recipient under subparagraph (b)(2) and paragraph (d) of this clause.
(2) Greater rights determinations. The Recipient, or an employee-inventor after consultation with the Recipient, may request greater rights than the nonexclusive license and the foreign patent rights provided in paragraph (d) of this clause on identified inventions in accordance with the DOE patent waiver regulation. Each determination of greater rights under this agreement shall be subject to paragraph (c) of this clause, unless otherwise provided in the greater rights determination, and to the reservations and conditions deemed to be appropriate by the Secretary of Energy or designee.
(c) Minimum Rights Acquired by the Government
With respect to each subject invention to which the Department of Energy grants the Recipient principal or exclusive rights, the Recipient agrees to grant to the Government: A nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced each subject invention throughout the world by or on behalf of the Government of the United States (including any Government agency); “march-in rights” as set forth in 37 CFR 401.14(a)(J)); preference for U.S. industry as set forth in 37 CFR 401.14(a)(I); periodic reports upon request, no more frequently than annually, on the utilization or intent of utilization of a subject invention in a manner consistent with 35 U.S.C. 202(c)(50); and such Government rights in any instrument transferring rights in a subject invention.
(d) Minimum Rights to the Recipient
(1) The Recipient is hereby granted a revocable, nonexclusive, royalty-free license in each patent application filed in any country on a subject invention and any resulting patent in which the Government obtains title, unless the Recipient fails to disclose the subject invention within the times specified in subparagraph (e)(2) of this clause. The Recipient's license extends to its domestic subsidiaries and affiliates, if any, within the corporate structure of which the Recipient is a part and includes the right to grant sublicenses of the same scope to the extent the Recipient was legally obligated to do so at the time the agreement was awarded. The license is transferable only with the approval of DOE except when transferred to the successor of that part of the Recipient's business to which the invention pertains.
(2) The Recipient may request the right to acquire patent rights to a subject invention in any foreign country where the Government has elected not to secure such rights, subject to the minimum rights acquired by the Government similar to paragraph (c) of this clause. Such request must be made in writhing to the Patent Counsel as part of the disclosure required by subparagraph (e)(2) of this clause, with a copy to the DOE Contracting Officer. DOE approval, if given, will be based on a determination that this would best serve the national interest.
(e) Invention Identification, Disclosures, and Reports
(1) The Recipient shall establish and maintain active and effective procedures to assure that subject inventions are promptly identified and disclosed to Recipient personnel responsible for patent matters within 6 months of conception and/or first actual reduction to practice, whichever occurs first in the performance of work under this agreement. These procedures shall include the maintenance of laboratory notebooks or equivalent records and other records as are reasonably necessary to document the conception and/or the first actual reduction to
practice of subject inventions, and records that show that the procedures for identifying and disclosing the inventions are followed. Upon request, the Recipient shall furnish the Contracting Officer a description of such procedures for evaluation and for determination as to their effectiveness.
(2) The Recipient shall disclose each subject invention to the DOE Patent Counsel with a copy to the Contracting Officer within 2 months after the inventor discloses it in writing to Recipient personnel responsible for patent matters or, if earlier, within 6 months after the Recipient becomes aware that a subject invention has been made, but in any event before any on sale, public use, or publication of such invention known to the Recipient. The disclosure to DOE shall be in the form of a written report and shall identify the agreement under which the invention was made and the inventor(s). It shall be sufficiently complete in technical detail to convey a clear understanding, to the extent known at the time of the disclosure, of the nature, purpose, operation, and physical, chemical, biological, or electrical characteristics of the invention. The disclosure shall also identify any publication, on sale, or public use of the invention and whether a manuscript describing the invention has been submitted for publication and, if so, whether it has been accepted for publication at the time of disclosure. In addition, after disclosure to DOE, the Recipient shall promptly notify Patent Counsel of the acceptance of any manuscript describing the invention for publication or of any on sale or public use planned by the Recipient. The report should also include any request for a greater rights determination in accordance with subparagraph (b)(2) of this clause. When an invention is disclosed to DOE under this paragraph, it shall be deemed to have been made in the manner specified in Sections (a)(1) and (a)(2) of 42 U.S.C. 5908, unless the Recipient contends in writing at the time the invention is disclosed that it was not so made.
(3) The Recipient shall furnish the Contracting Officer a final report, within 3 months after completion of the work listing all subject inventions or containing a statement that there were no such inventions, and listing all subawards/contracts at any tier containing a patent rights clause or containing a statement that there were no such subawards/contracts.
(4) The Recipient agrees to require, by written agreement, its employees, other than clerical and nontechnical employees, to disclose promptly in writing to personnel identified as responsible for the administration of patent matters and in a format suggested by the Recipient each subject invention made under subaward/contract in order that the Recipient can comply with the disclosure provisions of paragraph (c) of this clause, and to execute all papers necessary to file patent applications on subject inventions and to establish the Government's rights in the subject inventions. This disclosure format should require, as a minimum, the information required by subparagraph (e)(2) of this clause.
(5) The Recipient agrees, subject to FAR 27.302(j), that the Government may duplicate and disclose subject invention disclosures and all other reports and papers furnished or required to be furnished pursuant to this clause.
(f) Examination of Records Relating to Inventions
(1) The Contracting Officer or any authorized representative shall, until 3 years after final payment under this agreement, have the right to examine any books (including laboratory notebooks), records, and documents of the Recipient relating to the conception or first actual reduction to practice of inventions in the same field of technology as the work under this agreement to determine whether—(i) Any such inventions are subject inventions; (ii) The Recipient has established and maintains the procedures required by subparagraphs (e)(1) and (4) of this clause; (iii) The Recipient and its inventors have complied with the procedures.
(2) If the Contracting Officer learns of an unreported Recipient invention which the Contracting Officer believes may be a subject invention, the Recipient may be required to disclose the invention to DOE for a determination of ownership rights.
(3) Any examination of records under this paragraph will be subject to appropriate conditions to protect the confidentiality of the information involved.
(g) Subaward/Contract
(1) The recipient shall include the clause PATENT RIGHTS (SMALL BUSINESS FIRMS AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS) (suitably modified to identify the parties) in all subawards/contracts, regardless of tier, for experimental, developmental, demonstration, or research work to be performed by a small business firm or domestic nonprofit organization, except where the work of the subaward/contract is subject to an Exceptional Circumstances Determination by DOE. In all other subawards/contracts, regardless of tier, for experimental, developmental, demonstration, or research work, the Recipient shall include this clause (suitably modified to identify the parties), or an alternate clause as directed by the contracting officer. The Recipient shall not, as part of the consideration for awarding the subaward/contract, obtain rights in the subrecipient's/contractor's subject inventions.
(2) In the event of a refusal by a prospective subrecipient/contractor to accept such a
clause the Recipient: (i) Shall promptly submit a written notice to the Contracting Officer setting forth the subrecipient/contractor's reasons for such refusal and other pertinent information that may expedite disposition of the matter; and (ii) Shall not proceed with such subaward/contract without the written authorization of the Contracting Officer.
(3) In the case of subawards/contracts at any tier, DOE, the subrecipient/contractor, and Recipient agree that the mutual obligations of the parties created by this clause constitute a contract between the subrecipient/contractor and DOE with respect to those matters covered by this clause.
(4) The Recipient shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer in writing upon the award of any subaward/contract at any tier containing a patent rights clause by identifying the subrecipient/contractor, the applicable patent rights clause, the work to be performed under the subaward/contract, and the dates of award and estimated completion. Upon request of the Contracting Officer, the Recipient shall furnish a copy of such subaward/contract, and, no more frequently than annually, a listing of the subawards/contracts that have been awarded.
(5) The Recipient shall identify all subject inventions of a subrecipient/contractor of which it acquires knowledge in the performance of this agreement and shall notify the Patent Counsel, with a copy to the contracting officer, promptly upon identification of the inventions.
(h) Atomic Energy
(1) No claim for pecuniary award of compensation under the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, shall be asserted with respect to any invention or discovery made or conceived in the course of or under this agreement.
(2) Except as otherwise authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer, the Recipient will obtain patent agreements to effectuate the provisions of subparagraph (h)(1) of this clause from all persons who perform any part of the work under this agreement, except nontechnical personnel, such as clerical employees and manual laborers.
(i) Publication
It is recognized that during the course of the work under this agreement, the Recipient or its employees may from time to time desire to release or publish information regarding scientific or technical developments conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the course of or under this agreement. In order that public disclosure of such information will not adversely affect the patent interests of DOE or the Recipient, patent approval for release of publication shall be secured from Patent Counsel prior to any such release or publication.
(j) Forfeiture of Rights in Unreported Subject Inventions
(1) The Recipient shall forfeit and assign to the Government, at the request of the Secretary of Energy or designee, all rights in any subject invention which the Recipient fails to report to Patent Counsel within six months after the time the Recipient: (i) Files or causes to be filed a United States or foreign patent application thereon; or (ii) Submits the final report required by subparagraph (e)(3) of this clause, whichever is later.
(2) However, the Recipient shall not forfeit rights in a subject invention if, within the time specified in subparagraph (e)(2) of this clause, the Recipient: (i) Prepares a written decision based upon a review of the record that the invention was neither conceived nor first actually reduced to practice in the course of or under the agreement and delivers the decision to Patent Counsel, with a copy to the Contracting Officer, or (ii) Contending that the invention is not a subject invention, the Recipient nevertheless discloses the invention and all facts pertinent to this contention to the Patent Counsel, with a copy of the Contracting Officer; or (iii) Establishes that the failure to disclose did not result from the Recipient's fault or negligence.
(3) Pending written assignment of the patent application and patents on a subject invention determined by the Secretary of Energy or designee to be forfeited (such determination to be a final decision under the Disputes clause of this agreement), the Recipient shall be deemed to hold the invention and the patent applications and patents pertaining thereto in trust for the Government. The forfeiture provision of this paragraph (j) shall be in addition to and shall not supersede other rights and remedies which the Government may have with respect to subject inventions.

# (End of clause)

# 3. Rights in Data—General
(a) Definitions
Computer Data Bases,
as used in this clause, means a collection of data in a form capable of, and for the purpose of, being stored in, processed, and operated on by a computer. The term does not include computer software.
Computer software,
as used in this clause, means (i) computer programs which are data comprising a series of instructions, rules, routines or statements, regardless of the media in which recorded, that allow or cause a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations and (ii) data comprising source code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulae, and related material that would enable the computer program to be produced, created or compiled. The term does not include computer data bases.
Data,
as used in this clause, means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer software. The term does not include information incidental to administration, such as financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management information.
Form, fit, and function data,
as used in this clause, means data relating to items, components, or processes that are sufficient to enable physical and functional interchangeability, as well as data identifying source, size, configuration, mating, and attachment characteristics, functional characteristics, and performance requirements; except that for computer software it means data identifying source, functional characteristics, and performance requirements but specifically excludes the source code, algorithm, process, formulae, and flow charts of the software.
Limited rights,
as used in this clause, means the rights of the Government in limited rights data as set forth in the Limited Rights Notice of subparagraph (g)(2) if included in this clause.
Limited rights data,
as used in this clause, means data (other than computer software) developed at private expense that embody trade secrets or are commercial or financial and confidential or privileged.
Restricted computer software,
as used in this clause, means computer software developed at private expense and that is a trade secret; is commercial or financial and is confidential or privileged; or is published copyrighted computer software; including minor modifications of such computer software.
Restricted rights,
as used in this clause, means the rights of the Government in restricted computer software, as set forth in a Restricted Rights Notice of subparagraph (g)(3) if included in this clause, or as otherwise may be provided in a collateral agreement incorporated in and made part of this contract, including minor modifications of such computer software.
Technical data,
as used in this clause, means data (other than computer software) which are of a scientific or technical nature. Technical data does not include computer software, but does include manuals and instructional materials and technical data formatted as a computer data base.
Unlimited rights,
as used in this clause, means the right of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so.
(b) Allocations of Rights
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause regarding copyright, the Government shall have unlimited rights in—
(i) Data first produced in the performance of this agreement;
(ii) Form, fit, and function data delivered under this agreement;
(iii) Data delivered under this agreement (except for restricted computer software) that constitute manuals or instructional and training material for installation, operation, or routine maintenance and repair of items, components, or processes delivered or furnished for use under this agreement; and
(iv) All other data delivered under this agreement unless provided otherwise for limited rights data or restricted computer software in accordance with paragraph (g) of this clause.
(2) The Recipient shall have the right to—
(i) Use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced or specifically used by the Recipient in the performance of this agreement, unless provided otherwise in paragraph (d) of this clause;
(ii) Protect from unauthorized disclosure and use those data which are limited rights data or restricted computer software to the extent provided in paragraph (g) of this clause;
(iii) Substantiate use of, add or correct limited rights, restricted rights, or copyright notices and to take over appropriate action, in accordance with paragraphs (e) and (f) of this clause; and
(iv) Establish claim to copyright subsisting in data first produced in the performance of this agreement to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause.
(c) Copyright
(1) Data first produced in the performance of this agreement. Unless provided otherwise in paragraph (d) of this clause, the Recipient may establish, without prior approval of the Contracting Officer, claim to copyright subsisting in data first produced in the performance of this agreement. When claim to copyright is made, the Recipient shall affix the applicable copyright notices of 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402 and acknowledgement of Government sponsorship (including agreement number) to the data when such data are delivered to the Government, as well as when the data are published or deposited for registration as a published work in the U.S. Copyright Office. For such copyrighted data, including computer software, the Recipient grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up nonexclusive, irrevocable worldwide license in such copyrighted data to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of the Government.
(2) Data not first produced in the performance of this agreement. The Recipient shall not, without prior written permission of the Contracting Officer, incorporate in data delivered under this agreement any data not first produced in the performance of this agreement and which contains the copyright
notice of 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402, unless the Recipient identifies such data and grants to the Government, or acquires on its behalf, a license of the same scope as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause; provided, however, that if such data are computer software the Government shall acquire a copyright license as set forth in paragraph (g)(3) of this clause if included in this agreement or as otherwise may be provided in a collateral agreement incorporated in or made part of this agreement.
(3) Removal of copyright notices. The Government agrees not to remove any copyright notices placed on data pursuant to this paragraph (c), and to include such notices on all reproductions of the data.
(d) Release, Publication and Use of Data
(1) The Recipient shall have the right to use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced or specifically used by the Recipient in the performance of this agreement, except to the extent such data may be subject to the Federal export control or national security laws or regulations, or unless otherwise provided in this paragraph of this clause or expressly set forth in this agreement.
(2) The Recipient agrees that to the extent it receives or is given access to data necessary for the performance of this award, which contain restrictive markings, the Recipient shall treat the data in accordance with such markings unless otherwise specifically authorized in writing by the contracting officer.
(e) Unauthorized Marking of Data
(1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement concerning inspection or acceptance, if any data delivered under this agreement are marked with the notices specified in paragraph (g)(2) or (g)(3) of this clause and use of such is not authorized by this clause, or if such data bears any other restrictive or limiting markings not authorized by this agreement, the Contracting Officer may at any time either return the data to the Recipient or cancel or ignore the markings. However, the following procedures shall apply prior to canceling or ignoring the markings.
(i) The Contracting Officer shall make written inquiry to the Recipient affording the Recipient 30 days from receipt of the inquiry to provide written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings;
(ii) If the Recipient fails to respond or fails to provide written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings within the 30-day period (or a longer time not exceeding 90 days approved in writing by the Contracting Officer for good cause shown), the Government shall have the right to cancel or ignore the markings at any time after said period and the data will no longer be made subject to any disclosure prohibitions.
(iii) If the Recipient provides written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings within the period set in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this clause, the Contracting Officer shall consider such written justification and determine whether or not the markings are to be cancelled or ignored. If the Contracting Officer determines that the markings are authorized, the Recipient shall be so notified in writing. If the Contracting Officer determines, with concurrence of the head of the contracting activity, that the markings are not authorized, the Contracting Officer shall furnish the Recipient a written determination, which determination shall become the final agency decision regarding the appropriateness of the markings unless the Recipient files suit in a court of competent jurisdiction within 90 days of receipt of the Contracting Officer's decision. The Government shall continue to abide by the markings under this paragraph (e)(1)(iii) until final resolution of the matter either by the Contracting Officer's determination becoming final (in which instance the Government shall thereafter have the right to cancel or ignore the markings at any time and the data will no longer be made subject to any disclosure prohibitions), or by final disposition of the matter by court decision if suit is filed.
(2) The time limits in the procedures set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this clause may be modified in accordance with agency regulations implementing the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) if necessary to respond to a request thereunder.
(f) Omitted or Incorrect Markings
(1) Data delivered to the Government without either the limited rights or restricted rights notice as authorized by paragraph (g) of this clause, or the copyright notice required by paragraph (c) of this clause, shall be deemed to have been furnished with unlimited rights, and the Government assumes no liability for the disclosure, use, or reproduction of such data. However, to the extent the data has not been disclosed without restriction outside the Government, the Recipient may request, within 6 months (or a longer time approved by the Contracting Officer for good cause shown) after delivery or such data, permission to have notices placed on qualifying data at the Recipient's expense, and the Contracting Officer may agree to do so if the Recipient:
(i) Identifies the data to which the omitted notice is to be applied;
(ii) Demonstrates that the omission of the notice was inadvertent;
(iii) Establishes that the use of the proposed notice is authorized; and
(iv) Acknowledges that the Government has no liability with respect to the disclosure, use, or reproduction of any such data made prior to the addition of the notice or resulting from the omission of the notice.
(2) The Contracting Officer may also:
(i) Permit correction at the Recipient's expense of incorrect notices if the Recipient identifies the data on which correction of the notice is to be made, and demonstrates that the correct notice is authorized, or
(ii) Correct any incorrect notices.
(g) Protection of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software
When data other than that listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this clause are specified to be delivered under this agreement and qualify as either limited rights data or restricted computer software, if the Recipient desires to continue protection of such data, the Recipient shall withhold such data and not furnish them to the Government under this agreement. As a condition to this withholding, the Recipient shall identify the data being withheld and furnish form, fit, and function data in lieu thereof. Limited rights data that are formatted as a computer data base for delivery to the Government are to be treated as limited rights data and not restricted computer software.
(h) Subaward/Contract
The Recipient has the responsibility to obtain from its subrecipients/contractors all data and rights therein necessary to fulfill the Recipient's obligations to the Government under this agreement. If a subrecipient/contractor refuses to accept terms affording the Government such rights, the Recipient shall promptly bring such refusal to the attention of the Contracting Officer and not proceed with the subaward/contract award without further authorization.
(i) Additional Data Requirements
In addition to the data specified elsewhere in this agreement to be delivered, the Contracting Officer may, at any time during agreement performance or within a period of 3 years after acceptance of all items to be delivered under this agreement, order any data first produced or specifically used in the performance of this agreement. This clause is applicable to all data ordered under this subparagraph. Nothing contained in this subparagraph shall require the Recipient to deliver any data the withholding of which is authorized by this clause, or data which are specifically identified in this agreement as not subject to this clause. When data are to be delivered under this subparagraph, the Recipient will be compensated for converting the data into the prescribed form, for reproduction, and for delivery.
(j) The recipient agrees, except as may be otherwise specified in this award for specific data items listed as not subject to this paragraph, that the Contracting Officer or an authorized representative may, up to three years after acceptance of all items to be delivered under this award, inspect at the Recipient's facility any data withheld pursuant to paragraph (g) of this clause, for purposes of verifying the Recipient's assertion pertaining to the limited rights or restricted rights status of the data or for evaluating work performance. Where the Recipient whose data are to be inspected demonstrates to the Contracting Officer that there would be a possible conflict of interest if the inspection were made by a particular representative, the Contracting Officer shall designate an alternate inspector.
As prescribed in 2 CFR 910.362(d)(1), the following Alternate I and/or II may be inserted in the clause in the award instrument.

# Alternate I:
(g)(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (g)(1) of this clause, the agreement may identify and specify the delivery of limited rights data, or the Contracting Officer may require by written request the delivery of limited rights data that has been withheld or would otherwise be withholdable. If delivery of such data is so required, the Recipient may affix the following “Limited Rights Notice” to the data and the Government will thereafter treat the data, in accordance with such Notice:

# Limited Rights Notice
(a) These data are submitted with limited rights under Government agreement No. ____ (and subaward/contract No. ______, if appropriate). These data may be reproduced and used by the Government with the express limitation that they will not, without written permission of the Recipient, be used for purposes of manufacture nor disclosed outside the Government; except that the Government may disclose these data outside the Government for the following purposes, if any, provided that the Government makes such disclosure subject to prohibition against further use and disclosure:
(1) Use (except for manufacture) by Federal support services contractors within the scope of their contracts;
(2) This “limited rights data” may be disclosed for evaluation purposes under the restriction that the “limited rights data” be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed;
(3) This “limited rights data” may be disclosed to other contractors participating in the Government's program of which this Recipient is a part for information or use (except for manufacture) in connection with the work performed under their awards and under the restriction that the “limited rights data” be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed;
(4) This “limited rights data” may be used by the Government or others on its behalf for emergency repair or overhaul work under the restriction that the “limited rights data” be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed; and
(5) Release to a foreign government, or instrumentality thereof, as the interests of the United States Government may require, for information or evaluation, or for emergency repair or overhaul work by such government. This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this data in whole or in part.
(b) This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of these data, in whole or in part.

# (End of notice)

# Alternate II:
(g)(3)(i) Notwithstanding paragraph (g)(1) of this clause, the agreement may identify and specify the delivery of restricted computer software, or the Contracting Officer may require by written request the delivery of restricted computer software that has been withheld or would otherwise be withholdable. If delivery of such computer software is so required, the Recipient may affix the following “Restricted Rights Notice” to the computer software and the Government will thereafter treat the computer software, subject to paragraphs (e) and (f) of this clause, in accordance with the Notice.

# Restricted Rights Notice
(a) This computer software is submitted with restricted rights under Government Agreement No.________ (and subaward/contract ________, if appropriate). It may not be used, reproduced, or disclosed by the Government except as provided in paragraph (b) of this Notice or as otherwise expressly stated in the agreement.
(b) This computer software may be—
(1) Used or copies for use in or with the computer or computers for which it was acquired, including use at any Government installation to which such computer or computers may be transferred;
(2) Used or copied for use in a backup computer if any computer or which it was acquired is inoperative;
(3) Reproduced for safekeeping (archives) or backup purposes;
(4) Modified, adapted, or combined with other computer software, provided that the modified, combined, or adapted portions of the derivative software are made subject to the same restricted rights;
(5) Disclosed to and reproduced for use by support service Recipients in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) through (4) of this clause, provided the Government makes such disclosure or reproduction subject to these restricted rights; and
(6) Used or copied for use in or transferred to a replacement computer.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if this computer software is published copyrighted computer software, it is licensed to the Government, without disclosure prohibitions, with the minimum rights set forth in paragraph (b) of this clause.
(d) Any other rights or limitations regarding the use, duplication, or disclosure of this computer software are to be expressly stated, in, or incorporated in, the agreement.
(e) This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this computer software, in whole or in part.

# (End of notice)
(ii) Where it is impractical to include the Restricted Rights Notice on restricted computer software, the following short-form Notice may be used in lieu thereof:

# Restricted Rights Notice
Use, reproduction, or disclosure is subject to restrictions set forth in agreement No. ______ (and subaward/contract______, If appropriate) with ______(name of Recipient and subrecipient/contractor).

# (End of notice)
(iii) If restricted computer software is delivered with the copyright notice of 17 U.S.C. 401, it will be presumed to be published copyrighted computer software licensed to the government without disclosure prohibitions, with the minimum rights set forth in paragraph (b) of this clause, unless the Recipient includes the following statement with such copyright notice: “Unpublished—rights reserved under the Copyright Laws of the United States.”

# (End of clause)

# 4. Rights in Data—Programs Covered Under Special Data Statutes
(a) Definitions
Computer Data Bases,
as used in this clause, means a collection of data in a form capable of, and for the purpose of, being stored in, processed, and operated on by a computer. The term does not include computer software.
Computer software,
as used in this clause, means
(i) computer programs which are data comprising a series of instructions, rules, routines, or statements, regardless of the media in which recorded, that allow or cause a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations and
(ii) data comprising source code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulae and related material that would enable the computer program to be produced, created or compiled. The term does not include computer data bases.
Data,
as used in this clause, means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer
software. The term does not include information incidental to administration, such as financial, administrative, cost or pricing or management information.
Form, fit, and function data,
as used in this clause, means data relating to items, components, or processes that are sufficient to enable physical and functional interchangeability as well as data identifying source, size, configuration, mating and attachment characteristics, functional characteristics, and performance requirements except that for computer software it means data identifying source, functional characteristics, and performance requirements but specifically excludes the source code, algorithm, process, formulae, and flow charts of the software.
Limited rights data,
as used in this clause, means data (other than computer software) developed at private expense that embody trade secrets or are commercial or financial and confidential or privileged.
Restricted computer software,
as used in this clause, means computer software developed at private expense and that is a trade secret; is commercial or financial and confidential or privileged; or is published copyrighted computer software; including modifications of such computer software.
Protected data,
as used in this clause, means technical data or commercial or financial data first produced in the performance of the award which, if it had been obtained from and first produced by a non-federal party, would be a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential under the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) and which data is marked as being protected data by a party to the award.
Protected rights,
as used in this clause, mean the rights in protected data set forth in the Protected Rights Notice of paragraph (g) of this clause.
Technical data,
as used in this clause, means that data which are of a scientific or technical nature. Technical data does not include computer software, but does include manuals and instructional materials and technical data formatted as a computer data base.
Unlimited rights,
as used in this clause, means the right of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose whatsoever, and to have or permit others to do so.
(b) Allocation of Rights
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause regarding copyright, the Government shall have unlimited rights in—
(i) Data specifically identified in this agreement as data to be delivered without restriction;
(ii) Form, fit, and function data delivered under this agreement;
(iii) Data delivered under this agreement (except for restricted computer software) that constitute manuals or instructional and training material for installation, operation, or routine maintenance and repair of items, components, or processes delivered or furnished for use under this agreement; and
(iv) All other data delivered under this agreement unless provided otherwise for protected data in accordance with paragraph (g) of this clause or for limited rights data or restricted computer software in accordance with paragraph (h) of this clause.
(2) The Recipient shall have the right to—
(i) Protect rights in protected data delivered under this agreement in the manner and to the extent provided in paragraph (g) of this clause;
(ii) Withhold from delivery those data which are limited rights data or restricted computer software to the extent provided in paragraph (h) of this clause;
(iii) Substantiate use of, add, or correct protected rights or copyrights notices and to take other appropriate action, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this clause; and
(iv) Establish claim to copyright subsisting in data first produced in the performance of this agreement to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause.
(c) Copyright
(1) Data first produced in the performance of this agreement. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this agreement, the Recipient may establish, without the prior approval of the Contracting Officer, claim to copyright subsisting in any data first produced in the performance of this agreement. If claim to copyright is made, the Recipient shall affix the applicable copyright notice of 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402 and acknowledgment of Government sponsorship (including agreement number) to the data when such data are delivered to the Government, as well as when the data are published or deposited for registration as a published work in the U.S. Copyright Office. For such copyrighted data, including computer software, the Recipient grants to the Government, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of the Government, for all such data.
(2) Data not first produced in the performance of this agreement. The Recipient shall not, without prior written permission of the Contracting Officer, incorporate in data delivered under this agreement any data that are not first produced in the performance of this agreement and that contain the copyright notice of 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402, unless the Recipient identifies such data and grants to the Government, or acquires on its behalf, a license of the same scope as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause; provided,
however, that if such data are computer software, the Government shall acquire a copyright license as set forth in paragraph (h)(3) of this clause if included in this agreement or as otherwise may be provided in a collateral agreement incorporated or made a part of this agreement.
(3) Removal of copyright notices. The Government agrees not to remove any copyright notices placed on data pursuant to this paragraph (c), and to include such notices on all reproductions of the data.
(d) Release, Publication and Use of Data
(1) The Receipt shall have the right to use, release to others, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data first produced or specifically used by the Recipient in the performance of this contract, except to the extent such data may be subject to the Federal export control or national security laws or regulations, or unless otherwise provided in this paragraph of this clause or expressly set forth in this contract.
(2) The Recipient agrees that to the extent it receives or is given access to data necessary for the performance of this agreement which contain restrictive markings, the Recipient shall treat the data in accordance with such markings unless otherwise specifically authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer.
(e) Unauthorized Marking of Data
(1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement concerning inspection or acceptance, if any data delivered under this agreement are marked with the notices specified in paragraph (g)(2) or (g)(3) of this clause and use of such is not authorized by this clause, or if such data bears any other restrictive or limiting markings not authorized by this agreement, the Contracting Officer may at any time either return the data to the Recipient or cancel or ignore the markings. However, the following procedures shall apply prior to canceling or ignoring the markings.
(i) The Contracting Officer shall make written inquiry to the Recipient affording the Recipient 30 days from receipt of the inquiry to provide written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings;
(ii) If the Recipient fails to respond or fails to provide written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings within the 30-day period (or a longer time not exceeding 90 days approved in writing by the Contracting Officer for good cause shown), the Government shall have the right to cancel or ignore the markings at any time after said period and the data will no longer be made subject to any disclosure prohibitions.
(iii) If the Recipient provides written justification to substantiate the propriety of the markings within the period set in subdivision (e)(1)(i) of this clause, the Contracting Officer shall consider such written justification and determine whether or not the markings are to be cancelled or ignored. If the Contracting Officer determines that the markings are authorized, the Recipient shall be so notified in writing. If the Contracting Officer determines, with concurrence of the head of the contracting activity, that the markings are not authorized, the Contracting Officer shall furnish the Recipient a written determination, which determination shall become the final agency decision regarding the appropriateness of the markings unless the Recipient files suit in a court of competent jurisdiction within 90 days of receipt of the Contracting Officer's decision. The Government shall continue to abide by the markings under this subdivision (e)(1)(iii) until final resolution of the matter either by the Contracting Officer's determination become final (in which instance the Government shall thereafter have the right to cancel or ignore the markings at any time and the data will no longer be made subject to any disclosure prohibitions), or by final disposition of the matter by court decision if suit is filed.
(2) The time limits in the procedures set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this clause may be modified in accordance with agency regulations implementing the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) if necessary to respond to a request thereunder.
(f) Omitted or Incorrect Markings
(1) Data delivered to the Government without either the limited rights or restricted rights notice as authorized by paragraph (
g
) of this clause, or the copyright notice required by paragraph (c) of this clause, shall be deemed to have been furnished with unlimited rights, and the Government assumes no liability for the disclosure, use, or reproduction of such data. However, to the extent the data has not been disclosed without restriction outside the Government, the Recipient may request, within 6 months (or a longer time approved by the Contracting Officer for good cause shown) after delivery of such data, permission to have notices placed on qualifying data at the Recipient's expense, and the Contracting Officer may agree to do so if the Recipient—
(i) Identifies the data to which the omitted notice is to be applied;
(ii) Demonstrates that the omission of the notice was inadvertent;
(iii) Establishes that the use of the proposed notice is authorized; and
(iv) Acknowledges that the Government has no liability with respect to the disclosure, use, or reproduction of any such data made prior to the addition of the notice or resulting from the omission of the notice.
(2) The Contracting Officer may also:
(i) Permit correction at the Recipient's expense of incorrect notices if the Recipient identifies the data on which correction of the notice is to be made, and demonstrates that the correct notice is authorized; or
(ii) Correct any incorrect notices.
(g) Rights to Protected Data
(1) The Recipient may, with the concurrence of DOE, claim and mark as protected data, any data first produced in the performance of this award that would have been treated as a trade secret if developed at private expense. Any such claimed “protected data” will be clearly marked with the following Protected Rights Notice, and will be treated in accordance with such Notice, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this clause.

# Protected Rights Notice
These protected data were produced under agreement no. ______ with the U.S. Department of Energy and may not be published, disseminated, or disclosed to others outside the Government until (Note:) The period of protection of such data is fully negotiable, but cannot exceed the applicable statutorily authorized maximum), unless express written authorization is obtained from the recipient. Upon expiration of the period of protection set forth in this Notice, the Government shall have unlimited rights in this data. This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this data, in whole or in part.

# (End of notice)
(2) Any such marked Protected Data may be disclosed under obligations of confidentiality for the following purposes:
(a) For evaluation purposes under the restriction that the “Protected Data” be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed; or
(b) To subcontractors or other team members performing work under the Government's (insert name of program or other applicable activity) program of which this award is a part, for information or use in connection with the work performed under their activity, and under the restriction that the Protected Data be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed.
(3) The obligations of confidentiality and restrictions on publication and dissemination shall end for any Protected Data.
(a) At the end of the protected period;
(b) If the data becomes publicly known or available from other sources without a breach of the obligation of confidentiality with respect to the Protected Data;
(c) If the same data is independently developed by someone who did not have access to the Protected Data and such data is made available without obligations of confidentiality; or
(d) If the Recipient disseminates or authorizes another to disseminate such data without obligations of confidentiality.
(4) However, the Recipient agrees that the following types of data are not considered to be protected and shall be provided to the Government when required by this award without any claim that the data are Protected Data. The parties agree that notwithstanding the following lists of types of data, nothing precludes the Government from seeking delivery of additional data in accordance with this award, or from making publicly available additional non-protected data, nor does the following list constitute any admission by the Government that technical data not on the list is Protected Data. (Note: It is expected that this paragraph will specify certain types of mutually agreed upon data that will be available to the public and will not be asserted by the recipient/contractor as limited rights or protected data).
(5) The Government's sole obligation with respect to any protected data shall be as set forth in this paragraph (g).
(h) Protection of Limited Rights Data
When data other than that listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this clause are specified to be delivered under this agreement and such data qualify as either limited rights data or restricted computer software, the Recipient, if the Recipient desires to continue protection of such data, shall withhold such data and not furnish them to the Government under this agreement. As a condition to this withholding the Recipient shall identify the data being withheld and furnish form, fit, and function data in lieu thereof.
(i) Subaward/Contract
The Recipient has the responsibility to obtain from its subrecipients/contractors all data and rights therein necessary to fulfill the Recipient's obligations to the Government under this agreement. If a subrecipient/contractor refuses to accept terms affording the Government such rights, the Recipient shall promptly bring such refusal to the attention of the Contracting Officer and not proceed with subaward/contract award without further authorization.
(j) Additional Data Requirements
In addition to the data specified elsewhere in this agreement to be delivered, the Contracting Officer may, at any time during agreement performance or within a period of 3 years after acceptance of all items to be delivered under this agreement, order any data first produced or specifically used in the performance of this agreement. This clause is applicable to all data ordered under this subparagraph. Nothing contained in this subparagraph shall require the Recipient to deliver any data the withholding of which is authorized by this clause or data which are specifically identified in this agreement as not subject to this clause. When data are to be delivered under this subparagraph, the Recipient will be compensated for converting the data into the prescribed form, for reproduction, and for delivery.
(k) The Recipient agrees, except as may be otherwise specified in this agreement for
specific data items listed as not subject to this paragraph, that the Contracting Officer or an authorized representative may, up to three years after acceptance of all items to be delivered under this contract, inspect at the Recipient's facility any data withheld pursuant to paragraph (h) of this clause, for purposes of verifying the Recipient's assertion pertaining to the limited rights or restricted rights status of the data or for evaluating work performance. Where the Recipient whose data are to be inspected demonstrates to the Contracting Officer that there would be a possible conflict of interest if the inspection were made by a particular representative, the Contracting Officer shall designate an alternate inspector.
As prescribed in 2 CFR 910.362(e)(2), the following Alternate I and/or II may be inserted in the clause in the award instrument.

# Alternate I
(h)(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (h)(1) of this clause, the agreement may identify and specify the delivery of limited rights data, or the Contracting Officer may require by written request the delivery of limited rights data that has been withheld or would otherwise be withholdable. If delivery of such data is so required, the Recipient may affix the following “Limited Rights Notice” to the data and the Government will thereafter treat the data, in accordance with such Notice:

# Limited Rights Notice
(a) These data are submitted with limited rights under Government agreement No.______ (and subaward/contract No. ______, if appropriate). These data may be reproduced and used by the Government with the express limitation that they will not, without written permission of the Recipient, be used for purposes of manufacture nor disclosed outside the Government; except that the Government may disclose these data outside the Government for the following purposes, if any, provided that the Government makes such disclosure subject to prohibition against further use and disclosure:
(1) Use (except for manufacture) by Federal support services contractors within the scope of their contracts;
(2) This “limited rights data” may be disclosed for evaluation purposes under the restriction that the “limited rights data” be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed;
(3) This “limited rights data” may be disclosed to other contractors participating in the Government's program of which this Recipient is a part for information or use (except for manufacture) in connection with the work performed under their awards and under the restriction that the “limited rights data” be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed;
(4) This “limited rights data” may be used by the Government or others on its behalf for emergency repair or overhaul work under the restriction that the “limited rights data” be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed; and
(5) Release to a foreign government, or instrumentality thereof, as the interests of the United States Government may require, for information or evaluation, or for emergency repair or overhaul work by such government. This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this data in whole or in part.
(b) This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of these data, in whole or in part.

# (End of notice)

# Alternate II
(h)(3)(i) Notwithstanding paragraph (h)(1) of this clause, the agreement may identify and specify the delivery of restricted computer software, or the Contracting Officer may require by written request the delivery of restricted computer software that has been withheld or would otherwise be withholdable. If delivery of such computer software is so required, the Recipient may affix the following “Restricted Rights Notice” to the computer software and the Government will thereafter treat the computer software, subject to paragraphs (d) and (e) of this clause, in accordance with the Notice:

# Restricted Rights Notice
(a) This computer software is submitted with restricted rights under Government Agreement No.______ (and subaward/contract ______, if appropriate). It may not be used, reproduced, or disclosed by the Government except as provided in paragraph (c) of this Notice or as otherwise expressly stated in the agreement.
(b) This computer software may be—
(1) Used or copied for use in or with the computer or computers for which it was acquired, including use at any Government installation to which such computer or computers may be transferred;
(2) Used or copies for use in a backup computer if any computer for which it was acquired is inoperative
(3) Reproduced for safekeeping (archives) or backup purposes;
(4) Modified, adapted, or combined with other computer software, provided that the modified, combined, or adapted portions of the derivative software are made subject to the same restricted rights;
(5) Disclosed to and reproduced for use by Federal support service Contractors in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this clause, provided the Government makes such disclosure or reproduction subject to these restricted rights; and
(6) Used or copies for use in or transferred to a replacement computer.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if this computer software is published copyrighted computer software, it is licensed to the Government, without disclosure prohibitions, with the minimum rights set forth in paragraph (b) of this clause.
(d) Any other rights or limitations regarding the use, duplication, or disclosure of this computer software are to be expressly stated in, or incorporated in, the agreement.
(e) This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this computer software, in whole or in part.

# (End of notice)
(ii) Where it is impractical to include the Restricted Rights Notice on restricted computer software, the following short-form Notice may be used in lieu thereof:

# Restricted Rights Notice
Use, reproduction, or disclosure is subject to restrictions set forth in Agreement No.______ (and subaward/contract_________, if appropriate) with______ (name of Recipient and subrecipient/contractor).

# (End of notice)
(iii) If restricted computer software is delivered with the copyright notice of 17 U.S.C. 401, it will be presumed to be published copyrighted computer software licensed to the Government without disclosure prohibitions, with the minimum rights set forth in paragraph (b) of this clause, unless the Recipient includes the following statement with such copyright notice: “Unpublished—rights reserved under the Copyright Laws of the United States.”

# (End of clause)
[79 FR 76024, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 87 FR 15320, Mar. 18, 2022]

# Subpart E—Cost Principles
§ 910.401
Application to M
O's.
In accordance with 48 CFR 970.3002-1 and 970.3101-00-70, a Federally Funded Research Center (FFRDC) which is also a designated DOE Management and Operating (M
O) contract must follow the cost accounting standards (CAS) contained in 48 CFR part 30 and must follow the appropriate Cost Principles contained in 48 CFR part 31.

# Subpart F—Audit Requirements for For-Profit Entities

# General
§ 910.500
Purpose.
This Part follows the same format as 2 CFR 200.500. We purposely did not renumber the paragraphs within this part so that auditors and recipients can compare this to the single audit requirements contained in 2 CFR 200.500.

# Audits
§ 910.501
Audit requirements.
(a)
Audit required.
A for-profit entity that expends $750,000 or more during the non-Federal entity's fiscal year in DOE awards must have a compliance audit conducted for that year in accordance with the provisions of this Part.
(b)
Compliance audit.
(1) If a for-profit entity has one or more DOE awards with expenditures of $750,000 or more during the for-profit entity's fiscal year, they must have a compliance audit for each of the awards with $750,000 or more in expenditures. A compliance audit should comply with the applicable provisions in § 910.514—Scope of Audit. The remaining awards do not require, individually or in the aggregate, a compliance audit.
(2) If a for-profit entity receives more than one award from DOE with a sum total of expenditures of $750,000 or more during the for-profit entity's fiscal year, but does not have any single award with expenditures of $750,000 or more; the entity must determine whether any or all of the awards have common compliance requirements (
i.e.,
are considered a cluster of awards) and determine the total expenditures of the awards with common compliance requirements. A compliance audit is required for the largest cluster of awards (if multiple clusters of awards exist) or the largest award not in a cluster of awards, whichever corresponding expenditure total is greater. A compliance audit should comply with the applicable provisions in § 910.514—Scope of Audit. The remaining awards do not require, individually or in the aggregate, a compliance audit;
(3) If a for-profit entity receives one or more awards from DOE with a sum total of expenditures less than $750,000, no compliance audit is required;
(4) If the for-profit entity is a sub-recipient, 2 CFR 200.501(h) requires that the pass-through entity establish appropriate monitoring and controls to ensure the sub-recipient complies with award requirements. These compliance audits must be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR 200.514 Scope of audit
(c)
Program-specific audit election.
Not applicable.
(d)
Exemption when Federal awards expended are less than $750,000.
A for-profit entity that expends less than $750,000 during the for-profit's fiscal year in DOE awards is exempt from DOE audit requirements for that year, except as noted in § 910.503 Relation to other audit requirements, but records must be available for review or audit by appropriate officials of the Federal agency, pass-through entity, and Government Accountability Office (GAO).
(e)
Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDC).
Management of an auditee that owns or operates a FFRDC may elect to treat the FFRDC as a separate entity for purposes of this part.
(f)
Subrecipients and Contractors.
An auditee may simultaneously be a recipient, a subrecipient, and a contractor. Federal awards expended as a recipient are subject to audit under this part. The payments received for goods or services provided as a contractor are not Federal awards. The provisions of 2 CFR 200.331, Subrecipient and contractor determinations should be considered in determining whether payments constitute a Federal award or a payment for goods or services provided as a contractor.
(g)
Compliance responsibility for contractors.
In most cases, the auditee's compliance responsibility for contractors is only to ensure that the procurement, receipt, and payment for goods and services comply with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of Federal awards. Federal award compliance requirements normally do not pass through to contractors. However, the auditee is responsible for ensuring compliance for procurement transactions which are structured such that the contractor is responsible for program compliance or the contractor's records must be reviewed to determine program compliance. Also, when these procurement transactions relate to a major program, the scope of the audit must include determining whether these transactions are in compliance with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of Federal awards.
(h)
For-profit subrecipient.
Since this part does not apply to for-profit subrecipients, the pass-through entity is responsible for establishing requirements, as necessary, to ensure compliance by for-profit subrecipients to DOE Federal award requirements. The agreement with the for-profit subrecipient should describe applicable compliance requirements and the for- profit subrecipient's compliance responsibility. Methods to ensure compliance for Federal awards made to for-profit subrecipients may include pre-award audits, monitoring during the agreement, and post-award audits. See also 2 CFR 200.332, Requirements for pass- through entities.
[79 FR 76024, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 57511, Sept. 24, 2015; 87 FR 15320, Mar. 18, 2022]
§ 910.502
Basis for determining DOE awards expended.
(a)
Determining Federal awards expended.
The determination of when a Federal award is expended must be based on when the activity related to the DOE award occurs. Generally, the activity pertains to events that require the non-Federal entity to comply with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of DOE awards, such as: Expenditure/expense transactions associated with awards including grants, cost-reimbursement contracts under the FAR, compacts with Indian Tribes, cooperative agreements, and direct appropriations; the disbursement of funds to subrecipients; the use of loan proceeds under loan and loan guarantee programs; the receipt of property; the receipt of surplus property; the receipt or use of program income; the distribution or use of food commodities; the disbursement of amounts entitling the for-profit entity
to an interest subsidy; and the period when insurance is in force.
(b)
Loan and loan guarantees (loans).
Loan and loan guarantees issued by the DOE Loan Program Office corresponding to Title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 16511-16516 (“Title XVII”) are exempt from these provisions.
(1) Not applicable.
(2) Not applicable.
(3) Not applicable.
(c) Not applicable.
(d)
Prior loan and loan guarantees (loans).
See paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)
Endowment funds.
The cumulative balance of DOE awards for endowment funds that are federally restricted are considered DOE awards expended in each audit period in which the funds are still restricted.
(f)
Free rent.
Free rent received by itself is not considered a DOE award expended under this Part. However, free rent received as part of a DOE award to carry out a DOE program must be included in determining DOE awards expended and subject to audit under this part.
(g)
Valuing non-cash assistance.
DOE non-cash assistance, such as free rent, food commodities, donated property, or donated surplus property, must be valued at fair market value at the time of receipt or the assessed value provided by DOE.
(h) Not applicable.
(i) Not applicable.
(j) Not applicable.
[87 FR 15320, Mar. 18, 2022]
§ 910.503
Relation to other audit requirements.
(a) An audit conducted in accordance with this Part must be in lieu of any financial audit of DOE awards which a for-profit entity is required to undergo under any other Federal statute or regulation. To the extent that such audit provides DOE with the information it requires to carry out its responsibilities under Federal statute or regulation, DOE must rely upon and use that information.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, DOE, Inspectors General, or GAO may conduct or arrange for additional audits which are necessary to carry out its responsibilities under Federal statute or regulation. The provisions of this Part do not authorize any for-profit entity to constrain, in any manner, DOE from carrying out or arranging for such additional audits, except that DOE must plan such audits to not be duplicative of other audits of DOE. Any additional audits must be planned and performed in such a way as to build upon work performed, including the audit documentation, sampling, and testing already performed, by other auditors.
(c) The provisions of this Part do not limit the authority of DOE to conduct, or arrange for the conduct of, audits and evaluations of DOE awards, nor limit the authority of any Federal agency Inspector General or other Federal official.
(d) DOE to pay for additional audits. If DOE conducts or arranges for additional audits it must, consistent with other applicable Federal statutes and regulations, arrange for funding the full cost of such additional audits.
(e) Not applicable.
§ 910.504
Frequency of audits.
Audits required by this Part must be performed annually.
(a) Not applicable.
(b) Not applicable.
§ 910.505
Sanctions.
In cases of continued inability or unwillingness to have an audit conducted in accordance with this part, DOE and pass-through entities must take appropriate action as provided in 2 CFR 200.339, Remedies for noncompliance.
[79 FR 76024, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 87 FR 15321, Mar. 18, 2022]
§ 910.506
Audit costs.
See 2 CFR 200.425 Audit services.
§ 910.507
Compliance audits.
(a)
Program-specific audit guide available.
In some cases, a program-specific audit guide will be available to provide specific guidance to the auditor with respect to internal controls, compliance requirements, suggested audit procedures, and audit reporting requirements. A listing of current program-specific audit guides can be found
on the OMB website in the compliance supplement, in part 8, appendix VI, Program-Specific Audit Guides, which includes a website where a copy of the guide can be obtained. When a current program-specific audit guide is available, the auditor must follow generally accepted government auditing standards (GAGAS) and the guide when performing a compliance audit.
(b)
Program-specific audit guide not available.
(1) When a program-specific audit guide is not available, the auditee and auditor must conduct the compliance audit in accordance with GAAS and GAGAS.
(2) If audited financial statements are available, for-profit recipients should submit audited financial statements to DOE as a part of the compliance audit. (If the recipient is a subsidiary for which separate financial statements are not available, the recipient may submit the financial statements of the consolidated group.)
(3) The auditor must:
(i) Not applicable;
(ii) Obtain an understanding of internal controls and perform tests of internal controls over the DOE program consistent with the requirements of § 910.514 Scope of audit;
(iii) Perform procedures to determine whether the auditee has complied with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of DOE awards that could have a direct and material effect on the DOE program consistent with the requirements of § 910.514 Scope of audit;
(iv) Follow up on prior audit findings, perform procedures to assess the reasonableness of the summary schedule of prior audit findings prepared by the auditee in accordance with the requirements of § 910.511 Audit findings follow-up, and report, as a current year audit finding, when the auditor concludes that the summary schedule of prior audit findings materially misrepresents the status of any prior audit finding; and
(v) Report any audit findings consistent with the requirements of § 910.516 Audit findings.
(4) The auditor's report(s) may be in the form of either combined or separate reports and may be organized differently from the manner presented in this section. The auditor's report(s) must state that the audit was conducted in accordance with this part and include the following:
(i) An opinion (or disclaimer of opinion) as to whether the financial statement(s) (if available) of the DOE program is presented fairly in all material respects in accordance with the stated accounting policies;
(ii) A report on internal control related to the DOE program, which must describe the scope of testing of internal control and the results of the tests;
(iii) A report on compliance which includes an opinion (or disclaimer of opinion) as to whether the auditee complied with laws, regulations, and the terms and conditions of DOE awards which could have a direct and material effect on the DOE program; and
(iv) A schedule of findings and questioned costs for the DOE program that includes a summary of the auditor's results relative to the DOE program in a format consistent with § 910.515 Audit reporting, paragraph (d)(1) and findings and questioned costs consistent with the requirements of § 910.515 Audit reporting, paragraph (d)(3).
(c)
Report submission for program-specific audits.
(1) The audit must be completed and the reporting required by paragraph (c)(2) or (3) of this section submitted within the earlier of 30 calendar days after receipt of the auditor's report(s), or nine months after the end of the audit period, unless a different period is specified in a program-specific audit guide. Unless restricted by Federal law or regulation, the auditee must make report copies available for public inspection. Auditees and auditors must ensure that their respective parts of the reporting package do not include protected personally identifiable information.
(2) When a program-specific audit guide is available, the compliance audits must be submitted (along with audited financial statements if audited financial statements are available), to the appropriate DOE Contracting Officer as well as to the DOE Office of the Chief Financial Officer.
(3) When a program-specific audit guide is not available, the reporting
package for a program-specific audit must consist of, a summary schedule of prior audit findings, and a corrective action plan as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and the auditor's report(s) described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. The compliance audit must be submitted (along with audited financial statements if audited financial statements are available), to the appropriate DOE Contracting Officer as well as to the DOE Office of the Chief Financial Officer.
(d)
Other sections of this part may apply.
Compliance audits are subject to:
(1) Section 910.500 Purpose through § 910.503 Relation to other audit requirements, paragraph (d);
(2) Section 910.504 Frequency of audits through § 910.506 Audit costs;
(3) Section 910.508 Auditee responsibilities and § 910.509 Auditor selection;
(4) Section 910.511 Audit findings follow-up;
(5) Section 910.512 Report submission, paragraphs (e) through (h);
(6) Section 910.513 Responsibilities;
(7) Section 910.516 Audit findings and § 910.517 Audit documentation;
(8) Section 910.521 Management decision; and
(9) Other referenced provisions of this part unless contrary to the provisions of this section, a program-specific audit guide, or program statutes and regulations.
[87 FR 15321, Mar. 18, 2022]

# Auditees
§ 910.508
Auditee responsibilities.
The auditee must:
(a) Procure or otherwise arrange for the audit required by this Part in accordance with § 910.509 Auditor selection, and ensure it is properly performed and submitted when due in accordance with § 910.512 Report submission.
(b) Submit appropriate financial statements (if available).
(c) Submit the schedule of expenditures of DOE awards in accordance with § 910.510 Financial statements.
(d) Promptly follow up and take corrective action on audit findings, including preparation of a summary schedule of prior audit findings and a corrective action plan in accordance with § 910.511 Audit findings follow- up, paragraph (b) and § 910.511 Audit findings follow-up, paragraph (c), respectively.
(e) Provide the auditor with access to personnel, accounts, books, records, supporting documentation, and other information as needed for the auditor to perform the audit required by this Part.
§ 910.509
Auditor selection.
(a)
Auditor procurement.
When procuring audit services, the objective is to obtain high-quality audits. In requesting proposals for audit services, the objectives and scope of the audit must be made clear and the for-profit entity must request a copy of the audit organization's peer review report which the auditor is required to provide under GAGAS. Factors to be considered in evaluating each proposal for audit services include the responsiveness to the request for proposal, relevant experience, availability of staff with professional qualifications and technical abilities, the results of peer and external quality control reviews, and price. Whenever possible, the auditee must make positive efforts to utilize small businesses, minority-owned firms, and women's business enterprises, in procuring audit services as stated in 2 CFR 200.321 Contracting with small and minority businesses, women's business enterprises, and labor surplus area firms, or the FAR (48 CFR part 42), as applicable.
(b)
Restriction on auditor preparing indirect cost proposals.
An auditor who prepares the indirect cost proposal or cost allocation plan may not also be selected to perform the audit required by this Part when the indirect costs recovered by the auditee during the prior year exceeded $1 million. This restriction applies to the base year used in the preparation of the indirect cost proposal or cost allocation plan and any subsequent years in which the resulting indirect cost agreement or cost allocation plan is used to recover costs.
(c)
Use of Federal auditors.
Federal auditors may perform all or part of the work required under this Part if they
comply fully with the requirements of this Part.
§ 910.510
Financial statements.
(a)
Financial statements.
If available, the auditee must submit financial statements that reflect its financial position, results of operations or changes in net assets, and, where appropriate, cash flows for the fiscal year audited. The financial statements must be for the same organizational unit and fiscal year that is chosen to meet the requirements of this Part. However, for-profit entity-wide financial statements may also include departments, agencies, and other organizational units that have separate audits in accordance with § 910.514 Scope of audit, paragraph (a) and prepare separate financial statements.
(b)
Schedule of expenditures of DOE awards.
The auditee must prepare a schedule of expenditures of DOE awards for the period covered by the auditee's fiscal year which must include the total DOE awards expended as determined in accordance with § 910.502 Basis for determining DOE awards expended. While not required, the auditee may choose to provide information requested by DOE and pass- through entities to make the schedule easier to use. For example, when a DOE program has multiple DOE award years, the auditee may list the amount of DOE awards expended for each DOE award year separately. At a minimum, the schedule must:
(1) List individual DOE programs. For a cluster of programs, provide the cluster name, list individual DOE programs within the cluster of programs. For R
D, total DOE awards expended must be shown by individual DOE award and major subdivision within DOE. For example, the National Institutes of Health is a major subdivision in the Department of Health and Human Services.
(2) Not applicable.
(3) Provide total DOE awards expended for each individual DOE program and the CFDA number For a cluster of programs also provide the total for the cluster.
(4) Not applicable.
(5) Not applicable.
(6) Include notes that describe that significant accounting policies used in preparing the schedule, and note whether or not the for-profit entity elected to use the 10% de minimis cost rate as covered in 2 CFR 200.414 Indirect (F
A) costs.
§ 910.511
Audit findings follow-up.
(a)
General.
The auditee is responsible for follow-up and corrective action on all audit findings. As part of this responsibility, the auditee must prepare a summary schedule of prior audit findings. The auditee must also prepare a corrective action plan for current year audit findings. The summary schedule of prior audit findings and the corrective action plan must include the reference numbers the auditor assigns to audit findings under § 910.516 Audit findings, paragraph (c). Since the summary schedule may include audit findings from multiple years, it must include the fiscal year in which the finding initially occurred. The corrective action plan and summary schedule of prior audit findings must include findings relating to the financial statements which are required to be reported in accordance with GAGAS.
(b)
Summary schedule of prior audit findings.
The summary schedule of prior audit findings must report the status of all audit findings included in the prior audit's schedule of findings and questioned costs. The summary schedule must also include audit findings reported in the prior audit's summary schedule of prior audit findings except audit findings listed as corrected in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or no longer valid or not warranting further action in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(1) When audit findings were fully corrected, the summary schedule need only list the audit findings and state that corrective action was taken.
(2) When audit findings were not corrected or were only partially corrected, the summary schedule must describe the reasons for the finding's recurrence and planned corrective action, and any partial corrective action taken. When corrective action taken is significantly different from corrective action previously reported in a corrective action
plan or in DOE's or pass-through entity's management decision, the summary schedule must provide an explanation.
(3) When the auditee believes the audit findings are no longer valid or do not warrant further action, the reasons for this position must be described in the summary schedule. A valid reason for considering an audit finding as not warranting further action is that all of the following have occurred:
(i) Two years have passed since the audit report in which the finding occurred was submitted to DOE;
(ii) DOE is not currently following up with the auditee on the audit finding; and
(iii) A management decision was not issued.
(c)
Corrective action plan.
At the completion of the audit, the auditee must prepare, in a document separate from the auditor's findings described in § 910.516 Audit findings, a corrective action plan to address each audit finding included in the current year auditor's reports. The corrective action plan must provide the name(s) of the contact person(s) responsible for corrective action, the corrective action planned, and the anticipated completion date. If the auditee does not agree with the audit findings or believes corrective action is not required, then the corrective action plan must include an explanation and specific reasons.
§ 910.512
Report submission.
(a)
General.
(1) The audit must be completed and the reporting package described in paragraph (c) of this section must be submitted within the earlier of 30 calendar days after receipt of the auditor's report(s), or nine months after the end of the audit period. If the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the reporting package is due the next business day.
(2) Unless restricted by Federal statutes or regulations, the auditee must make copies available for public inspection. Auditees and auditors must ensure that their respective parts of the reporting package do not include protected personally identifiable information.
(b)
Data collection.
See paragraph (b)(1) of this section:
(1) A senior level representative of the auditee (
e.g.,
director of finance, chief executive officer, or chief financial officer) must sign a statement to be included as part of the reporting package that says that the auditee complied with the requirements of this Part, the reporting package does not include protected personally identifiable information, and the information included in its entirety is accurate and complete.
(2) Not applicable.
(3) Not applicable.
(c)
Reporting package.
The reporting package must include the:
(1) Financial statements (if available) and schedule of expenditures of DOE awards discussed in § 910.510 Financial statements, paragraphs (a) and (b), respectively;
(2) Summary schedule of prior audit findings discussed in § 910.511 Audit findings follow-up, paragraph (b);
(3) Auditor's report(s) discussed in § 910.515 Audit reporting; and
(4) Corrective action plan discussed in § 910.511 Audit findings follow-up, paragraph (c).
(d)
Submission to DOE.
The auditee must electronically submit the compliance reporting package described in paragraph (c) of this section compliance audits must be submitted (along with audited financial statements if audited financial statements are available), to the appropriate DOE Contracting Officer as well as to the DOE Office of the Chief Financial Officer.
(e)
Requests for management letters issued by the auditor.
In response to requests by a Federal agency, auditees must submit a copy of any management letters issued by the auditor.
(f)
Report retention requirements.
Auditees must keep one copy of the reporting package described in paragraph (c) of this section on file for three years from the date of submission to DOE.
(g) Not applicable.
(h) Not applicable.

# Federal Agencies
§ 910.513
Responsibilities.
(a)(1) Not applicable.
(2) Not applicable.
(3) Not applicable.
(i) Not applicable.
(ii) Not applicable.
(iii) Not applicable.
(iv) Not applicable.
(v) Not applicable.
(vi) Not applicable.
(vii) Not applicable.
(viii) Not applicable.
(ix) Not applicable.
(b) Not applicable.
(1) Not applicable.
(2) Not applicable.
(c)
DOE responsibilities.
DOE must perform the following for the awards it makes (See also the requirements of 2 CFR 200.211 Information contained in a Federal award):
(1) Ensure that audits are completed and reports are received in a timely manner and in accordance with the requirements of this Part.
(2) Provide technical advice and counsel to auditees and auditors as requested.
(3) Follow-up on audit findings to ensure that the recipient takes appropriate and timely corrective action. As part of audit follow-up, the DOE must:
(i) Issue a management decision as prescribed in § 910.521 Management decision;
(ii) Monitor the recipient taking appropriate and timely corrective action;
(iii) Use cooperative audit resolution mechanisms (see 2 CFR 200.1, Cooperative audit resolution) to improve DOE program outcomes through better audit resolution, follow-up, and corrective action; and
(iv) Develop a baseline, metrics, and targets to track, over time, the effectiveness of the DOE's process to follow-up on audit findings and on the effectiveness of Compliance Audits in improving non-Federal entity accountability and their use by DOE in making award decisions.
(4) Not applicable.
(5) Not applicable.
(i) Not applicable.
(ii) Not applicable.
(6) Not applicable.
(7) Not applicable.
(i) Not applicable.
(ii) Not applicable.
(iii) Not applicable.
(iv) Not applicable.
(v) Not applicable.
(vi) Not applicable.
(vii) Not applicable.
(viii) Not applicable.
[79 FR 76024, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 87 FR 15321, Mar. 18, 2022]

# Auditors
§ 910.514
Scope of audit.
(a)
General.
The audit must be conducted in accordance with GAGAS. The audit must cover the entire operations of the auditee, or, at the option of the auditee, such audit must include a series of audits that cover departments, agencies, and other organizational units that expended or otherwise administered DOE awards during such audit period, provided that each such audit must encompass the schedule of expenditures of DOE awards for each such department, agency, and other organizational unit, which must be considered to be a for-profit entity. The financial statements (if available) and schedule of expenditures of DOE awards must be for the same audit period.
(b)
Financial statements.
If financial statements are available, the auditor must determine whether the schedule of expenditures of DOE awards is stated fairly in all material respects in relation to the auditee's financial statements as a whole.
(c)
Internal control.
(1) The compliance supplement provides guidance on internal controls over Federal programs based upon the guidance in Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government issued by the Comptroller General of the United States and the Internal Control—Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
(2) In addition to the requirements of GAGAS the auditor must perform procedures to obtain an understanding of internal control over DOE programs sufficient to plan the audit to support a low assessed level of control risk of noncompliance for major programs.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the auditor must:
(i) Plan the testing of internal control over compliance to support a low assessed level of control risk for the assertions relevant to the compliance requirements; and
(ii) Perform testing of internal control as planned in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.
(4) When internal control over some or all of the compliance requirements are likely to be ineffective in preventing or detecting noncompliance, the planning and performing of testing described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section are not required for those compliance requirements. However, the auditor must report a significant deficiency or material weakness in accordance with § 910.516 Audit findings, assess the related control risk at the maximum, and consider whether additional compliance tests are required because of ineffective internal control.
(d)
Compliance.
(1) In addition to the requirements of GAGAS, the auditor must determine whether the auditee has complied with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of Federal awards that may have a direct and material effect.
(2) The principal compliance requirements applicable to most Federal programs and the compliance requirements of the largest Federal programs are included in the compliance supplement.
(3) For the compliance requirements related to Federal programs contained in the compliance supplement, an audit of these compliance requirements will meet the requirements of this part. Where there have been changes to the compliance requirements and the changes are not reflected in the compliance supplement, the auditor must determine the current compliance requirements and modify the audit procedures accordingly. For those Federal programs not covered in the compliance supplement, the auditor should follow the compliance supplement's guidance for programs not included in the supplement.
(4) The compliance testing must include tests of transactions and such other auditing procedures necessary to provide the auditor sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support an opinion on compliance.
(e)
Audit follow-up.
The auditor must follow-up on prior audit findings, perform procedures to assess the reasonableness of the summary schedule of prior audit findings prepared by the auditee in accordance with § 910.511 Audit findings follow-up paragraph (b), and report, as a current year audit finding, when the auditor concludes that the summary schedule of prior audit findings materially misrepresents the status of any prior audit finding. The auditor must perform audit follow-up procedures.
(f) Not applicable.
[87 FR 15322, Mar. 18, 2022]
§ 910.515
Audit reporting.
The auditor's report(s) may be in the form of either combined or separate reports and may be organized differently from the manner presented in this section. The auditor's report(s) must state that the audit was conducted in accordance with this part and include the following:
(a) An opinion (or disclaimer of opinion) as to whether the financial statements (if available) are presented fairly in all material respects in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and an opinion (or disclaimer of opinion) as to whether the schedule of expenditures of DOE awards is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the financial statements (if available) as a whole.
(b) A report on internal control over financial reporting and compliance with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of the DOE award, noncompliance with which could have a material effect on the financial statements. This report must describe the scope of testing of internal control and compliance and the results of the tests, and, where applicable, it will refer to the separate schedule of findings and questioned costs described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c) A report on compliance and report and internal control over compliance. This report must describe the scope of testing of internal control over compliance, include an opinion or modified opinion as to whether the auditee complied with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of DOE awards which could have a direct and material effect and refer to the separate schedule of findings and questioned costs described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(d) A schedule of findings and questioned costs which must include the following three components:
(1) A summary of the auditor's results, which must include:
(i) The type of report the auditor issued (if applicable) on whether the financial statements (if available) audited were prepared in accordance with GAAP (
i.e.,
unmodified opinion, qualified opinion, adverse opinion, or disclaimer of opinion);
(ii) Where applicable, a statement about whether significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal control were disclosed by the audit of the financial statements (if available);
(iii) A statement (if applicable) as to whether the audit disclosed any noncompliance that is material to the financial statements (if available) of the auditee;
(iv) Where applicable, a statement about whether significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal control over major programs were disclosed by the audit;
(v) The type of report the auditor issued on compliance (
i.e.,
unmodified opinion, qualified opinion, adverse opinion, or disclaimer of opinion);
(vi) A statement as to whether the audit disclosed any audit findings that the auditor is required to report under § 910.516 Audit findings, paragraph (a);
(vii) Not applicable.
(viii) Not applicable.
(ix) Not applicable.
(2) Findings relating to the financial Statements (if available) which are required to be reported in accordance with GAGAS.
(3) Findings and questioned costs for DOE awards which must include audit findings as defined in § 910.516 Audit findings, paragraph (a).
(i) Audit findings (
e.g.,
internal control findings, compliance findings, questioned costs, or fraud) that relate to the same issue should be presented as a single audit finding.
(ii) Audit findings that relate to both the financial statements (if available) and DOE awards, as reported under paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section, respectively, should be reported in both sections of the schedule. However, the reporting in one section of the schedule may be in summary form with a reference to a detailed reporting in the other section of the schedule.
(e) Nothing in this part precludes combining of the audit reporting required by this section with the reporting required by § 910.512 Report submission, paragraph (b), when allowed by GAGAS.
[87 FR 15322, Mar. 18, 2022]
§ 910.516
Audit findings.
(a)
Audit findings reported.
The auditor must report the following as audit findings in a schedule of findings and questioned costs:
(1) Significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in internal control over major programs and significant instances of abuse relating to major programs. The auditor's determination of whether a deficiency in internal control is a significant deficiency or material weakness for the purpose of reporting an audit finding is in relation to a type of compliance requirement for a major program identified in the Compliance Supplement.
(2) Material noncompliance with the provisions of Federal statutes, regulations, or the terms and conditions of DOE awards related to a major program. The auditor's determination of whether a noncompliance with the provisions of Federal statutes, regulations, or the terms and conditions of DOE awards is material for the purpose of reporting an audit finding is in relation to a type of compliance requirement for a major program identified in the compliance supplement.
(3) Known questioned costs that are greater than $25,000 for a type of compliance requirement for a major program. Known questioned costs are those specifically identified by the auditor. In evaluating the effect of questioned costs on the opinion on compliance, the auditor considers the best estimate of total costs questioned (likely questioned costs), not just the questioned costs specifically identified (known questioned costs). The auditor must also report known questioned costs when likely questioned costs are greater than $25,000 for a type of compliance requirement for a major program. In reporting questioned costs, the auditor must include information
to provide proper perspective for judging the prevalence and consequences of the questioned costs.
(4) Known questioned costs that are greater than $25,000 for a DOE program. which is not audited as a major program. Except for audit follow-up, the auditor is not required under this Part to perform audit procedures for such a DOE program; therefore, the auditor will normally not find questioned costs for a program that is not audited as a major program. However, if the auditor does become aware of questioned costs for a DOE program that is not audited as a major program (
e.g.,
as part of audit follow-up or other audit procedures) and the known questioned costs are greater than $25,000, then the auditor must report this as an audit finding.
(5) Not applicable.
(6) Known or likely fraud affecting a DOE award, unless such fraud is otherwise reported as an audit finding in the schedule of findings and questioned costs for DOE awards. This paragraph does not require the auditor to report publicly information which could compromise investigative or legal proceedings or to make an additional reporting when the auditor confirms that the fraud was reported outside the auditor's reports under the direct reporting requirements of GAGAS.
(7) Instances where the results of audit follow-up procedures disclosed that the summary schedule of prior audit findings prepared by the auditee in accordance with § 910.511 Audit findings follow-up, paragraph (b) materially misrepresents the status of any prior audit finding.
(b)
Audit finding detail and clarity.
Audit findings must be presented in sufficient detail and clarity for the auditee to prepare a corrective action plan and take corrective action, and for DOE to arrive at a management decision. The following specific information must be included, as applicable, in audit findings:
(1) Federal program and specific Federal award identification including the CFDA title and number, and Federal award identification number and year. When information, such as the CFDA title and number or DOE award identification number, is not available, the auditor must provide the best information available to describe the Federal award.
(2) The criteria or specific requirement upon which the audit finding is based, including the Federal statutes, regulations, or the terms and conditions of the DOE awards. Criteria generally identify the required or desired state or expectation with respect to the program or operation. Criteria provide a context for evaluating evidence and understanding findings.
(3) The condition found, including facts that support the deficiency identified in the audit finding.
(4) A statement of cause that identifies the reason or explanation for the condition or the factors responsible for the difference between the situation that exists (condition) and the required or desired state (criteria), which may also serve as a basis for recommendations for corrective action.
(5) The possible asserted effect to provide sufficient information to the auditee and DOE to permit them to determine the cause and effect to facilitate prompt and proper corrective action. A statement of the effect or potential effect should provide a clear, logical link to establish the impact or potential impact of the difference between the condition and the criteria.
(6) Identification of questioned costs and how they were computed. Known questioned costs must be identified by applicable CFDA number(s) and applicable DOE award identification number(s).
(7) Information to provide proper perspective for judging the prevalence and consequences of the audit findings, such as whether the audit findings represent an isolated instance or a systemic problem. Where appropriate, instances identified must be related to the universe and the number of cases examined and be quantified in terms of dollar value. The auditor should report whether the sampling was a statistically valid sample.
(8) Identification of whether the audit finding was a repeat of a finding in the immediately prior audit and if so any applicable prior year audit finding numbers.
(9) Recommendations to prevent future occurrences of the deficiency identified in the audit finding.
(10) Views of responsible officials of the auditee.
(c)
Reference numbers.
Each audit finding in the schedule of findings and questioned costs must include a reference number in the format meeting the requirements of the data collection form submission required by § 910.512 Report submission, paragraph (b) to allow for easy referencing of the audit findings during follow-up.
§ 910.517
Audit documentation.
(a)
Retention of audit documentation.
The auditor must retain audit documentation and reports for a minimum of three years after the date of issuance of the auditor's report(s) to the auditee, unless the auditor is notified in writing by DOE or the cognizant agency for indirect costs to extend the retention period. When the auditor is aware that the Federal agency or auditee is contesting an audit finding, the auditor must contact the parties contesting the audit finding for guidance prior to destruction of the audit documentation and reports.
(b)
Access to audit documentation.
Audit documentation must be made available upon request to the cognizant agency for indirect cost, DOE, or GAO at the completion of the audit, as part of a quality review, to resolve audit findings, or to carry out oversight responsibilities consistent with the purposes of this Part. Access to audit documentation includes the right of Federal agencies to obtain copies of audit documentation, as is reasonable and necessary.
§ 910.518
[Reserved]
§ 910.519
Criteria for Federal program risk.
(a)
General.
The auditor's determination should be based on an overall evaluation of the risk of noncompliance occurring that could be material to the DOE program. The auditor must consider criteria, such as described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, to identify risk in Federal programs. Also, as part of the risk analysis, the auditor may wish to discuss a particular DOE program with auditee management and DOE.
(b)
Current and prior audit experience.
(1) Weaknesses in internal control over DOE programs would indicate higher risk. Consideration should be given to the control environment over DOE programs and such factors as the expectation of management's adherence to Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of DOE awards and the competence and experience of personnel who administer the DOE programs.
(i) A DOE program administered under multiple internal control structures may have higher risk. The auditor must consider whether weaknesses are isolated in a single operating unit (
e.g.,
one college campus) or pervasive throughout the entity.
(ii) When significant parts of a DOE program are passed through to subrecipients, a weak system for monitoring subrecipients would indicate higher risk.
(2) Prior audit findings would indicate higher risk, particularly when the situations identified in the audit findings could have a significant impact on a DOE program or have not been corrected.
(3) DOE programs not recently audited as major programs may be of higher risk than Federal programs recently audited as major programs without audit findings.
(c)
Oversight exercised by DOE.
(1) Oversight exercised by DOE could be used to assess risk. For example, recent monitoring or other reviews performed by an oversight entity that disclosed no significant problems would indicate lower risk, whereas monitoring that disclosed significant problems would indicate higher risk.
(2) Federal agencies, with the concurrence of OMB, may identify Federal programs that are higher risk. OMB will provide this identification in the compliance supplement.
(d)
Inherent risk of the Federal program.
(1) The nature of a Federal program may indicate risk. Consideration should be given to the complexity of the program and the extent to which the Federal program contracts for goods and services. For example, Federal programs that disburse funds
through third party contracts or have eligibility criteria may be of higher risk. Federal programs primarily involving staff payroll costs may have high risk for noncompliance with requirements of 2 CFR 200.430 Compensation—personal services, but otherwise be at low risk.
(2) The phase of a Federal program in its life cycle at the Federal agency may indicate risk. For example, a new Federal program with new or interim regulations may have higher risk than an established program with time-tested regulations. Also, significant changes in Federal programs, statutes, regulations, or the terms and conditions of Federal awards may increase risk.
(3) The phase of a Federal program in its life cycle at the auditee may indicate risk. For example, during the first and last years that an auditee participates in a Federal program, the risk may be higher due to start-up or closeout of program activities and staff.
(4) Programs with larger Federal awards expended would be of higher risk than programs with substantially smaller Federal awards expended.
[87 FR 15323, Mar. 18, 2022]
§ 910.520
Criteria for a low-risk auditee.
An auditee that meets all of the following conditions for each of the preceding two audit periods may qualify as a low-risk auditee and be eligible for reduced audit coverage.
(a) Compliance audits were performed on an annual basis in accordance with the provisions of this Subpart, including submitting the data collection form to DOE within the timeframe specified in § 910.512 Report submission. A for-profit entity that has biennial audits does not qualify as a low-risk auditee.
(b) The auditor's opinion on whether the financial statements (if available) were prepared in accordance with GAAP, or a basis of accounting required by state law, and the auditor's in relation to opinion on the schedule of expenditures of DOE awards were unmodified.
(c) There were no deficiencies in internal control which were identified as material weaknesses under the requirements of GAGAS.
(d) The auditor did not report a substantial doubt about the auditee's ability to continue as a going concern.
(e) None of the DOE programs had audit findings from any of the following in either of the preceding two audit periods:
(1) Internal control deficiencies that were identified as material weaknesses in the auditor's report on internal control as required under § 910.515 Audit reporting, paragraph (c);
(2) Not applicable.
(3) Not applicable.
[87 FR 15323, Mar. 18, 2022]

# Management Decisions
§ 910.521
Management decision.
(a)
General.
The management decision must clearly state whether or not the audit finding is sustained, the reasons for the decision, and the expected auditee action to repay disallowed costs, make financial adjustments, or take other action. If the auditee has not completed corrective action, a timetable for follow-up should be given. Prior to issuing the management decision, the Federal agency may request additional information or documentation from the auditee, including a request for auditor assurance related to the documentation, as a way of mitigating disallowed costs. The management decision should describe any appeal process available to the auditee. While not required, DOE agency may also issue a management decision on findings relating to the financial statements (if they were available) which are required to be reported in accordance with GAGAS.
(b) As provided in § 910.513 Responsibilities, paragraph (c)(3), DOE is responsible for issuing a management decision for findings that relate to DOE awards it makes to for-profit entities.
(c) Not applicable.
(d)
Time requirements.
DOE must issue a management decision within six months of acceptance of the audit report. The auditee must initiate and proceed with corrective action as rapidly as possible and corrective action should begin no later than upon receipt of the audit report.
(e)
Reference numbers.
Management decisions must include the reference numbers the auditor assigned to each audit finding in accordance with § 910.516 Audit findings paragraph (c).
PARTS 911-999 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. X (1-1-25 Edition)
Department of Treasury

# CHAPTER X—DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
Part
Page
1000
Uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards
367
1001-1099
[Reserved]
Pt. 1000

# PART 1000—UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
Sec.
1000.10
Applicable regulations.
1000.306
Cost sharing or matching.
1000.337
Access to records.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 301; 2 CFR part 200.

# Source:
79 FR 76047, Dec. 19, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1000.10
Applicable regulations.
Except for the deviations set forth elsewhere in this Part, the Department of the Treasury adopts the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, set forth at 2 CFR part 200.
§ 1000.306
Cost sharing or matching.
Notwithstanding 2 CFR 200.306(e), Low Income Taxpayer Clinic grantees may use the rates found in 26 U.S.C. 7430 so long as:
(a) The grantee is funded to provide controversy representation;
(b) The services are provided by a qualified representative, which includes any individual, whether or not an attorney, who is authorized to represent taxpayers before the Internal Revenue Service or an applicable court;
(c) The qualified representative is not a student; and
(d) The qualified representative is acting in a representative capacity and is advocating for a taxpayer.
§ 1000.337
Access to records.
The right of access under 2 CFR 200.337 shall not extend to client information held by attorneys or federally authorized tax practitioners under the Low Income Taxpayer Clinic program.
[86 FR 29483, June 2, 2021]
PARTS 1001-1099 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. XI (1-1-25 Edition)
Department of Defense

# CHAPTER XI—DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL MATTERS AND DEFINITIONS
Part
Page
1100-1103
[Reserved]
1104
Implementation of governmentwide guidance for grants and cooperative agreements
371
1105-1107
[Reserved]
1108
Definitions of terms used in subchapters A through F of this chapter
372
1109
[Reserved]
SUBCHAPTER B [RESERVED]
1110-1119
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER C—AWARD FORMAT AND NATIONAL POLICY TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR ALL GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS
1120
Award format for DOD grants and cooperative agreements
386
1121
[Reserved]
1122
National policy requirements: General award terms and conditions
394
1123-1124
[Reserved]
1125
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension
400

# SUBCHAPTER D—ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COST-TYPE GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS TO NONPROFIT AND GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES
1126
Subchapter D overview
403
1128
Recipient financial and program management: General award terms and conditions
405
1130
Property administration: General award terms and conditions
427
1132
Recipient procurement procedures: General award terms and conditions
440
1134
Financial, programmatic, and property reporting: General award terms and conditions
446
1136
Other administrative requirements: General award terms and conditions
459
1138
Requirements related to subawards: General award terms and conditions
471
1140
[Reserved]
SUBCHAPTER E [RESERVED]
1141-1155
[Reserved]
SUBCHAPTER F [RESERVED]
1156-1170
[Reserved]
SUBCHAPTER G [RESERVED]
1171—1199
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL MATTERS AND DEFINITIONS

# Source:
85 FR 51160, Aug. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
PARTS 1100-1103 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1104

# PART 1104—IMPLEMENTATION OF GOVERNMENTWIDE GUIDANCE FOR GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS
Sec.
1104.1
Purpose of this part.
1104.100
Award format for DoD Components' grants and cooperative agreements.
1104.105
Regulations governing DoD Components' general terms and conditions.
1104.110
Regulations governing DoD Components' award-specific terms and conditions.
1104.115
Regulations governing DoD Components' internal procedures.
1104.120
Definitions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 10 U.S.C. 113.

# Source:
85 FR 51160, Aug. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1104.1
Purpose of this part.
This part provides an update to the DoD interim implementation of Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in 2 CFR part 200. It supersedes the initial interim implementation of that guidance that DoD adopted in 2 CFR part 1103 on December 19, 2014.
§ 1104.100
Award format for DoD Components' grants and cooperative agreements.
DoD Components must conform the format of new grants and cooperative agreements to the standard award format specified in part 1120 of the DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations (DoDGARS) (2 CFR part 1120). The standard format provides locations within the award for:
(a) General terms and conditions, including the administrative and national policy requirements discussed in § 1104.105(a) and (b), respectively.
(b) Any award-specific terms and conditions discussed in § 1104.110.
§ 1104.105
Regulations governing DoD Components' general terms and conditions.
(a)
Administrative requirements.
On an interim basis pending completion of the update of the DoDGARs to implement OMB guidance published in 2 CFR part 200, the following regulatory provisions govern the administrative requirements to be included in general terms and conditions of DoD Components' new grants and cooperative agreements:
(1) The provisions of parts 1126 through 1138 of the DoDGARs (2 CFR parts 1126 through 1138, which comprise subchapter D of this chapter) govern the administrative requirements to be included in the general terms and conditions of DoD Components' new grants and cooperative agreements awarded to institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, States, local governments, and Indian tribes.
(2) Part 34 of the DoDGARs (32 CFR part 34) governs the administrative requirements to be included in general terms and conditions of DoD Components' grants and cooperative agreements awarded to for-profit entities.
(b)
National policy requirements.
Part 1122 of the DoDGARs (2 CFR part 1122) governs the national policy requirements to be included in DoD Components' new grants and cooperative agreements awarded to all types of entities.
§ 1104.110
Regulations governing DoD Components' award-specific terms and conditions.
On an interim basis pending completion of the update of the DoDGARs to implement OMB guidance published in 2 CFR part 200:
(a) The guidance in 2 CFR part 200 governs administrative requirements to be included in any award-specific terms and conditions used to supplement the general terms and conditions of a new grant or cooperative agreement awarded to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe.
(b) Part 34 of the DoDGARs (32 CFR part 34) governs the administrative requirements to be included in any award-specific terms and conditions of DoD Components' grants and cooperative agreements awarded to for-profit entities.
§ 1104.115
Regulations governing DoD Components' internal procedures.
On an interim basis pending completion of the update of the DoDGARs to implement OMB guidance published in 2 CFR part 200, DoD Components' internal pre-award, time-of-award, and post-award procedures will continue to comply with requirements in parts 21 and 22 of the DoDGARs (32 CFR parts 21 and 22) and other applicable Defense Grant and Agreement Regulatory System (DGARS) policies.
§ 1104.120
Definitions.
(a)
DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations or DoDGARs
means the regulations in chapter I, subchapter C of title 32, Code of Federal Regulations, and chapter XI of title 2, Code of Federal Regulations.
(b)
Other terms.
See part 1108 of the DoDGARs for definitions of other terms used in this part.
PARTS 1105-1107 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1108

# PART 1108—DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED IN SUBCHAPTERS A THROUGH F OF THIS CHAPTER

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1108.1
Purpose of this part.
1108.2
Precedence of definitions of terms in national policy requirements.
1108.3
Definitions of terms used in the Governmentwide cost principles or single audit requirements.
1108.4
Definitions of terms that vary depending on context.

# Subpart B—Definitions
1108.10
Acquire.
1108.15
Acquisition.
1108.20
Acquisition cost.
1108.25
Administrative offset.
1108.30
Advance payment.
1108.35
Advanced research.
1108.40
Agreements officer.
1108.45
Applied research.
1108.50
Approved budget.
1108.55
Assistance.
1108.60
Award.
1108.65
Award administration office.
1108.70
Basic research.
1108.75
Capital asset.
1108.80
Claim.
1108.85
Cognizant agency for indirect costs.
1108.90
Contract.
1108.95
Contracting activity.
1108.100
Contracting officer.
1108.105
Contractor.
1108.110
Cooperative agreement.
1108.115
Co-principal investigator.
1108.120
Cost allocation plan.
1108.125
Cost sharing or matching.
1108.128
Cost-type award.
1108.130
Cost-type contract.
1108.135
Cost-type subaward.
1108.140
Debarment.
1108.145
Debt.
1108.150
Delinquent debt.
1108.155
Development.
1108.160
Direct costs.
1108.165
DoD Components.
1108.170
Equipment.
1108.175
Exempt property.
1108.180
Expenditures.
1108.185
Federal interest.
1108.190
Federal share.
1108.195
Fixed-amount award.
1108.200
Fixed-amount subaward.
1108.205
Foreign organization.
1108.210
Foreign public entity.
1108.215
Grant.
1108.220
Grants officer.
1108.225
Indian tribe.
1108.230
Indirect costs (also known as “Facilities and Administrative,” or F
A, costs).
1108.235
Institution of higher education.
1108.240
Intangible property.
1108.245
Local government.
1108.250
Management decision.
1108.255
Nonprocurement instrument.
1108.260
Nonprofit organization.
1108.265
Obligation.
1108.270
Office of Management and Budget.
1108.275
Outlays.
1108.280
Participant support costs.
1108.285
Period of performance.
1108.290
Personal property.
1108.295
Principal investigator.
1108.298
Prior approval.
1108.300
Procurement contract.
1108.305
Procurement transaction.
1108.310
Program income.
1108.315
Project costs.
1108.320
Property.
1108.325
Real property.
1108.330
Recipient.
1108.335
Research.
1108.340
Simplified acquisition threshold.
1108.345
Small award.
1108.350
State.
1108.355
Subaward.
1108.360
Subrecipient.
1108.365
Supplies.
1108.370
Suspension.
1108.375
Technology investment agreement.
1108.380
Termination.
1108.385
Third-party in-kind contribution.
1108.390
Total value.
1108.395
Unique entity identifier.
1108.400
Unobligated balance.
1108.405
Voluntary (committed or uncommitted) cost sharing.
1108.410
Working capital advance.
Appendix A to Part 1108—Background on Assistance, Acquisition, and Terms for Types of Legal Instruments

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 10 U.S.C. 113.

# Source:
85 FR 51230, Aug. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1108.1
Purpose of this part.
(a) This part provides:
(1) Definitions of terms used in subchapters A through F of this chapter; and
(2) Background information as context for understanding terms related to assistance and acquisition purposes, legal instruments that DoD Components make at the prime tier, and lower-tier transactions into which recipients and subrecipients enter when carrying out programs at lower tiers under DoD awards.
(b) This part is, for DoD, the regulatory implementation of OMB guidance in subpart A of 2 CFR part 200.
§ 1108.2
Precedence of definitions of terms in national policy requirements.
(a)
General.
Some portions of the DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations (DoDGARs) may use a term in relation to compliance with a national policy requirement in a statute, Executive order, or other source that defines the term differently than it is defined in subpart B of this part. For purposes of that particular national policy requirement, the definition of a term provided by the source of the requirement and any regulation specifically implementing it takes precedence over the definition in subpart B of this part. Using the definition of a term that takes precedence for each national policy requirement is therefore important when determining the applicability and effect of that requirement.
(b)
Examples.
(1) Current portions of the DoDGARs that specifically implement national policy requirements, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, are:
(i) A Governmentwide regulation currently codified by DoD at 32 CFR part 26, which implements the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 as it applies to grants (41 U.S.C. chapter 81, as amended);
(ii) A Government regulation currently codified by DoD at 32 CFR part 28, which implements restrictions on lobbying in 31 U.S.C. 1352;
(iii) A DoD regulation at part 1125 of this chapter, which implements Governmentwide guidance on nonprocurement debarment and suspension (2 CFR part 180) that has bases both in statute (section 2455 of Public Law 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327) and in Executive orders 12549 and 12689; and
(iv) Part 1122 of this chapter, which provides standard wording of terms and conditions related to a number of national policy requirements.
(2) To illustrate that a term may be defined differently in conjunction with specific national policy requirements than it is in this part, the term “State” is defined differently in the drug-free workplace requirements at 32 CFR part 26, the lobbying restrictions at 32 CFR part 28, and Subpart B of this part.
§ 1108.3
Definitions of terms used in the Governmentwide cost principles or single audit requirements.
(a) Some DoDGARs provisions state that DoD Components or recipients must comply with single audit or cost principles requirements in a Governmentwide issuance that contains defined terms and include the requirements by reference to the issuance without restating them.
(b) For any term in one of those issuances, this part includes the definition of the term only if the DoDGARs also use that term directly.
(c) If the DoDGARs only use the term indirectly,
i.e.,
through the DoDGARs' reference to the issuance, then this part will not include a definition and a user of the DoDGARs should consult definitions in the pertinent Governmentwide source, as follows:
(1) The Single Audit Act requirements for audits of recipients and subrecipients that are in subpart F of OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 200;
(2) The Governmentwide cost principles for institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, States, local governments, and Indian tribes that are contained in subpart E of OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 200; and
(3) The cost principles for for-profit entities at Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) at 48 CFR part 31, as supplemented by provisions of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement at subpart 231.2 of 48 CFR part 231.
§ 1108.4
Definitions of terms that vary depending on context.
DoDGARs definitions of some terms related to types of legal instruments (
e.g.,
“contract”) and purposes for which they are used (
e.g.,
“procurement” or “acquisition”) may vary, depending on the context. Appendix A to this part provides additional information about those terms and their definitions.

# Subpart B—Definitions
§ 1108.10
Acquire.
Acquire
means to:
(a) When the term is used in connection with a DoD Component action at the prime tier, obtain property or services by purchase, lease, or barter for the direct benefit or use of the United States Government.
(b) When the term is used in connection with a recipient action or a subrecipient action at a tier under a DoD Component's award:
(1) Purchase services;
(2) Obtain property under the award by:
(i) Purchase;
(ii) Construction;
(iii) Fabrication;
(iv) Development;
(v) The recipient's or subrecipient's donation of the property to the project or program under the award to meet a cost-sharing or matching requirement (
i.e.,
including within the entity's share of the award's project costs the value of the remaining life of the property or its fair market value, rather than charging depreciation); or
(vi) Otherwise.
§ 1108.15
Acquisition.
Acquisition
means the process of acquiring as described in:
(a) Paragraph (a) of § 1108.10 when used in connection with DoD Component actions at the prime tier.
(b) Paragraph (b) of § 1108.10 when used in connection with recipient or subrecipient actions at a lower tier under a DoD Component's award.
§ 1108.20
Acquisition cost.
Acquisition cost
means the cost of an asset to a recipient or subrecipient, including the cost to ready the asset for its intended use.
(a) For example, when used in conjunction with:
(1) The purchase of equipment, the term means the net invoice price of the equipment, including the cost of any modifications, attachments, accessories, or auxiliary apparatus necessary to make it usable for the purpose for which it is acquired.
(2) Equipment that a recipient or subrecipient constructs or fabricates—or software that it develops—under an award, the term includes, when capitalized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP):
(i) The construction and fabrication costs of that equipment; and
(ii) The development costs of that software.
(b) Ancillary charges, such as taxes, duty, protective in-transit insurance, freight, and installation may be included in, or excluded from, the acquisition cost in accordance with the recipient's or subrecipient's regular accounting practices.
§ 1108.25
Administrative offset.
Administrative offset
means an action whereby money payable by the United States Government to, or held by the Government for, a recipient is withheld to satisfy a delinquent debt.
§ 1108.30
Advance payment.
Advance payment
means a payment that DoD or a recipient or subrecipient makes by any appropriate payment mechanism, including a predetermined
payment schedule, before the recipient or subrecipient disburses the funds for project or program purposes.
§ 1108.35
Advanced research.
Advanced research
means advanced technology development that creates new technology or demonstrates the viability of applying existing technology to new products and processes in a general way. Advanced research is most closely analogous to precompetitive technology development in the commercial sector (
i.e.,
early phases of research and development on which commercial competitors are willing to collaborate, because the work is not so coupled to specific products and processes that the results of the work must be proprietary). It does not include development of military systems and hardware where specific requirements have been defined. It is typically funded in Advanced Technology Development (Budget Activity 3) programs within DoD's Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT
E) appropriations.
§ 1108.40
Agreements officer.
Agreements officer
means a DoD official with the authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate technology investment agreements.
§ 1108.45
Applied research.
Applied research
means efforts that attempt to determine and exploit the potential of scientific discoveries or improvements in technology, such as new materials, devices, methods and processes. It typically is funded in Applied Research (Budget Activity 2) programs within DoD's Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT
E) appropriations. Applied research often follows basic research but may not be fully distinguishable from the related basic research. The term does not include efforts whose principal aim is the design, development, or testing of specific products, systems or processes to be considered for sale or acquisition, efforts that are within the definition of “development.”
§ 1108.50
Approved budget.
Approved budget
means, in conjunction with a DoD Component award to a recipient, the most recent version of the budget the recipient submitted, and the DoD Component approved (either at the time of the initial award or subsequently), to summarize planned expenditures for the project or program under the award. It includes:
(a) All Federal funding made available to the recipient under the award to use for project or program purposes.
(b) Any cost sharing or matching that the recipient is required to provide under the award.
(c) Any options that have been exercised but not any options that have not yet been exercised.
§ 1108.55
Assistance.
Assistance
means the transfer of a thing of value to a recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States (see 31 U.S.C. 6101(3)). Grants, cooperative agreements, and technology investment agreements are examples of legal instruments that DoD Components use to provide assistance.
§ 1108.60
Award.
Award
means a grant, cooperative agreement, technology investment agreement, or other nonprocurement instrument subject to one or more parts of the DoDGARs. Within each part of the regulations, the term includes only the types of instruments subject to that part.
§ 1108.65
Award administration office.
Award administration office
means a DoD Component office that performs post-award functions related to the administration of grants, cooperative agreements, technology investment agreements, or other nonprocurement instruments subject to one or more parts of the DoDGARs.
§ 1108.70
Basic research.
Basic research
means efforts directed toward increasing knowledge and understanding in science and engineering, rather than the practical application of that knowledge and understanding. It typically is funded within Basic Research (Budget Activity 1) programs within DoD's Research, Development,
Test and Evaluation (RDT
E) appropriations. For the purposes of the DoDGARs, basic research includes:
(a) Research-related, science and engineering education and training, including graduate fellowships and research traineeships; and
(b) Research instrumentation and other activities designed to enhance the infrastructure for science and engineering research.
§ 1108.75
Capital asset.
Capital asset
means a tangible or intangible asset used in operations having a useful life of more than one year which is capitalized in accordance with GAAP. Capital assets include:
(a) Land, buildings (facilities), equipment, and intellectual property (including software) whether acquired by purchase, construction, manufacture, lease-purchase, exchange, or through capital leases; and
(b) Additions, improvements, modifications, replacements, rearrangements, reinstallations, renovations or alterations to capital assets that materially increase their value or useful life (not ordinary repairs and maintenance).
§ 1108.80
Claim.
Claim
means a written demand or written assertion by one of the parties to an award seeking as a matter of right, the payment of money in a sum certain, the adjustment or interpretation of an award term or condition, or other relief arising under or relating to the award. A routine request for payment that is not in dispute when submitted is not a claim. The submission may be converted to a claim by written notice to the grants or agreements officer if it is disputed either as to liability or amount or is not acted upon in a reasonable time.
§ 1108.85
Cognizant agency for indirect costs.
Cognizant agency for indirect costs
means the Federal agency responsible for reviewing, negotiating, and approving cost allocation plans and indirect cost proposals on behalf of all Federal agencies. The cognizant agency for indirect costs for a particular entity may be different than the cognizant agency for audit. The cognizant agency for indirect costs:
(a) For an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe is assigned as described in the appendices to 2 CFR part 200. See 2 CFR 200.19 for specific citations to those appendices.
(b) For a for-profit entity, normally will be the agency with the largest dollar amount of pertinent business, as described in the Federal Acquisition Regulation at 48 CFR 42.003.
§ 1108.90
Contract.
Contract
means a procurement transaction, as that term is defined in this subpart. A contract is a transaction into which a recipient or subrecipient enters. It is therefore distinct from the term “procurement contract,” which is a transaction that a DoD Component awards at the prime tier.
§ 1108.95
Contracting activity.
Contracting activity
means an activity to which the Head of a DoD Component has delegated broad authority regarding acquisition functions pursuant to 48 CFR 1.601.
§ 1108.100
Contracting officer.
Contracting officer
means a DoD official with the authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate procurement contracts and make related determinations and findings.
§ 1108.105
Contractor.
Contractor
means an entity to which a recipient or subrecipient awards a procurement transaction (also known as a contract).
§ 1108.110
Cooperative agreement.
Cooperative agreement
means a legal instrument which, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used to enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant (see definition of “grant” in this subpart), except that substantial involvement is expected between DoD and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the cooperative agreement. The term does not include “cooperative research and development agreements” as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a.
§ 1108.115
Co-principal investigator.
Co-principal investigator
means any one of a group of individuals whom an organization that is carrying out a research project with DoD support designates as sharing the authority and responsibility for leading and directing the research intellectually and logistically, other than the one among the group identified as the primary contact for scientific, technical, and related budgetary matters (see the definition of “principal investigator”).
§ 1108.120
Cost allocation plan.
Cost allocation plan
means either a:
(a) Central service cost allocation plan, as defined at 2 CFR 200.9 and described in Appendix V to 2 CFR part 200; or
(b) Public assistance cost allocation plan as described in Appendix VI to 2 CFR part 200.
§ 1108.125
Cost sharing or matching.
Cost sharing or matching
means the portion of project costs not borne by the Federal Government, unless a Federal statute authorizes use of any Federal funds for cost sharing or matching.
§ 1108.128
Cost type award.
Cost-type award
means an award that a DoD Component makes that provides for the recipient to be paid based on the actual, allowable costs it incurs in carrying out the award.
§ 1108.130
Cost-type contract.
Cost-type contract
means a procurement transaction awarded by a recipient or a subrecipient at any tier under a DoD Component's grant or cooperative agreement that provides for the contractor to be paid on the basis of the actual, allowable costs it incurs (plus any fee or profit for which the contract provides).
§ 1108.135
Cost-type subaward.
Cost-type subaward
means a subaward that:
(a) A recipient or subrecipient makes to another entity at the next lower tier; and
(b) Provides for payments to the entity that receives the cost-type subaward based on the actual, allowable costs it incurs in carrying out the subaward.
§ 1108.140
Debarment.
Debarment
means an action taken by a Federal agency debarring official to exclude a person or entity from participating in covered Federal transactions, in accordance with debarment and suspension policies and procedures for:
(a) Nonprocurement instruments, which are in OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 180, as implemented by the DoD at 2 CFR part 1125; or
(b) Procurement contracts, which are in the Federal Acquisition Regulation at 48 CFR 9.4.
§ 1108.145
Debt.
Debt
means any amount of money or any property owed to a Federal agency by any person, organization, or entity except another United States Federal agency. Debts include any amounts due from insured or guaranteed loans, fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, or overpayments, penalties, damages, interest, fines and forfeitures, and all other claims and similar sources. For the purposes of this chapter, amounts due a non-appropriated fund instrumentality are not debts owed the United States.
§ 1108.150
Delinquent debt.
Delinquent debt
means a debt:
(a) That the debtor fails to pay by the date specified in the initial written notice from the agency owed the debt, normally within 30 calendar days, unless the debtor makes satisfactory payment arrangements with the agency by that date; and
(b) With respect to which the debtor has elected not to exercise any available appeals or has exhausted all agency appeal processes.
§ 1108.155
Development.
Development
means, when used in the context of “research and development,” the systematic use of scientific and technical knowledge in the design, development, testing, or evaluation of potential new products, processes, or services to meet specific performance requirements or objectives. It includes the functions of design engineering,
prototyping, and engineering testing. It typically is funded within programs in Budget Activities 4 through 7 of DoD's Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT
E) appropriations.
§ 1108.160
Direct costs.
Direct costs
means any costs that are identified specifically with a particular final cost objective, such as an award, in accordance with the applicable cost principles.
§ 1108.165
DoD Components.
DoD Components
means the Office of the Secretary of Defense; the Military Departments; the National Guard Bureau (NGB); and all Defense Agencies, DoD Field Activities, and other organizational entities within the DoD that are authorized to award or administer grants, cooperative agreements, and other non-procurement instruments subject to the DoDGARs.
§ 1108.170
Equipment.
Equipment
means tangible personal property (including information technology systems) having a useful life of more than one year and a per-unit acquisition cost which equals or exceeds the lesser of:
(a) $5,000; or
(b) The recipient's or subrecipient's capitalization threshold for financial statement purposes.
§ 1108.175
Exempt property.
(a)
Exempt property
means tangible personal property acquired in whole or in part with Federal funds under a DoD Component's awards, for which the DoD Component:
(1) Has statutory authority to vest title in recipients (or allow for vesting in subrecipients) without further obligation to the Federal Government or subject to conditions the DoD Component considers appropriate; and
(2) Elects to use that authority to do so.
(b) An example of exempt property authority is contained in the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act (31 U.S.C. 6306) for tangible personal property acquired under an award to conduct basic or applied research by a nonprofit institution of higher education or nonprofit organization whose primary purpose is conducting scientific research.
§ 1108.180
Expenditures.
Expenditures
mean charges made by a recipient or subrecipient to a project or program under an award.
(a) The charges may be reported on a cash or accrual basis, as long as the methodology is disclosed and is consistently applied.
(b) For reports prepared on a cash basis, expenditures are the sum of:
(1) Cash disbursements for direct charges for property and services;
(2) The amount of indirect expense charged;
(3) The value of third-party in-kind contributions applied; and
(4) The amount of cash advance payments and payments made to subrecipients.
(c) For reports prepared on an accrual basis, expenditures are the sum of:
(1) Cash disbursements for direct charges for property and services;
(2) The amount of indirect expense incurred;
(3) The value of third-party in-kind contributions applied; and
(4) The net increase or decrease in the amounts owed by the recipient or subrecipient for:
(i) Goods and other property received;
(ii) Services performed by employees, contractors, subrecipients, and other payees; and
(iii) Programs for which no current services or performance are required, such as annuities, insurance claims, or other benefit payments.
§ 1108.185
Federal interest.
Federal interest
means, in relation to real property, equipment, or supplies acquired or improved under an award or subaward, the dollar amount that is the product of the:
(a) Federal share of total project costs; and
(b) Current fair market value of the property, improvements, or both, to the extent the costs of acquiring or improving the property were included as project costs.
§ 1108.190
Federal share.
Federal share
means the portion of the project costs under an award that is paid by Federal funds.
§ 1108.195
Fixed-amount award.
Fixed-amount award
means a DoD Component grant or cooperative agreement that provides for the recipient to be paid on the basis of performance and results, rather than the actual, allowable costs the recipient incurs.
§ 1108.200
Fixed-amount subaward.
Fixed-amount subaward
means a subaward:
(a) That a recipient or subrecipient makes to another entity at the next lower tier; and
(b) Under which the total amount to be paid to the other entity is based on performance and results, and not on the actual, allowable costs that entity incurs.
§ 1108.205
Foreign organization.
Foreign organization
means an entity that is:
(a) A public or private organization that is located in a country other than the United States and its territories and is subject to the laws of the country in which it is located, irrespective of the citizenship of project staff or place of performance;
(b) A private nongovernmental organization located in a country other than the United States and its territories that solicits and receives cash contributions from the general public;
(c) A charitable organization located in a country other than the United States and its territories that is nonprofit and tax exempt under the laws of its country of domicile and operation, and is not a university, college, accredited degree-granting institution of education, private foundation, hospital, organization engaged exclusively in research or scientific activities, church, synagogue, mosque or other similar entity organized primarily for religious purposes; or
(d) An organization located in a country other than the United States and its territories that is not recognized as a foreign public entity.
§ 1108.210
Foreign public entity.
Foreign public entity
means:
(a) A foreign government or foreign governmental entity;
(b) A public international organization, which is an organization entitled to enjoy privileges, exemptions, and immunities as an international organization under the International Organizations Immunities Act (22 U.S.C. 288-288f);
(c) An entity owned (in whole or in part) or controlled by a foreign government; or
(d) Any other entity consisting wholly or partially of one or more foreign governments or foreign governmental entities.
§ 1108.215
Grant.
Grant
means a legal instrument which, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a relationship:
(a) Of which the principal purpose is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States, rather than to acquire property or services for the DoD's direct benefit or use.
(b) In which substantial involvement is not expected between DoD and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award.
§ 1108.220
Grants officer.
Grants officer
means a DoD official with the authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate grants or cooperative agreements.
§ 1108.225
Indian tribe.
Indian tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. Chapter 33), which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)). See the annually published Bureau of Indian Affairs list of Indian Entities Recognized and Eligible to Receive Services.
§ 1108.230
Indirect costs (also known as “Facilities and Administrative,” or F
A, costs).
Indirect costs
means those costs incurred for a common or joint purpose benefitting more than one cost objective, and not readily assignable to the cost objectives specifically benefitted, without effort disproportionate to the results achieved.
§ 1108.235
Institution of higher education.
Institution of higher education
has the meaning specified at 20 U.S.C. 1001.
§ 1108.240
Intangible property.
Intangible property
means:
(a) Property having no physical existence, such as trademarks, copyrights, patents and patent applications; and
(b) Property such as loans, notes and other debt instruments, lease agreements, stock and other instruments of property ownership, whether the property is considered tangible or intangible.
§ 1108.245
Local government.
Local government
means any unit of government within a State, including a:
(a) County;
(b) Borough;
(c) Municipality;
(d) City;
(e) Town;
(f) Township;
(g) Parish;
(h) Local public authority, including any public housing agency under the United States Housing Act of 1937;
(i) Special district;
(j) School district;
(k) Intrastate district;
(l) Council of governments, whether or not incorporated as a nonprofit corporation under State law; and
(m) Any other agency or instrumentality of a multi-, regional, or intra-state or local government.
§ 1108.250
Management decision.
Management decision
means a written decision issued to an audited entity by a DoD Component, another Federal agency that has audit or indirect cost cognizance or oversight responsibilities for the audited entity, or a recipient or subrecipient from which the audited entity received an award or subaward. The DoD Component, cognizant or oversight agency, recipient, or subrecipient issues the management decision to specify the corrective actions that are necessary after evaluating the audit findings and the audited entity's corrective action plan.
§ 1108.255
Nonprocurement instrument.
Nonprocurement instrument
means a legal instrument other than a procurement contract that a DoD Component may award. Examples include an instrument of financial assistance, such as a grant or cooperative agreement, or an instrument of technical assistance, which provides services in lieu of money.
§ 1108.260
Nonprofit organization.
Nonprofit organization
means any corporation, trust, association, cooperative, or other organization, not including an institution of higher education, that:
(a) Is operated primarily for scientific, educational, service, charitable, or similar purposes in the public interest;
(b) Is not organized primarily for profit; and
(c) Uses net proceeds to maintain, improve, or expand the operations of the organization.
§ 1108.265
Obligation.
Obligation
means:
(a) When used in conjunction with a DoD Component's award, a legally binding agreement that will result in outlays, either immediately or in the future. Examples of actions through which a DoD Component incurs an obligation include the grants or agreements officer's signature of a grant, cooperative agreement, or technology investment agreement (or modification of such an award) authorizing the recipient to use funds under the award.
(b) When used in conjunction with a recipient's or subrecipient's use of funds under an award or subaward, an order placed for property and services, a contract or subaward made, or a
similar transaction, during a given period that requires payment during the same or a future period.
§ 1108.270
Office of Management and Budget.
Office of Management and Budget
means the Executive Office of the President, United States Office of Management and Budget.
§ 1108.275
Outlays.
Outlays
means “expenditures,” as defined in this subpart.
§ 1108.280
Participant support costs.
Participant support costs
means direct costs for items such as stipends or subsistence allowances, travel allowances, and registration fees paid to or on behalf of participants or trainees (but not employees) in connection with conferences or training projects.
§ 1108.285
Period of performance.
Period of performance
means the time during which a recipient or subrecipient may incur new obligations to carry out the work authorized under an award or subaward, respectively.
§ 1108.290
Personal property.
Personal property
means property other than real property. It may be tangible, having physical existence, or intangible, such as copyrights, patents, and securities.
§ 1108.295
Principal investigator.
Principal investigator
means either:
(a) The single individual whom an organization that is carrying out a research project with DoD support designates as having an appropriate level of authority and responsibility for leading and directing the research intellectually and logistically, which includes the proper conduct of the research, the appropriate use of funds, and compliance with administrative requirements such as the submission of performance reports to DoD; or
(b) If the organization designates more than one individual as sharing that authority and responsibility, the individual within that group identified by the organization as the one with whom the DoD Component's program manager generally should communicate as the primary contact for scientific, technical, and related budgetary matters concerning the project (others within the group are “co-principal investigators,” as defined in this subpart).
§ 1108.298
Prior approval.
Prior approval
means written or electronic approval by a DoD grants or agreements officer evidencing prior consent. When prior approval is required for an activity or expenditure that would result in a direct cost to a DoD award, the grants or agreements officer's signature on an award that includes the planned activity or expenditure in the scope of work or approved budget satisfies the requirement for prior approval. Otherwise, a recipient is required to obtain such approval after award.
§ 1108.300
Procurement contract.
Procurement contract
means a legal instrument which, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6303, reflects a relationship between the Federal Government and a State, a local government, or other recipient when the principal purpose of the instrument is to acquire property or services for the direct benefit or use of the Federal Government. A procurement contract is a prime-tier transaction and therefore distinct from a recipient's or subrecipient's “procurement transaction” or “contract” as defined in this subpart.
§ 1108.305
Procurement transaction.
Procurement transaction
means a legal instrument by which a recipient or subrecipient purchases property or services it needs to carry out the project or program under its award or subaward, respectively. A procurement transaction is distinct both from “subaward” and “procurement contract,” as those terms are defined in this subpart.
§ 1108.310
Program income.
Program income
means gross income earned by a recipient or subrecipient that is directly generated by a supported activity or earned as a result of an award or subaward (during the period of performance unless the award
or subaward specifies continuing requirements concerning disposition of program income after the end of that period).
(a) Program income includes, but is not limited to, income from:
(1) Fees for services performed;
(2) The use or rental of real or personal property for which the recipient or subrecipient is accountable under the award or subaward (whether acquired under the award or subaward, or other Federal awards from which accountability for the property was transferred);
(3) The sale of commodities or items fabricated under the award or subaward;
(4) License fees and royalties on patents and copyrights; and
(5) Payments of principal and interest on loans made with award or subaward funds.
(b) Program income does not include:
(1) Interest earned on advances of Federal funds;
(2) Proceeds from the sale of real property or equipment under the award; or
(3) Unless otherwise specified in Federal statute or regulation, or the terms and conditions of the award or subaward:
(i) Rebates, credits, discounts, and interest earned on any of them; or
(ii) Governmental revenues, taxes, special assessments, levies, fines, and similar revenues raised by the recipient or subrecipient.
§ 1108.315
Project costs.
Project costs
means the total of:
(a) Allowable costs incurred under an award by the recipient, including costs of any subawards and contracts under the award; and
(b) Cost-sharing or matching contributions that are required under the award, which includes voluntary committed (but not voluntary uncommitted) contributions and the value of any third-party in-kind contributions.
§ 1108.320
Property.
Property
means real property and personal property (equipment, supplies, intangible property, and debt instruments), unless stated otherwise.
§ 1108.325
Real property.
Real property
means land, including land improvements, structures and appurtenances thereto, but excluding moveable machinery and equipment.
§ 1108.330
Recipient.
Recipient
means an entity that receives an award directly from a DoD Component. The term does not include subrecipients.
§ 1108.335
Research.
Research
means basic, applied, and advanced research.
§ 1108.340
Simplified acquisition threshold.
Simplified acquisition threshold
means the dollar amount set by the Federal Acquisition Regulation at 48 CFR subpart 2.1, which is adjusted periodically for inflation in accordance with 41 U.S.C. 1908.
§ 1108.345
Small award.
Small award
means a DoD grant or cooperative agreement or a subaward with a total value over the life of the award that does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
§ 1108.350
State.
State,
for purposes of applying the administrative requirements in these regulations, means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any agency or instrumentality thereof exclusive of local governments.
§ 1108.355
Subaward.
Subaward
means a legal instrument by which a recipient or subrecipient at any tier transfers—for performance by an entity at the next lower tier—a portion of the substantive program for which the DoD Component made an award.
§ 1108.360
Subrecipient.
Subrecipient
means an entity that receives a subaward.
§ 1108.365
Supplies.
Supplies
means all tangible personal property, including computing devices, acquired under an award that does not meet the definition of equipment in this subpart.
§ 1108.370
Suspension.
Suspension
means either:
(a) When used in the context of a specific award or subaward, the temporary withdrawal of authority for that recipient or subrecipient to obligate funds under the award or subaward, pending its taking corrective action or a decision to terminate the award or subaward.
(b) When used in the context of an entity, an action by a DoD Component's suspending official under 2 CFR part 1125, DoD's regulation implementing OMB guidance on nonprocurement debarment and suspension in 2 CFR part 180, to immediately exclude the entity from participating in covered Federal Government transactions, pending completion of an investigation and any legal or debarment proceedings that ensue.
§ 1108.375
Technology investment agreement.
Technology investment agreement
means one of a special class of assistance instruments used to increase involvement of commercial firms in defense research programs and for other purposes related to integration of the commercial and defense sectors of the nation's technology and industrial base. Technology investment agreements include one kind of cooperative agreement with provisions tailored for involving commercial firms, as well as one kind of assistance transaction other than a grant or cooperative agreement. Technology investment agreements are subject to, and described more fully in, 32 CFR part 37.
§ 1108.380
Termination.
Termination
means the ending of an award or subaward, in whole or in part, at any time prior to the planned end of period of performance.
§ 1108.385
Third-party in-kind contribution.
Third-party in-kind contribution
means the value of a non-cash contribution (
i.e.,
property or services) that:
(a) A non-Federal third party contributes, without charge, either to a recipient or subrecipient at any tier under a DoD Component's award; and
(b) Is identified and included in the approved budget of the DoD Component's award, as a contribution being used toward meeting the award's cost-sharing or matching requirement (which includes voluntary committed, but not voluntary uncommitted, contributions).
§ 1108.390
Total value.
Total value
of a DoD grant, cooperative agreement, or TIA means the total amount of costs that are currently expected to be charged to the award over its life, which includes amounts for:
(a) The Federal share and any non-Federal cost sharing or matching required under the award; and
(b) Any options, even if not yet exercised, for which the costs have been established in the award.
§ 1108.395
Unique entity identifier.
Unique entity identifier
means the identifier required for System for Award Management registration to uniquely identify entities with which the Federal Government does business (currently the Dun and Bradstreet Data Universal Numbering System, or DUNS, number).
§ 1108.400
Unobligated balance.
Unobligated balance
means the amount of funds under an award or subaward that the recipient or subrecipient has not obligated. The amount is computed by subtracting the cumulative amount of the recipient's or subrecipient's unliquidated obligations and expenditures of funds from the cumulative amount of funds that it was authorized to obligate under the award or subaward.
§ 1108.405
Voluntary (committed or uncommitted) cost sharing.
(a)
Voluntary cost sharing
means cost sharing that an entity pledges voluntarily in its application (
i.e.,
not due to
a stated cost-sharing requirement in the notice of funding opportunity to which the entity's application responds).
(b)
Voluntary committed cost sharing
means voluntary cost sharing that a DoD Component accepts through inclusion in the approved budget for the project or program and as a binding requirement of the terms and conditions of the award made to the entity in response to its application.
(c)
Voluntary uncommitted cost sharing
means voluntary cost sharing that does not meet the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 1108.410
Working capital advance.
Working capital advance
means a payment method under which funds are advanced to a recipient or subrecipient to cover its estimated disbursement needs for a given initial period, after which the DoD component making the award makes payment to the recipient or subrecipient by way of reimbursement.
Pt. 1108, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1108—Background on Assistance, Acquisition, and Terms for Types of Legal Instruments

# I. Purpose of This Appendix
This appendix provides background intended to clarify some terms:
A. That are used in this chapter to describe either types of legal instruments that DoD Components, recipients, and subrecipients issue, or the purposes for which those types of instruments are used; and
B. For which this part provides definitions that vary depending on the context within which the terms are used.

# II. Why Definitions of Some Terms Are Context-Dependent
A. The DoDGARs contain both:
1. Direction to DoD Components concerning their award of grants and cooperative agreements at the prime tier; and
2. Terms and conditions that DoD Components include in their grants and cooperative agreements to specify the Government's and recipients' rights and responsibilities, including post-award requirements with which recipients' actions must comply.
B. In some cases, the same defined term or two closely related terms are used in relation to both DoD Component actions at the prime tier and recipient or subrecipient actions at lower tiers under DoD Components' awards. But a given defined term may have meanings that differ at the two tiers. For example, in part because the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act applies to DoD Component actions at the prime tier but not to recipient or subrecipient actions at lower tiers (see sections III and IV of this appendix):
1. The terms “acquire” and “acquisition” do not have precisely the same meaning in conjunction with actions at the prime and lower tiers.
2. The meaning of the term “procurement contract” used to describe DoD Component prime-tier actions is not precisely the same as the meaning of “procurement transaction” or “contract” used to describe recipient or subrecipient actions at lower tiers.

# III. Background: Distinguishing Prime-Tier Relationships and Legal Instruments
A. The Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act (31 U.S.C. chapter 63) specifies that the type of legal instrument a DoD Component is to use is based on the nature of the relationship between the DoD Component and the recipient.
B. Specifically, except where another statute authorizes DoD to do otherwise, 31 U.S.C. chapter 63 specifies use of:
1. A procurement contract as the legal instrument reflecting a relationship between a DoD Component and a recipient when the principal purpose of the relationship is to acquire property or services for the direct benefit or use of the Federal Government.
2. A grant or cooperative agreement as the legal instrument reflecting a relationship between those two parties when the principal purpose of the relationship is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by Federal statute.
C. The terms “acquisition” and “assistance” are defined in this part to correspond to the principal purposes described in paragraphs III.B.1 and 2 of this section, respectively. Using those terms, paragraphs III.B.1 and B.2 may be restated to say that grants and cooperative agreements are assistance instruments that DoD Components use, as distinct from procurement contracts they use for acquisition.

# IV. Background: Distinguishing Types of Recipients' and Subrecipients' Instruments
A. While the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act applies to Federal agencies, it does not govern types of instruments that recipients and subrecipients of any tier use. That statute does not require a recipient or subrecipient to:
1. Consider any instrument it makes at a lower tier under a Federal assistance award to be a grant or cooperative agreement.
Therefore, at its option, a recipient or subrecipient may consider all of its lower-tier instruments to be “contracts.”
2. Associate an “assistance” relationship, as that term is defined in this part and used in this chapter, with any lower-tier transaction that it makes.
B. However, the DoDGARs in this chapter do distinguish between two classes of lower-tier transactions that recipients and subrecipients make: Subawards and procurement transactions. The distinction promotes uniformity in requirements for lower-tier transactions under DoD grants and cooperative agreements. It is based on a long-standing distinction in OMB guidance to Federal agencies, currently at 2 CFR part 200, which DoD implements in this chapter.
C. The distinction between a subaward and procurement transaction is based on the primary purpose of that transaction.
1. The transaction is a subaward if a recipient or subrecipient enters into it with another entity at the next lower tier in order to transfer—for performance by that lower-tier entity—a portion of the substantive program for which the DoD grant or cooperative agreement provided financial assistance to the recipient. Because the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act does not apply to the recipient or subrecipient, it may make a subaward as defined in this part using an instrument that it considers a contract.
2. The transaction is a procurement transaction if the recipient or subrecipient enters into it in order to purchase goods or services from the lower-tier entity that the recipient or subrecipient needs to perform its portion of the substantive program supported by the DoD award.
PART 1109 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER B [Reserved]
PARTS 1110-1119 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER C—AWARD FORMAT AND NATIONAL POLICY TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR ALL GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS

# Source:
85 FR 51160, Aug. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
Pt. 1120

# PART 1120—AWARD FORMAT FOR DOD GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS
Sec.
1120.1
Purpose of this part.
1120.2
Applicability of this part.
1120.3
DoD Component implementation.
1120.4
Elements and subelements of the standard award format in relation to the organization of this part.

# Subpart A—Award Cover Pages
1120.100
Purpose of the award cover pages.
1120.105
Content of the award cover pages.
1120.110
Use of alternative to DoD form.

# Subpart B—Award-Specific Terms and Conditions
1120.200
Purpose and inclusion of award-specific terms and conditions.
1120.205
Organization and wording of award-specific terms and conditions.

# Subpart C—General Terms and Conditions
1120.300
Purpose of general terms and conditions.
1120.305
Requirement for general terms and conditions.
1120.310
Use of plain language.
1120.315
Availability of general terms and conditions.

# Subpart D—Preamble to the General Terms and Conditions
1120.400
Requirement to include a preamble.
1120.405
Content of the preamble.

# Subpart E—Administrative Requirements Portion of the General Terms and Conditions
1120.500
Scope of administrative requirements.
1120.505
Location of administrative requirements in the standard award format.
1120.510
Sources of administrative requirements.
1120.515
Incorporation of administrative requirements into general terms and conditions by reference.

# Subpart F—National Policy Requirements Portion of the General Terms and Conditions
1120.600
Scope of national policy requirements.
1120.605
Location of national policy requirements in the standard award format.
1120.610
Source of national policy requirements.
1120.615
Incorporation of national policy requirements into general terms and conditions by reference.

# Subpart G—Programmatic Requirements Portion of the General Terms and Conditions
1120.700
Scope of programmatic requirements.
1120.705
Location of programmatic requirements in the standard award format.
1120.710
Examples of programmatic requirements.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 10 U.S.C. 113.

# Source:
85 FR 51163, Aug. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1120.1
Purpose of this part.
This part of the DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations (DoDGARs) establishes a standard award format for DoD Components' grants and cooperative agreements. It thereby makes the content easier for a recipient to locate in different DoD Components' awards.
§ 1120.2
Applicability of this part.
(a)
To whom it applies.
This part:
(1) Sets forth requirements for DoD Components that award grants and cooperative agreements.
(2) Does not impose requirements on recipients of DoD Components' awards.
(b)
To what awards it applies.
This part applies to grants and cooperative agreements, other than technology investment agreements (TIAs), awarded to any type of recipient entity.
§ 1120.3
DoD Component implementation.
Each DoD Component that awards grants or cooperative agreements must:
(a) Conform the format of its awards to the standard format established by this part no later than [18 months after the effective date of the final rule].
(b) Update electronic systems it maintains for generating awards within 18 months of the issuance of a new or updated DoD form for the award cover pages, in order to implement that form in those systems, unless it has an approved deviation in accordance with § 1120.110.
§ 1120.4
Elements and subelements of the standard award format in relation to the organization of this part.
(a) The standard award format has three major elements that are designated as Divisions I through III of the award.
(1) The first major element of the standard award format is comprised of the award cover pages. It is designated as Division I of the award.
(2) The second major element is comprised of any award-specific terms and conditions. That element is designated as Division II of the award.
(3) The last of the three major elements of the standard award format is comprised of the general terms and conditions. That element is designated as Division III of the award. It has four subelements that are designated as Subdivisions A through D of the general terms and conditions.
(i) The first subelement of the general terms and conditions is the preamble, which is designated as Subdivision A.
(ii) The second subelement of the general terms and conditions is comprised of terms and conditions addressing administrative requirements. That subelement is designated as Subdivision B of the general terms and conditions.
(iii) The third subelement of the general terms and conditions is comprised of terms and conditions addressing national policy requirements. That subelement is designated as Subdivision C of the general terms and conditions.
(iv) The last of the four subelements of the general terms and conditions is comprised of any programmatic requirements that apply to awards using those general terms and conditions. That subelement is designated as Subdivision D of the general terms and conditions.
(b) This part has seven subparts. Each subpart addresses one major element or subelement of the standard award format, as shown in Table 1:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
b
)
Major element or subelement of the standard award format
Subpart of this part
(1) Division I—Award cover pages
Subpart A.
(2) Division II—Award-specific terms and conditions, if any
Subpart B.
(3) Division III—General terms and conditions, comprised of four subelements:
Subpart C.
(i) Subdivision A—The preamble to the general terms and conditions
Subpart D.
(ii) Subdivision B—General terms and conditions for administrative requirements
Subpart E.
(iii) Subdivision C of the—General terms and conditions for national policy requirements
Subpart F.
(iv) Subdivision D—General terms and conditions for programmatic requirements, if any
Subpart G.

# Subpart A—Award Cover Pages
§ 1120.100
Purpose of the award cover pages.
The award cover pages comprise the portion of each DoD Component award of a grant or cooperative agreement or modification to an award that the DoD Component transmits to the recipient when it makes the award or modification. It:
(a) Contains basic information about the award or modification and the recipient, as described in § 1120.105;
(b) Is signed by a DoD grants officer; and
(c) Also is signed by the recipient's authorized organizational representative if the award or modification is a bilateral action that is to be signed on behalf of both the DoD Component and recipient.
§ 1120.105
Content of the award cover pages.
The award cover pages of each DoD Component grant or cooperative agreement or modification:
(a) Must include, as a minimum, the following information about the award or modification:
(1) The name of the DoD Component awarding office that made the award or modification.
(2) The award number (Federal Award Identification Number or FAIN) and, if the action is a modification, the modification number.
(3) The type of award—
i.e.,
grant or cooperative agreement.
(4) The type of award action—
e.g.,
new award, funding modification, or administrative (non-funding) modification. For an administrative modification, the award cover pages should include a brief description of the purpose of the modification (
e.g.,
a no-cost extension of the end date of the period of performance).
(5) For a new award or funding modification:
(i) A brief description of the project or program supported by the award.
(ii) The amount of the obligation or deobligation of Federal funds due to the current action and any accompanying change in the total amount of cost sharing or matching required under the award.
(iii) The cumulative amounts of Federal funds and any corresponding non-Federal share obligated to date (
i.e.,
the sums of the amounts of the current action and the cumulative amounts of prior obligations and deobligations).
(iv) The total amount of the project costs in the currently approved budget through the end of the period of performance, the Federal share of that amount, and the non-Federal share even if that share is “zero.”
(v) The total value of the award; the Federal share of that total value (which includes Federal funding obligated to date; future incremental funding actions; and options for which amounts have been predetermined, whether or not they have been exercised yet); and the non-Federal share of that total value (
i.e.,
total cost sharing or matching required under the award).
(vi) A table such as the following may be helpful in clearly presenting the information described in paragraphs (a)(5)(ii) through (vi) of this section:
Federal
funds
Corresponding
non-Federal
share
Total
amount
(A) Obligated or deobligated this action
(B) Cumulative obligations to date, including this and previous actions
(C) Planned project costs in the currently approved budget through the end of the period of performance, to include any future incremental funding obligations
(D) Total value, which includes any unexercised options for which amounts were established in the award
(6) The obligation date (
i.e.,
the date of the grants officer's signature) and, if different, the effective date.
(7) The start date and current end date of the period of performance.
(8) The statutory authority or authorities under which the award or modification was made.
(9) The number and title of the program listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under which the award or modification was made.
(10) For a new award (or, as needed, in a modification that amends any of the following information):
(i) Whether the project or program under the award is research and development (R
D). This information is needed by auditors performing single audits of recipients because the OMB guidance to the auditors treats all Federal agencies' R
D programs as a single group (or “cluster”) of programs for audit sampling purposes (see the Single Audit Act requirements implemented in subpart E of 2 CFR part 1128 and FMS Article V in appendix E to part 1128).
(ii) What the award includes in addition to the cover pages—
i.e.,
the:
(A) Scope of work or other appropriate content to specify the goals and objectives of the project or program supported by the award;
(B) Approved budget; and
(C) General, and any award specific, terms and conditions of the award.
(iii) Where the portions of the award listed in paragraph (a)(10)(ii) of this section are located, which content the DoD Component generally should incorporate into the award by reference. When incorporating that content into the award by reference, the DoD Component must both:
(A) Indicate in the award cover pages that the award incorporates those items into the award by reference, thereby making them an integral part of the award; and
(B) Specify their location (see § 1120.315), rather than transmit them in their entirety with each award.
(iv) The order of precedence in the event of conflict among the general and any award-specific terms and conditions and other potential sources of requirements (
e.g.,
Federal statutes).
(v) The name of, and contact information for, the individual or office in the DoD responsible for post-award administration of the award. If there are multiple individuals and offices for different post-award functions (
e.g.,
payments and property administration), the award cover pages should provide information about each.
(vi) The name of, and contact information for, the DoD Component's program manager or other point of contact for programmatic matters.
(b) Must include, as a minimum, the following information about the recipient entity:
(1) The recipient's unique entity identifier required for its registration in the System for Award Management (SAM). Currently, that is the Dun and Bradstreet Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) number.
(2) The recipient's business name and address, which must be the legal business or “doing business as” name and physical address in SAM at the time of award corresponding to the recipient's unique entity identifier.
(3) The name and title of the recipient's authorized representative, either the individual who signed the application or proposal on behalf of the recipient entity or another individual designated by that entity.
(4) The name of the recipient's Project or Program Director (PD) or Principal Investigator (PI) and his or her organization, if different from the name of the recipient organization. If there are multiple PDs or co-PIs, the name and organization of each should be included.
(5) The indirect cost rate in effect at the start of the performance period for the award, which generally is a Governmentwide rate negotiated by the recipient's cognizant agency for indirect costs. However, this requirement does not apply—
i.e.,
the award cover pages need not include the recipient's indirect cost rate—if the recipient entity affirms that it treats its indirect cost rate as proprietary information.
(c) May also include, as applicable, elements such as:
(1) A statement that the award can be amended only by a grants officer. The statement might also explain how amendments are issued.
(2) Information about any planned, future incremental funding or options for which amounts were pre-determined.
§ 1120.110
Use of alternative to DoD form.
(a) A DoD Component may use something other than a DoD form as its award cover pages only if:
(1) There is not currently any DoD form for the award cover pages; or
(2) The DoD Component obtains approval for a deviation from the requirement to use a DoD form from the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, in accordance with the procedures specified in 32 CFR 21.340.
(b) If a DoD Component does not use a DoD form for its award cover pages, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, its award cover pages must include all information specified in § 1120.105.

# Subpart B—Award-specific Terms and Conditions
§ 1120.200
Purpose and inclusion of award-specific terms and conditions.
A DoD Component must include with each award, for transmission to the recipient, any terms and conditions needed to communicate requirements specific to the individual award as distinct from the more broadly applicable requirements in the general terms and conditions. For a modification to an award, only changes to previously transmitted terms and conditions must be included.
§ 1120.205
Organization and wording of award-specific terms and conditions.
DoD Components should organize and word award-specific terms and conditions to make them as clear and easy to understand as possible for the benefit of recipients, award administrators, auditors, and others who may need to use them. The DoDGARs specify neither a standard organization nor standard wording for award-specific terms and conditions.

# Subpart C—General Terms and Conditions
§ 1120.300
Purpose of general terms and conditions.
The general terms and conditions comprise the portion of the award with requirements that apply to a class of awards (
e.g.,
awards under a particular program or type of program activity, such as research or education, or for a class of recipients, such as for-profit entities).
§ 1120.305
Requirement for general terms and conditions.
Each DoD Component must establish at least one set of general terms and conditions. A DoD Component may have more than one set, as it deems appropriate to reflect differences in its award terms and conditions across different programs, classes of recipients, or types of activity.
§ 1120.310
Use of plain language.
(a) DoD Components must use plain language in:
(1) General terms and conditions of grants and cooperative agreements to institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, States, local governments, and Indian tribes. Those awards are subject to the DoDGARs provisions in:
(i) 2 CFR parts 1128 through 1138, the appendices to which provide standard wording for general terms and conditions addressing administrative requirements. That standard wording uses personal pronouns.
(ii) 2 CFR part 1122, the appendices to which provide standard wording for general terms and conditions addressing commonly applicable national policy requirements. That standard wording also uses personal pronouns.
(2) The national policy requirements in Subdivision B of general terms and conditions of grants and cooperative agreements to for-profit entities, which also are subject to 2 CFR part 1122.
(b) Although the DoDGARs currently do not provide standard wording for terms and conditions addressing administrative requirements for use in awards to for-profit entities, DoD Components are strongly encouraged to use plain language and personal pronouns in their terms and conditions of those other awards. The DoDGARs provisions that specify the administrative requirements to incorporate into those terms and conditions are listed in § 1120.510(b).
§ 1120.315
Availability of general terms and conditions.
(a) A DoD Component that issues a funding opportunity announcement under which grants or cooperative agreements may be awarded must maintain on the internet the general terms and conditions for those awards if:
(1) The distribution of the funding opportunity announcement is unlimited; and
(2) The DoD Component anticipates making 10 or more awards per year using those general terms and conditions.
(b) Each DoD Component that maintains a set of general terms and conditions on the internet must also maintain an archive of previous versions of that set at the same internet location, for use by recipients, post-award administrators, auditors, and others. Each version must be labeled with its effective dates.
(c) If a DoD Component has a set of general terms and conditions that is not subject to the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section and the DoD Component chooses not to maintain that set on the internet:
(1) It must tell potential applicants or proposers in the funding opportunity announcement, if there is one, how they may view or obtain a copy of the general terms and conditions; or
(2) If there is no funding opportunity announcement (
e.g.,
if it is a noncompetitive program for which all recipients are known in advance), the DoD Component must provide the general terms and conditions to each recipient no later than the time of award.

# Subpart D—Preamble to the General Terms and Conditions
§ 1120.400
Requirement to include a preamble.
Each DoD Component must include a preamble as Subdivision A of each set of general terms and conditions it maintains, to provide information to help recipients understand how to use those terms and conditions.
§ 1120.405
Content of the preamble.
The preamble for each set of general terms and conditions must include at least the following information elements, organized in the order shown:
(a)
Table of contents.
This should show the articles within each other subdivision of the general terms and conditions (Subdivisions B and C for administrative and national policy requirements and, if needed, Subdivision D for programmatic requirements).
(b)
Scope.
This element identifies the programs, types of awards, and types of recipient entities that are subject to the set of general terms and conditions.
(c)
Effective date.
This is the date on which the particular version of the set of general terms and conditions became effective, which enables a recipient to easily distinguish it from any earlier or subsequent versions. The version date of each article within the general terms and conditions must be indicated in parentheses following the title of the article, to help a recipient identify the articles that changed from previous versions of the general terms and conditions.
(d)
English language.
The purpose of this element of the preamble is to implement OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.111(b) by informing each recipient that:
(1) It must translate any of the award content (including attachments to it and any material incorporated into the award by reference) into another language to the extent that the recipient's compliance with the award's terms and conditions depends upon a significant number of its employees who are not fluent in English being able to read and comprehend that content.
(2) If it does translate any award content into another language, either as required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section or at its own initiative, the original award content in the English language will take precedence in the event of an inconsistency between the award requirements in the English and translated versions.
(e)
Plain language.
This section of the preamble is required when the general terms and conditions use personal pronouns, in accordance with § 1120.310. Its purpose is to inform recipients about the meanings of those personal pronouns.
(f)
Definitions.
Providing the definitions of words and phrases that are used in the general terms and conditions and defined in the DoDGARs is more helpful to recipients than referring them to the DoDGARs to find the definitions.

# Subpart E—Administrative Requirements Portion of the General Terms and Conditions
§ 1120.500
Scope of administrative requirements.
The administrative requirements in an award are post-award and after-the-award requirements for recipients in the following subject matter areas:
(a) Financial and program management, to include financial management system standards, payment, allowable costs, program and budget revisions, audits, cost sharing or matching, and program income.
(b) Property administration, to include title vesting, property management system standards, and use and disposition of tangible and intangible property.
(c) Recipient procurement procedures.
(d) Financial, programmatic, property, and other reporting.
(e) Records retention and access, remedies, claims and disputes, and closeout.
§ 1120.505
Location of administrative requirements in the standard award format.
As shown in the table in § 1120.4(b), the standard award format includes administrative requirements as Subdivision B of the general terms and conditions.
§ 1120.510
Sources of administrative requirements.
The source of administrative requirements is:
(a) Subchapter D of this chapter for cost-type grant and cooperative agreement awards to institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, States, local governments, and Indian tribes. Subchapter D provides a standard set of articles into which a DoD Component organizes the administrative requirements. It also provides standard wording for the general terms and conditions in those articles, as explained in the overview of subchapter D in 2 CFR part 1126.
(b) 32 CFR part 34 for grant and cooperative agreement awards to for-profit entities. That part of the DoDGARs specifies the administrative requirements for awards to those entities but does not provide standard articles or terms and conditions.
§ 1120.515
Incorporation of administrative requirements into general terms and conditions by reference.
(a) For cost-type awards to institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, States, local governments, and Indian tribes, DoD Components are strongly encouraged to construct the portion of their general terms and conditions addressing administrative requirements by:
(1) Incorporating the standard wording of each article of administrative requirements provided in subchapter D of this chapter (the standard wording of the articles is in the appendices to 2 CFR parts 1128 through 1138) into those general terms and conditions by reference; and
(2) Stating any variations from that standard wording (
e.g.,
any sections or paragraphs that the DoD Component adds, revises, or omits, consistent with the DoDGARs prescription for use of the standard wording).
(b) Incorporating that standard wording into general terms and conditions by reference, rather than including the full text of each article of the general terms and conditions, will make it easier for those who must use terms and conditions of multiple DoD Components' awards (
e.g.,
recipients, DoD Components' post-award administrators, and auditors) to quickly identify how each Component's general terms and conditions differ from the DoD standard wording.

# Subpart F—National Policy Requirements Portion of the General Terms and Conditions
§ 1120.600
Scope of national policy requirements.
National policy requirements, as defined in 2 CFR 1122.2, are requirements:
(a) That are prescribed by a statute, Executive order, policy guidance issued by the Executive Office of the President, or regulation that specifically
refer to grants, cooperative agreements, or financial assistance in general;
(b) With which a recipient of a grant or cooperative agreement must comply during the period of performance; and
(c) That are outside subject matter areas covered by administrative requirements, as described in § 1120.500.
§ 1120.605
Location of national policy requirements in the standard award format.
As shown in the table in § 1120.4(b), the standard award format includes national policy requirements as Subdivision C of the general terms and conditions.
§ 1120.610
Source of national policy requirements.
The source of national policy requirements to be included in a grant or cooperative agreement is 2 CFR part 1122.
§ 1120.615
Incorporation of national policy requirements into general terms and conditions by reference.
For the same reason given in § 1120.515(b), DoD Components are strongly encouraged to construct the portion of their general terms and conditions addressing national policy requirements for awards to all types of recipient entities, including for-profit entities, by:
(a) Incorporating the standard wording of each article of national policy requirements provided in the appendices to 2 CFR part 1122 into those general terms and conditions by reference; and
(b) Stating any variations from that standard wording (
e.g.,
any added, omitted, or revised paragraphs, based on which national policy requirements apply to programs and recipients for which the general terms and conditions are used).

# Subpart G—Programmatic Requirements Portion of the General Terms and Conditions
§ 1120.700
Scope of programmatic requirements.
A requirement is most appropriately included in the programmatic requirements portion of the general terms and conditions if it:
(a) Is not in one of the subject matter areas covered by the administrative requirements in Subdivision B of the general terms and conditions, as described in § 1120.500.
(b) Does not meet the criteria in § 1120.600 for a national policy requirement.
(c) Broadly applies to awards using the general terms and conditions. Requirements that apply to relatively few of those awards are more appropriately included in the award-specific terms and conditions of the individual awards to which they apply.
(d) Is expected to be in effect for the foreseeable future, rather than for a limited period of time. For example, a requirement in an annual appropriations act that applies specifically to funding made available by that act is better addressed through the award-specific terms and conditions of awards or modifications to which it applies.
§ 1120.705
Location of programmatic requirements in the standard award format.
As shown in the table in § 1120.4(b), the standard award format includes programmatic requirements as Subdivision D of the general terms and conditions.
§ 1120.710
Examples of programmatic requirements.
Examples of provisions appropriately included as programmatic requirements in Subdivision D of the general terms and conditions include:
(a) Requirements for recipients to acknowledge the DoD Component's support in publications of results of the projects or programs performed under awards.
(b) Requirements for recipients to promptly alert the DoD Component if they develop any information in the course of performing the projects or programs under their awards that, in their judgment, might adversely affect national security if disclosed.
(c) Reservation of the Government's right to use non-Federal personnel in any aspect of post-award administration of awards, with appropriate nondisclosure requirements placed on
those personnel to protect sensitive information about recipients or the projects or programs supported by their awards.
PART 1121 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1122

# PART 1122—NATIONAL POLICY REQUIREMENTS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Sec.

# Subpart A—General
1122.1
Purpose of this part.
1122.2
Definition of “national policy requirement.”
1122.3
Definitions of other terms as they are used in this part.

# Subpart B—Terms and Conditions
1122.100
Purpose of this subpart.
1122.105
Where to find the terms and conditions.
1122.110
Organization of each article of national policy requirements.
1122.115
Cross-cutting national policy requirements.
1122.120
Other national policy requirements.
Appendix A
Terms and condition for NP Article I, “Nondiscrimination National Policy Requirements.”
Appendix B
Terms and condition for NP Article II, “Environmental National Policy Requirements.”
Appendix C
Terms and conditions for NP Article III, “National Policy Requirements Concerning Live Organisms.”
Appendix D
Terms and conditions for NP Article IV, “Other National Policy Requirements.”

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 10 U.S.C. 113.

# Source:
85 FR 51225, Aug. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1122.1
Purpose of this part.
(a) This part specifies a standard format and standard wording of general terms and conditions for Subdivision B of the general terms and conditions of DoD grants and cooperative agreements, which concerns national policy requirements.
(b) It thereby implements:
(1) Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in 2 CFR 200.210(b)(ii) and 200.300, as those paragraphs of 2 CFR part 200 relate to national policy requirements for general terms and conditions of DoD grants and cooperative agreements to institutions of higher education and other nonprofit organizations, States, local governments, and Indian tribes.
(2) National policy requirements, to the extent they apply, for general terms and conditions of DoD awards to for-profit firms, foreign organizations, and foreign public entities.
§ 1122.2
Definition of “national policy requirement.”
For the purposes of this chapter, a national policy requirement is a requirement:
(a) That is prescribed by a statute, Executive order, policy guidance issued by the Executive Office of the President, or regulation that specifically refers to grants, cooperative agreements, or financial assistance in general;
(b) With which a recipient of a grant or cooperative agreement must comply during the period of performance; and
(c) That is outside subject matter areas covered by administrative requirements in subchapters D or E of this chapter.
§ 1122.3
Definition of other terms as they are used in this part.
Because the meaning of some terms used in this part derive from their definitions in the statutes, Executive orders, or other sources of national policy requirements that this part implements, the meanings of those terms may vary from their meanings in other parts of the DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations. For example, some statutes define “State
”
in ways that differ from each other and from the definition provided in 2 CFR part B. In each case, the definition in the source of the pertinent national policy requirement takes precedence over the definition in 2 CFR part B for the purposes of complying with that requirement.

# Subpart B—Terms and Conditions
§ 1122.100
Purpose of this subpart.
This subpart provides:
(a) Direction to DoD Components on how to construct the four articles of
national policy requirements for inclusion in the general terms and conditions of grants and cooperative agreements.
(b) Standard wording for national policy requirements that are more commonly applicable to DoD Components' grants and cooperative agreements.
§ 1122.105
Where to find the terms and conditions.
(a) Appendices A through D of this part provide standard wording of terms and conditions for the four articles of national policy requirements. The articles address the rights and responsibilities of the Government and the recipient related to those national policy requirements.
(b) The following table shows which national policy terms and conditions may be found in each appendix to this part:
In . . .
You will find terms and conditions specifying recipients' rights and responsibilities related to . . .
That would appear in an award within NP Article . . .
Appendix A
Non-discrimination national policy requirements
I.
Appendix B
Environmental national policy requirements
II.
Appendix C
National policy requirements concerning live organisms
III.
Appendix D
Other national policy requirements
IV.
§ 1122.110
Organization of each article of national policy requirements.
Each of NP Articles I through IV includes two sections.
(a) Section A of each article includes national policy requirements that are cross-cutting in that their applicability extends to many or all DoD awards. Appendices A through D to this part provide standard wording for each of those requirements.
(b) Section B of each article is the location in the award for program-specific national policy requirements. Section B is reserved in the standard wording of the articles provided in appendices A through D to this part.
§ 1122.115
Cross-cutting national policy requirements.
(a)
General requirement to include applicable cross-cutting requirements.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the standard wording provided in appendices A through D to this part for each national policy requirement addressed in Section A of NP Articles I, II, III, and IV, respectively, that may apply either to:
(1) A recipient of an award using those general terms and conditions; or
(2) A subrecipient of a subaward under an award using those general terms and conditions.
(b)
Authority to reserve or omit inapplicable paragraphs.
A DoD Component may reserve or omit any paragraph appendices A through D to this part provide for Section A of NP Articles I, II, III, and IV of its general terms and conditions if it determines that the national policy requirement addressed in that paragraph will not apply to any awards using those terms and conditions nor to any subawards under them.
(c)
Authority to use alternate wording.
(1) A DoD Component may use different wording for a national policy requirement than is provided in appendices A through D to this part if it is authorized or required to do so by a statute or a regulation published in the Code of Federal Regulations after opportunity for public comment.
(2) A DoD Component in that case:
(i) Must include the wording required by the statute or regulation in Section B of the appropriate article. This will help a recipient recognize the wording as a variation of the usual DoD wording for the requirement.
(ii) May either reserve the paragraph of Section A of the article in which that national policy requirement otherwise would appear or insert in that paragraph wording to refer the recipient to the paragraph in Section B of the article in which the requirement does appear.
§ 1122.120
Other national policy requirements.
If a DoD Component determines that awards using its general terms and conditions, or subawards under them, are subject to a national policy requirement that is not addressed in the standard wording appendices A through D to this part provide for cross-cutting requirements, the DoD Component must include the requirement in its general terms and conditions. It should add the requirement in Section B of NP Article I, II, III, or IV, as most appropriate to the subject matter of the requirement.
Pt. 1122, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1122—Terms and Conditions for NP Article I, “Nondiscrimination National Policy Requirements”
A DoD Component must use the following wording for NP Article I of its general terms and conditions in accordance with the provisions of Subpart B of this part.

# NP Article I. Nondiscrimination national policy requirements. (December 2014)
Section A. Cross-cutting nondiscrimination requirements.
By signing this award or accepting funds under this award, you assure that you will comply with applicable provisions of the national policies prohibiting discrimination:
1. On the basis of race, color, or national origin, in Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.
), as implemented by Department of Defense (DoD) regulations at 32 CFR part 195.
2. On the basis of gender, blindness, or visual impairment, in Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681
et seq.
), as implemented by DoD regulations at 32 CFR part 196.
3. On the basis of age, in the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101
et seq.
), as implemented by Department of Health and Human Services regulations at 45 CFR part 90.
4. On the basis of disability, in the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), as implemented by Department of Justice regulations at 28 CFR part 41 and DoD regulations at 32 CFR part 56.
5. On the basis of disability in the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4151
et seq.
) related to physically handicapped persons' ready access to, and use of, buildings and facilities for which Federal funds are used in design, construction, or alteration.
Section B.
[Reserved]
Pt. 1122, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1122—Terms and Conditions for NP Article II, “Environmental National Policy Requirements”
A DoD Component must use the following wording for NP Article II of its general terms and conditions in accordance with the provisions of Subpart B of this part.

# NP Article II. Environmental national policy requirements. (December 2014)
Section A. Cross-cutting environmental requirements.
You must:
1. You must comply with all applicable Federal environmental laws and regulations. The laws and regulations identified in this section are not intended to be a complete list.
2. Comply with applicable provisions of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401,
et seq.
) and Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251,
et seq.
).
3. Comply with applicable provisions of the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4821-4846), as implemented by the Department of Housing and Urban Development at 24 CFR part 35. The requirements concern lead-based paint in buildings owned by the Federal Government or housing receiving Federal assistance.
4. Immediately identify to us, as the Federal awarding agency, any potential impact that you find this award may have on:
a. The quality of the “human environment”, as defined in 40 CFR 1508.14, including wetlands; and provide any help we may need to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA, at 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
), the regulations at 40 CFR 1500-1508, and E.O. 12114, if applicable; and assist us to prepare Environmental Impact Statements or other environmental documentation. In such cases, you may take no action that will have an environmental impact (
e.g.,
physical disturbance of a site such as breaking of ground) or limit the choice of reasonable alternatives to the proposed action until we provide written notification of Federal compliance with NEPA or E.O. 12114.
b. Flood-prone areas and provide any help we may need to comply with the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended by the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4001
et seq.
), which require flood insurance, when available, for federally assisted construction or acquisition in flood-prone areas.
c. A land or water use or natural resource of a coastal zone that is part of a federally approved State coastal zone management plan and provide any help we may need to comply with the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451,
et seq.
) including preparation of a Federal agency Coastal Consistency Determination.
d. Coastal barriers along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts and Great Lakes' shores and provide help we may need to comply with the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
), concerning preservation of barrier resources.
e. Any existing or proposed component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers system and provide any help we may need to comply with the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 1968 (16 U.S.C. 1271
et seq.
).
f. Underground sources of drinking water in areas that have an aquifer that is the sole or principal drinking water source and in wellhead protection areas, and provide any help we may need to comply with the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.
).
5. You must comply fully with the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (ESA, at 16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
), and implementing regulations of the Departments of the Interior (50 CFR parts 10-24) and Commerce (50 CFR parts 217-227). You also must provide any help we may need in complying with the consultation requirements of ESA section 7 (16 U.S.C. 1536) applicable to Federal agencies or any regulatory authorization we may need based on the award of this grant. This is not in lieu of responsibilities you have to comply with provisions of the Act that apply directly to you as a U.S. entity, independent of receiving this award.
6. You must fully comply with the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, as amended (MMPA, at 16 U.S.C. 1361
et seq.
) and provide any assistance we may need in obtaining any required MMPA permit based on an award of this grant.
Section B.
[Reserved]
Pt. 1122, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 1122—Terms and Conditions for NP Article III, “National Policy Requirements Concerning Live Organisms”
A DoD Component must use the following wording for NP Article III of its general terms and conditions in accordance with the provisions of Subpart B of this part.

# NP Article III. National policy requirements concerning live organisms. (December 2014)
Section A. Cross-cutting requirements concerning live organisms.
1.
Human subjects.
a. You must protect the rights and welfare of individuals who participate as human subjects in research under this award and comply with the requirements at 32 CFR part 219, DoD Instruction (DoDI) 3216.02, 10 U.S.C. 980, and when applicable, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations.
b. You must not begin performance of research involving human subjects, also known as human subjects research (HSR), that is covered under 32 CFR part 219, or that meets exemption criteria under 32 CFR 219.101(b), until you receive a formal notification of approval from a DoD Human Research Protection Official (HRPO). Approval to perform HSR under this award is received after the HRPO has performed a review of your documentation of planned HSR activities and has officially furnished a concurrence with your determination as presented in the documentation.
c. In order for the HRPO to accomplish this concurrence review, you must provide sufficient documentation to enable his or her assessment as follows:
i. If the HSR meets an exemption criterion under 32 CFR 219.101(b), the documentation must include a citation of the exemption category under 32 CFR 219.101(b) and a rationale statement.
ii. If your activity is determined as “non-exempt research involving human subjects”, the documentation must include:
(A) Assurance of Compliance (
i.e.,
Department of Health and Human Services Office for Human Research Protections (OHRP) Federalwide Assurance (FWA)) appropriate for the scope of work or program plan; and
(B) Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval, as well as all documentation reviewed by the IRB to make their determination.
d. The HRPO retains final judgment on what activities constitute HSR, whether an exempt category applies, whether the risk determination is appropriate, and whether the planned HSR activities comply with the requirements in paragraph 1.a of this section.
e. You must notify the HRPO immediately of any suspensions or terminations of the Assurance of Compliance.
f. DoD staff, consultants, and advisory groups may independently review and inspect your research and research procedures involving human subjects and, based on such findings, DoD may prohibit research that presents unacceptable hazards or otherwise fails to comply with DoD requirements.
g. Definitions for terms used in paragraph 1 of this article are found in DoDI 3216.02.
2.
Animals.
a. Prior to initiating any animal work under the award, you must:
i. Register your research, development, test, and evaluation or training facility with the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with 7 U.S.C. 2136 and 9 CFR 2.30, unless otherwise exempt from this requirement by meeting the conditions in 7 U.S.C. 2136 and 9 CFR parts 1-4 for the duration of the activity.
ii. Have your proposed animal use approved in accordance with Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3216.01, Use of Animals in DoD Programs by a DoD Component Headquarters Oversight Office.
iii. Furnish evidence of such registration and approval to the grants officer.
b. You must make the animals on which the research is being conducted, and all premises, facilities, vehicles, equipment, and records that support animal care and use available during business hours and at other times mutually agreeable to you, the United States Department of Agriculture Office of Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA/APHIS) representative, personnel representing the DoD component oversight offices, as well as the grants officer, to ascertain that you are compliant with 7 U.S.C. 2131
et seq.,
9 CFR parts 1-4, and DoDI 3216.01.
c. Your care and use of animals must conform with the pertinent laws of the United States, regulations of the Department of Agriculture, and regulations, policies, and procedures of the Department of Defense (see 7 U.S.C. 2131
et seq.,
9 CFR parts 1-4, and DoDI 3216.01).
d. You must acquire animals in accordance with DoDI 3216.01.
3.
Use of Remedies.
Failure to comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs 1-2 of this section may result in the DoD Component's use of remedies,
e.g.,
wholly or partially terminating or suspending the award, temporarily withholding payment under the award pending correction of the deficiency, or disallowing all or part of the cost of the activity or action (including the federal share and any required cost sharing or matching) that is not in compliance. See OAR Article III.
Section B.
[Reserved]
Pt. 1122, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 1122—Terms and Conditions for NP Article IV, “Other National Policy Requirements”
A DoD Component must use the following wording for NP Article IV of its general terms and conditions in accordance with the provisions of Subpart B of this part.

# NP Article IV. Other National Policy Requirements. (December 2014)
Section A. Cross-cutting requirements.
1.
Debarment and suspension.
You must comply with requirements regarding debarment and suspension in Subpart C of 2 CFR part 180, as adopted by DoD at 2 CFR part 1125. This includes requirements concerning your principals under this award, as well as requirements concerning your procurement transactions and subawards that are implemented in PROC Articles I through III and SUB Article II.
2.
Drug-free workplace.
You must comply with drug-free workplace requirements in Subpart B of 2 CFR part 26, which is the DoD implementation of 41 U.S.C. chapter 81, “Drug-Free Workplace.”
3.
Lobbying.
a. You must comply with the restrictions on lobbying in 31 U.S.C. 1352, as implemented by DoD at 32 CFR part 28, and submit all disclosures required by that statute and regulation.
b. You must comply with the prohibition in 18 U.S.C. 1913 on the use of Federal funds, absent express Congressional authorization, to pay directly or indirectly for any service, advertisement or other written matter, telephone communication, or other device intended to influence at any time a Member of Congress or official of any government concerning any legislation, law, policy, appropriation, or ratification.
c. If you are a nonprofit organization described in section 501(c)(4) of title 26, United States Code (the Internal Revenue Code of 1968), you may not engage in lobbying activities as defined in the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C., chapter 26). If we determine that you have engaged in lobbying activities, we will cease all payments to you under this and other awards and terminate the awards unilaterally for material failure to comply with the award terms and conditions.
4.
Officials not to benefit.
You must comply with the requirement that no member of Congress shall be admitted to any share or part of this award, or to any benefit arising from it, in accordance with 41 U.S.C. 6306.
5.
Hatch Act.
If applicable, you must comply with the provisions of the Hatch Act (5 U.S.C. 1501-1508) concerning political activities of certain State and local government employees, as implemented by the Office of Personnel Management at 5 CFR part 151, which limits political activity of employees or officers of State or local governments whose employment is connected to an activity financed in whole or part with Federal funds.
6.
Native American graves protection and repatriation.
If you control or possess Native American remains and associated funerary objects, you must comply with the requirements of 43 CFR part 10, the Department of the Interior implementation of the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act of 1990 (25 U.S.C., chapter 32).
7.
Fly America Act.
You must comply with the International Air Transportation Fair Competitive Practices Act of 1974 (49 U.S.C. 40118), commonly referred to as the “Fly America Act,” and implementing regulations at 41 CFR 301-10.131 through 301-10.143. The law and regulations require that U.S. Government financed international air travel of passengers and transportation of personal effects or property must use a U.S. Flag air carrier or be performed under a cost sharing arrangement with a U.S. carrier, if such service is available.
8.
Use of United States-flag vessels.
You must comply with the following requirements of
the Department of Transportation at 46 CFR 381.7, in regulations implementing the Cargo Preference Act of 1954:
a. Pursuant to Public Law 83-664 (46 U.S.C. 55305), at least 50 percent of any equipment, materials or commodities procured, contracted for or otherwise obtained with funds under this award, and which may be transported by ocean vessel, must be transported on privately owned United States-flag commercial vessels, if available.
b. Within 20 days following the date of loading for shipments originating within the United States or within 30 working days following the date of loading for shipments originating outside the United States, a legible copy of a rated, “on-board” commercial ocean bill-of-lading in English for each shipment of cargo described in paragraph 8.a of this section must be furnished to both our award administrator (through you in the case of your contractor's bill-of-lading) and to the Division of National Cargo, Office of Market Development, Maritime Administration, Washington, DC 20590.
9.
Research misconduct.
You must comply with requirements concerning research misconduct in Enclosure 4 to DoD Instruction 3210.7, “Research Integrity and Misconduct.” The Instruction implements the Governmentwide research misconduct policy that the Office of Science and Technology Policy published in the
Federal Register
(65 FR 76260, December 6, 2000, available through the U.S. Government Printing Office website:
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2000/12/06/00-30852/executive-office-of-the-president-federal-policy-on-research-misconduct-preamble-for-research
).
10.
Requirements for an Institution of Higher Education Concerning Military Recruiters and Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC).
a. As a condition for receiving funds available to the DoD under this award, you agree that you are not an institution of higher education (as defined in 32 CFR part 216) that has a policy or practice that either prohibits, or in effect prevents:
i. The Secretary of a Military Department from maintaining, establishing, or operating a unit of the Senior Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC)—in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 654 and other applicable Federal laws—at that institution (or any subelement of that institution);
ii. Any student at that institution (or any subelement of that institution) from enrolling in a unit of the Senior ROTC at another institution of higher education.
iii. The Secretary of a Military Department or Secretary of Homeland Security from gaining access to campuses, or access to students (who are 17 years of age or older) on campuses, for purposes of military recruiting in a manner that is at least equal in quality and scope to the access to campuses and to students that is provided to any other employer; or
iv. Access by military recruiters for purposes of military recruiting to the names of students (who are 17 years of age or older and enrolled at that institution or any subelement of that institution); their addresses, telephone listings, dates and places of birth, levels of education, academic majors, and degrees received; and the most recent educational institutions in which they were enrolled.
b. If you are determined, using the procedures in 32 CFR part 216, to be such an institution of higher education during the period of performance of this award, we:
i. Will cease all payments to you of DoD funds under this award and all other DoD grants and cooperative agreements; and
ii. May suspend or terminate those awards unilaterally for material failure to comply with the award terms and conditions.
11.
Historic preservation.
You must identify to us any:
a. Property listed or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places that will be affected by this award, and provide any help we may need, with respect to this award, to comply with Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (54 U.S.C. 306108), as implemented by the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation regulations at 36 CFR part 800 and Executive Order 11593, “Identification and Protection of Historic Properties,” [3 CFR, 1971-1975 Comp., p. 559]. Impacts to historical properties are included in the definition of “human environment” that require impact assessment under NEPA (See NP Article II, Section A).
b. Potential under this award for irreparable loss or destruction of significant scientific, prehistorical, historical, or archeological data, and provide any help we may need, with respect to this award, to comply with the Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974 (54 U.S.C. chapter 3125).
12.
Relocation and real property acquisition.
You must comply with applicable provisions of 49 CFR part 24, which implements the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601,
et seq.
) and provides for fair and equitable treatment of persons displaced by federally assisted programs or persons whose property is acquired as a result of such programs.
13.
Confidentiality of patient records.
You must keep confidential any records that you maintain of the identity, diagnosis, prognosis, or treatment of any patient in connection with any program or activity relating to substance abuse education, prevention, training, treatment, or rehabilitation that is assisted directly or indirectly under this award, in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 290dd-2.
14.
Pro-Children Act.
You must comply with applicable restrictions in the Pro-Children Act of 1994 (Title 20, Chapter 68, subchapter X, Part B of the U.S. Code) on smoking in any indoor facility:
a. Constructed, operated, or maintained under this award and used for routine or regular provision of kindergarten, elementary, or secondary education or library services to children under the age of 18.
b. Owned, leased, or contracted for and used under this award for the routine provision of federally funded health care, day care, or early childhood development (Head Start) services to children under the age of 18.
15.
Constitution Day.
You must comply with Public Law 108-447, Div. J, Title I, Sec. 111 (36 U.S.C. 106 note), which requires each educational institution receiving Federal funds in a Federal fiscal year to hold an educational program on the United States Constitution on September 17th during that year for the students served by the educational institution.
16.
Trafficking in persons.
You must comply with requirements concerning trafficking in persons specified in the award term at 2 CFR 175.15(b), as applicable.
17.
Whistleblower protections.
You must comply with 10 U.S.C. 2409, including the:
a. Prohibition on reprisals against employees disclosing certain types of information to specified persons or bodies; and
b. Requirement to notify your employees in writing, in the predominant native language of the workforce, of their rights and protections under that statute.
Section B.
[Reserved]
PARTS 1123-1124 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1125

# PART 1125—NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
Sec.
1125.10
What does this part do?
1125.20
Does this part implement the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180 for all DoD nonprocurement transactions?
1125.30
Does this part apply to me?
1125.40
What policies and procedures must I follow?

# Subpart A—General
1125.137
Who in the Department of Defense may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
1125.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
1125.332
What method must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of DoD Officials Regarding Transactions
1125.425
When do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
1125.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
Subparts E-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions
1125.930
Debarring official (DoD supplement to Governmentwide definition at 2 CFR 180.930).
1125.937
DoD Component.
1125.1010
Suspending official (DoD supplement to Governmentwide definition at 2 CFR 180.1010).

# Authority:
Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327; E.O. 12549, 3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189; E.O. 12689, 3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235; 5 U.S.C. 301 and 10 U.S.C. 113.

# Source:
72 FR 34984, June 26, 2007. Redesignated at 85 FR 51161, Aug. 19, 2020.
§ 1125.10
What does this part do?
This part adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this part, as the Department of Defense (DoD) policies and procedures for nonprocurement debarment and suspension. It thereby gives regulatory effect for the Department of Defense to the OMB guidance as supplemented by this part. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189), Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Section 2455, Public Law 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327).
§ 1125.20
Does this part implement the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180 for all DoD nonprocurement transactions?
This part implements the OMB guidelines in 2 CFR part 180 for most DoD
nonprocurement transactions. However, it does not implement the guidelines as they apply to prototype projects under the authority of Section 845 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (Pub. L. 103-160), as amended. The Director of Defense Procurement and Acquisition Policy maintains a DoD issuance separate from this part that addresses section 845 transactions.
§ 1125.30
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 (see table at 2 CFR 180.100(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Participant or principal in a “covered transaction” (see subpart B of 2 CFR part 180 and the definition of “nonprocurement transaction” at 2 CFR 180.970, as supplemented by subpart B of this part), other than a section 845 transaction described in § 1125.20;
(b) Respondent in a DoD Component's nonprocurement suspension or debarment action;
(c) DoD Component's debarment or suspension official; or
(d) DoD Component's grants officer, agreements officer, or other official authorized to enter into a nonprocurement transaction that is a covered transaction.
§ 1125.40
What policies and procedures must I follow?
(a)
General.
You must follow the policies and procedures specified in applicable sections of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as implemented by this part.
(b)
Specific sections of OMB guidance that this part supplements.
In implementing the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180, this part supplements eight sections of the guidance, as shown in the following table. For each of those sections, you must follow the policies and procedures in the OMB guidance, as supplemented by this part.
Section of OMB guidance
Section in this part where supplemented
What the supplementation clarifies
(1) 2 CFR 180.135
§ 1125.137
Who in DoD may grant an exception for an excluded person to participate in a covered transaction.
(2) 2 CFR 180.220
§ 1125.220
Which lower-tier contracts under a nonprocurement transaction are covered transactions.
(3) 2 CFR 180.330
§ 1125.332
What method a participant must use to communicate requirements to a lower-tier participant.
(4) 2 CFR 180.425
§ 1125.425
When a DoD awarding official must check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified.
(5) 2 CFR 180.435
§ 1125.437
What method a DoD official must use to communicate requirements to a participant.
(6) 2 CFR 180.930
§ 1125.930
Which DoD officials are debarring officials.
(7) 2 CFR 180.1010
§ 1125.1010
Which DoD officials are suspending officials.
(c)
Sections of the OMB guidance that this part does not supplement.
For any section of OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR 180 that is not listed in paragraph (b) of this section, DoD policies and procedures are the same as those in the OMB guidance.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1125.137
Who in the Department of Defense may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
Within the Department of Defense, the Secretary of Defense, Secretary of a Military Department, Head of a Defense Agency, Head of the Office of Economic Adjustment, and Head of the Special Operations Command have the authority to grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction, as provided in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.135.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 1125.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?
Although the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.220(c) allows a Federal agency to do
so (also see optional lower tier coverage in the figure in the appendix to 2 CFR part 180), the Department of Defense does not extend coverage of nonprocurement suspension and debarment requirements beyond first-tier procurement contracts under a covered nonprocurement transaction.

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
§ 1125.332
What method must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
You as a participant in a covered transaction must include a term or condition in any lower-tier covered transaction into which you enter, to require the participant of that transaction to—
(a) Comply with subpart C of the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180; and
(b) Include a similar term or condition in any covered transaction into which it enters at the next lower tier.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of DoD Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 1125.425
When do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
In addition to the four instances identified in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.425, you as a DoD Component official must check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified before you obligate additional funding (
e.g.
, through an incremental funding action) for a pre-existing grant or cooperative agreement with an institution of higher education, as provided in 32 CFR 22.520(e)(5).
§ 1125.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
You as a DoD Component official must include a term or condition in each covered transaction into which you enter, to communicate to the participant the requirements to—
(a) Comply with subpart C of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by subpart C of this part; and
(b) Include a similar term or condition in any lower-tier covered transactions into which the participant enters.
Subparts E-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions
§ 1125.930
Debarring official (DoD supplement to Governmentwide definition at 2 CFR 180.930).
DoD Components' debarring officials for nonprocurement transactions are the same officials identified in 48 CFR part 209, subpart 209.4, as debarring officials for procurement contracts.
§ 1125.937
DoD Component.
In this part, DoD Component means the Office of the Secretary of Defense, a Military Department, a Defense Agency, a DoD Field Activity, or any other organizational entity of the Department of Defense that is authorized to award or administer grants, cooperative agreements, or other nonprocurement transactions.
§ 1125.1010
Suspending official (DoD supplement to Governmentwide definition at 2 CFR 180.1010).
DoD Components' suspending officials for nonprocurement transactions are the same officials identified in 48 CFR part 209, subpart 209.4, as suspending officials for procurement contracts.

# SUBCHAPTER D—ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COST-TYPE GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS TO NONPROFIT AND GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES

# Source:
85 FR 51161, Aug. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
Pt. 1126

# PART 1126—SUBCHAPTER D OVERVIEW
Sec.
1126.1
Purposes of this subchapter.
1126.2
Applicability of this subchapter.
1126.3
Exceptions from requirements in this subchapter.
1126.4
Relationship to other portions of the DoD grant and agreement regulations.
1126.5
Organization of this subchapter.
1126.6
Organization of the other parts of this subchapter.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 10 U.S.C. 113.

# Source:
85 FR 51171, Aug. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1126.1
Purposes of this subchapter.
This subchapter of the DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations:
(a) Addresses general terms and conditions governing administrative requirements for use by DoD Components when awarding cost-type grants and cooperative agreements to institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, States, local governments, and Indian tribes. It does so by providing:
(1) A standard organization of the administrative requirements into articles of general terms and conditions, each of which is in a specific subject area.
(2) Standard wording for those articles; and
(3) Associated prescriptions for DoD Component's use of the standard wording to construct their general terms and conditions, which allow for adding, omitting, or varying in other ways from the standard wording in certain situations.
(b) Thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 200 as it relates to general terms and conditions of grants and cooperative agreements to institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, States, local governments, and Indian tribes.
§ 1126.2
Applicability of this subchapter.
(a)
Entities.
This subchapter:
(1) Applies to DoD Components that award cost-type grants and cooperative agreements to institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, States, local governments, and Indian tribes.
(2) Does not directly impose requirements on a recipient of a DoD Component's award but does do so indirectly, through the DoD Component's compliance with this subchapter when it constructs its general award terms and conditions. The terms and conditions delineate the rights and responsibilities of the recipient and the Federal Government under the award.
(b)
Awards.
This subchapter applies to DoD Components' cost-type grants and cooperative agreements to types of entities identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, other than Technology Investment Agreements that are addressed in 32 CFR part 37.
§ 1126.3
Exceptions from requirements in this subchapter.
(a)
Exceptions that are not permitted.
A DoD Component may not grant any exception to the requirements in this subchapter if the exception is:
(1) Prohibited by statute, executive order, or regulation;
(2) Inconsistent with the OMB implementation of the Single Audit Act in Subpart F of 2 CFR part 200.
(b)
Other exceptions.
Other exceptions are permitted from requirements in this subchapter for institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, States, local governments, and Indian tribes as follows:
(1)
Statutory or regulatory exceptions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions may incorporate a requirement that is inconsistent with the requirements in this subchapter if that requirement is specifically authorized or required by a statute or regulation
adopted in the Code of Federal Regulations after opportunity for public comment.
(2)
Individual exceptions.
The Head of the DoD Component or his or her designee may approve an individual exception affecting only one award in accordance with procedures stated in 32 CFR 21.340.
(3)
Small awards.
A DoD Component's terms and conditions for small awards may apply less restrictive requirements than those specified in this subchapter (a small award is an award for which the total value of obligated funding through the life of the award is not expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold).
(4)
Other class exceptions.
The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering or his or her designee may approve any class exception affecting multiple awards other than small awards, with OMB concurrence if the class exception is for a requirement that is inconsistent with OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 200. Procedures for DoD Components' requests for class exceptions are stated in 32 CFR 21.340.
§ 1126.4
Relationship to other portions of the DoD grant and agreement regulations.
The administrative requirements specified in this subchapter complement:
(a) Provisions of 32 CFR part 34 that address administrative requirements for DoD Components' grants and cooperative agreements to for-profit entities; and
(b) Requirements in 32 CFR part 37 for technology investment agreements.
§ 1126.5
Organization of this subchapter.
This subchapter is organized into six parts in addition to this overview part. Each part provides standard wording and prescriptions for articles of general terms and conditions that address administrative requirements in a particular subject area. Table 1 shows the subject area and articles corresponding to each part:
Table 1 to § 1126.5
In . . .
Of this subchapter, you will find terms and conditions with associated prescriptions for the following articles related to . . .
Part 1128
Recipient financial and program management (designated as “FMS” when referring to articles prescribed by this part):
—FMS Article I—Financial management system standards.
—FMS Article II—Payments.
—FMS Article III—Allowable costs, period of availability of funds, and fee or profit.
—FMS Article IV—Revision of budget and program plans.
—FMS Article V—Non-Federal audits.
—FMS Article VI—Cost sharing or matching.
—FMS Article VII—Program income.
Part 1130
Property administration (designated as “PROP” when referring to articles prescribed by this part):
—PROP Article I—Title to property.
—PROP Article II—Property management system.
—PROP Article III—Use and disposition of real property.
—PROP Article IV—Use and disposition of equipment and supplies.
—PROP Article V—Use and disposition of federally owned property.
—PROP Article VI—Intangible property.
Part 1132
Recipient procurement procedures (designated as “PROC” when referring to articles prescribed by this part):
—PROC Article I—Procurement standards for States.
—PROC Article II—Procurement standards for institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, local governments, and Indian tribes.
—PROC Article III—Contract provisions for recipient procurements.
Part 1134
Financial, programmatic, and property reporting (designated as “REP” when referring to articles prescribed by this part):
—REP Article I—Performance management, monitoring, and reporting.
—REP Article II—Financial reporting.
—REP Article III—Reporting on property.
—REP Article IV—Reporting on subawards and executive compensation.
—REP Article V—Other reporting.
Part 1136
Other administrative requirements (designated as “OAR” when referring to articles prescribed by this part):
—OAR Article I—Submitting and maintaining recipient information.
—OAR Article II—Records retention and access.
—OAR Article III—Remedies and termination.
—OAR Article IV—Claims, disputes, and appeals.
—OAR Article V—Collection of amounts due.
—OAR Article VI—Closeout.
—OAR Article VII—Post-closeout adjustments and continuing responsibilities.
Part 1138
Requirements related to subawards (designated as “SUB” when referring to articles prescribed by this part):
—SUB Article I—Distinguishing subawards and procurements.
—SUB Article II—Pre-award and time of award responsibilities.
—SUB Article III—Informational content of subawards.
—SUB Article IV—Financial and program management requirements for subawards.
—SUB Article V—Property requirements for subawards.
—SUB Article VI—Procurement procedures to include in subawards.
—SUB Article VII—Financial, programmatic, and property reporting requirements for subawards.
—SUB Article VIII—Other administrative requirements for subawards.
—SUB Article IX—National Policy Requirements for Subawards.
—SUB Article X—Subrecipient monitoring and other post-award administration.
—SUB Article XI—Requirements concerning subrecipients' lower-tier subawards.
—SUB Article XII—Fixed-amount subawards.
§ 1126.6
Organization of the other parts of this subchapter.
(a) Each of parts 1128 through 1138 of this subchapter is organized into subparts and appendices.
(1) Each appendix provides the standard wording of general terms and conditions for one of the articles of general terms and conditions that the part addresses.
(2) For each appendix addressing a particular article, the part has an associated subpart that provides the prescription for DoD Components' use of the standard wording for that article.
(b) For example, Table 1 to § 1126.5 indicates that 2 CFR part 1128 provides the standard wording of general terms and conditions for FMS Articles I through VII and the prescriptions for DoD Components' use of that standard wording.
(1) FMS Article I on financial management system standards is the first of the articles that 2 CFR part 1128 covers. Appendix A to 2 CFR part 1128 provides the standard wording of general terms and conditions for FMS Article I. The associated subpart of 2 CFR part 1128, subpart A, provides the prescription for DoD Components' use of the standard wording of that article.
(2) Appendices B through G of 2 CFR part 1128 provide the standard wording of general terms and conditions for FMS Articles II through VII, respectively. The associated subparts, Subparts B through G, provide the corresponding prescriptions for DoD Components.
Pt. 1128

# PART 1128—RECIPIENT FINANCIAL AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Sec.
1128.1
Purpose of this part.
1128.2
Applicability of this part.
1128.3
Exceptions from requirements of this part.
1128.4
Organization of this part.

# Subpart A—Financial Management System Standards (FMS Article I)
1128.100
Purpose of FMS Article I.
1128.105
Content of FMS Article I.

# Subpart B—Payments (FMS Article II)
1128.200
Purpose of FMS Article II.
1128.205
Content of FMS Article II.
1128.210
Payment requirements for States.
1128.215
Payment requirements for institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, local governments, and Indian tribes.
1128.220
Electronic funds transfer and other payment procedural instructions or information.

# Subpart C—Allowable Costs, Period of Availability of Funds, and Fee or Profit (FMS Article III)
1128.300
Purpose of FMS Article III.
1128.305
Content of FMS Article III.
1128.310
Cost principles.
1128.315
Clarification concerning allowability of publication costs.
1128.320
Period of availability of funds.
1128.325
Fee or profit.

# Subpart D—Revision of Budget and Program Plans (FMS Article IV)
1128.400
Purpose of FMS Article IV.
1128.405
Content of FMS Article IV.
1128.410
Approved budget.
1128.415
Prior approvals for non-construction activities.
1128.420
Prior approvals for construction activities.
1128.425
Additional prior approval for awards that support both non-construction and construction activities.
1128.430
Procedures for prior approvals.

# Subpart E—Non-Federal audits (FMS Article V)
1128.500
Purpose of FMS Article V.
1128.505
Content of FMS Article V.

# Subpart F—Cost Sharing or Matching (FMS Article VI)
1128.600
Purpose of FMS Article VI.
1128.605
Content of FMS Article VI.
1128.610
General requirement for cost sharing or matching.
1128.615
General criteria for determining allowability as cost sharing or matching.
1128.620
Allowability of unrecovered indirect costs as cost sharing or matching.
1128.625
Allowability of program income as cost sharing or matching.
1128.630
Valuation of services or property contributed or donated by recipients or subrecipients.
1128.635
Valuation of third-party in-kind contributions.

# Subpart G—Program Income (FMS Article VII)
1128.700
Purpose of FMS Article VII.
1128.705
Content of FMS Article VII.
1128.710
What program income includes.
1128.715
Recipient obligations for license fees and royalties.
1128.720
Program income use.
1128.725
Program income after the period of performance.
Appendix A to Part 1128—Terms and conditions for FMS Article I, “Financial management system standards”
Appendix B to Part 1128—Terms and conditions for FMS Article II, “Payments”
Appendix C to Part 1128—Terms and conditions for FMS Article III, “Allowable costs, period of availability of funds, and fee or profit”
Appendix D to Part 1128—Terms and conditions for FMS Article IV, “Revision of budget and program plans”
Appendix E to Part 1128—Terms and conditions for FMS Article V, “Non-Federal audits”
Appendix F to Part 1128—Terms and conditions for FMS Article VI, “Cost sharing or matching”
Appendix G to Part 1128—Terms and conditions for FMS Article VII, “Program income”

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 10 U.S.C. 113.

# Source:
85 FR 51171, Aug. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1128.1
Purpose of this part.
(a) This part specifies standard wording of general terms and conditions concerning financial and program management, including recipients' financial management systems, payments, cost sharing or matching, program income, budget and program revisions, audits, allowable costs, and periods of availability of funds.
(b) It thereby implements OMB guidance in the following portions of 2 CFR part 200, as they apply to general terms and conditions of grants and cooperative agreements:
(1) Sections 200.80, 200.209, and 200.302 through 200.309;
(2) Sections 200.301 and 200.328, as they relate to associations between financial data and performance accomplishments and reporting; and
(3) Subparts E and F.
§ 1128.2
Applicability of this part.
The types of awards and entities to which this part and other parts in this subchapter apply are described in the subchapter overview at 2 CFR 1126.2.
§ 1128.3
Exceptions from requirements of this part.
Exceptions are permitted from the administrative requirements in this part only as described at 2 CFR 1126.3.
§ 1128.4
Organization of this part.
(a) The content of this part is organized into subparts and associated appendices.
(1) Each subpart provides direction to DoD Components on how to construct one article of general terms and conditions for grants and cooperative agreements.
(2) For each subpart, there is a corresponding appendix with standard wording for terms and conditions of the article addressed by the subpart. Terms and conditions address rights and responsibilities of the Federal Government and recipients.
(b) A DoD Component must use the wording provided in each appendix in accordance with the direction in the corresponding subpart. That direction may permit DoD Components to vary from the standard wording in some situations.
(c) Table 1 shows which article of general terms and conditions may be found in each of appendices A through G to this part (with the associated direction to DoD Components in Subparts A through G, respectively):
Table 1 to Paragraph
(c)
In . . .
You will find terms and conditions specifying recipients' rights and responsibilities related to . . .
That would appear in an award within FMS Article . . .
Appendix A
Financial management system standards
I.
Appendix B
Payments
II.
Appendix C
Allowable costs, period of availability of funds, and fee or profit
III.
Appendix D
Revision of budget and program plans
IV.
Appendix E
Non-Federal audits
V.
Appendix F
Cost sharing or matching
VI.
Appendix G
Program income
VII.

# Subpart A—Financial Management System Standards (FMS Article I)
§ 1128.100
Purpose of FMS Article I.
FMS Article I specifies standards for recipients' financial management systems. It thereby implements OMB guidance in:
(a) 2 CFR 200.302, 200.303, and 200.328; and
(b) 2 CFR 200.301 and 200.328, as they relate to associations between financial data and performance accomplishments and reporting.
§ 1128.105
Content of FMS Article I.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must address requirements for recipients' financial management systems.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording appendix A to this part provides for FMS Article I.
(2)
Exceptions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions may:
(i) Reserve Section A of FMS Article I if the DoD Component determines that it is not possible that any States will receive:
(A) DoD Component awards using those general terms and conditions; or
(B) Subawards from recipients of DoD Component awards using those general terms and conditions.
(ii) Reserve paragraph B.6 of FMS Article I if the DoD Component determines that it will not require recipients of awards using those general terms and conditions to relate financial data to performance accomplishments (
e.g.,
through unit costs). Because the nature of research makes the use of unit costs and other relationships between financial data and performance accomplishments generally inappropriate, DoD Components should reserve paragraph B.6 in general terms and conditions for awards supporting research.

# Subpart B—Payments (FMS Article II)
§ 1128.200
Purpose of FMS Article II.
FMS Article II contains requirements related to payments under an award. It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.305.
§ 1128.205
Content of FMS Article II.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must address payment method; payment timing and amounts, which relate to cash
management; frequency of payment requests; and matters related to recipients' depositories, including interest earned on advance payments.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording appendix B to this part provides for FMS Article II with appropriate additions, deletions, and substitutions as described in §§ 1128.210 through 1128.220.
§ 1128.210
Payment requirements for States.
(a)
Policy.
Payments to States are subject to requirements in Department of the Treasury regulations at 31 CFR part 205 that implement the Cash Management Improvement Act. Those regulations are in two subparts with distinct requirements that apply to different programs:
(1) Subpart A of 31 CFR part 205 contains requirements for payments to States under “major programs,” as defined in that part. The Department of the Treasury negotiates Treasury-State agreements for major programs. Those agreements specify the appropriate timing and amounts of payments. They further specify a State's interest liability if it receives an advance payment too many days before it disburses the funds for program purposes, as well as the Federal Government's interest liability if it reimburses the State too many days after the State disburses the funds. Most DoD awards to States are not under major programs, so Subpart A applies relatively infrequently.
(2) Subpart B of 31 CFR part 205 applies to all other DoD grants and cooperative agreements to States—
i.e.,
awards that are not under major programs.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
Because few DoD awards to States are under major programs, appendix B to this part includes wording for Section A of FMS Article II that specifies the requirements of Subpart B of 31 CFR part 205. A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include this wording for Section A of FMS Article II if no award using those terms and conditions will be made to a State under a program designated as a major program in the applicable Treasury-State agreement.
(2)
Exception for awards under major programs.
If a DoD Component is establishing general terms and conditions that will be used for awards to States, only some of which are subject to requirements for major programs in Subpart A of 31 CFR part 205, then the DoD Component should:
(i) Use appendix B's wording for Section A of FMS Article II in its general terms and conditions; and
(ii) In each award subject to Subpart A of 31 CFR part 205, include award-specific terms and conditions that make payments to the recipient subject to the requirements in Subpart A of 31 CFR part 205 and the applicable Treasury-State agreement, thereby overriding the wording of Section A of FMS Article II.
§ 1128.215
Payment requirements for institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, local governments, and Indian tribes.
(a)
Policy.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.305 addresses the use of three payment methods for grants and cooperative agreements—advance payments, reimbursement, and working capital advances. Two of the methods pertain to a DoD Component's general terms and conditions, as described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Advance payments.
With the possible exception of construction awards, as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must authorize each recipient to request payments in advance as long as the recipient maintains, or demonstrates the willingness to maintain, both:
(i) Written procedures that minimize the time elapsing between its receipt of funds from the Federal Government and its disbursement of the funds for project or program purposes; and
(ii) Financial management systems that meet the standards for fund control and accountability specified in the wording of FMS Article I (see Subpart A and appendix A to this part).
(2)
Reimbursement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions may specify the reimbursement method if the awards using those terms and
conditions will support construction projects financed in whole or in part by the Federal Government.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
Appendix B provides wording for Section B of FMS Article II that a DoD Component:
(i) Must use in general terms and conditions for non-construction awards to authorize recipients to request advance payments; and
(ii) May use in general terms and conditions for construction awards if it elects to authorize recipients of those awards to request advance payments.
(2)
Alternative award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component may develop an alternative to appendix B's wording for Section B of FMS Article II to use in general terms and conditions for construction awards, if it elects to specify reimbursement as the payment method for those awards. The alternative:
(i) Would replace appendix B's wording for paragraph B.1 with wording to specify the reimbursement method of payment;
(ii) Must include appendix B's wording for paragraphs B.2.b and c, B.4, and B.5, which may be renumbered as appropriate, because those paragraphs apply to reimbursements as well as advance payments;
(iii) Should omit appendix B's wording for paragraphs B.2.a, B.3, and B.6 because those paragraphs apply specifically to advance payments; and
(iv) Must inform recipients that the DoD payment office generally makes payment within 30 calendar days after receipt of the request for reimbursement by the award administration office, unless the request is reasonably believed to be improper.
§ 1128.220
Electronic funds transfer and other payment procedural instructions or information.
(a)
Policy.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify that payments will be made by electronic funds transfer (EFT) unless a recipient is excepted in accordance with Department of the Treasury regulations at 31 CFR part 208 from the Governmentwide requirement to use EFT.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
Electronic funds transfer.
Appendix B provides wording for Section C of FMS Article II that a DoD Component must use to specify payment by EFT, when awards are not excepted from the Governmentwide requirement.
(2)
Other payment procedures or instructions.
A DoD Component may insert one or more paragraphs in its general terms and conditions in lieu of the reserved paragraph C.2 in appendix B, to provide procedural instructions or information regarding payments that is common to awards using those terms and conditions. For example, it may insert wording to give detailed instructions on where and how recipients are to submit payment requests. All forms, formats, and data elements for payment requests must be OMB-approved information collections.

# Subpart C—Allowable Costs, Period of Availability of Funds, and Fee or Profit (FMS Article III)
§ 1128.300
Purpose of FMS Article III.
FMS Article III of the general terms and conditions specifies what costs are allowable as charges to awards and when they are allowable. It also specifies restrictions on payment of fee or profit. It thereby implements OMB guidance in §§ 200.209 and 200.309 and Subpart E of 2 CFR part 200. It also partially implements 2 CFR 200.201(b)(1) and 200.323(c), as those sections apply to the cost principles to be used in relation to subawards and contracts, respectively.
§ 1128.305
Content of FMS Article III.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must address allowability of costs and permissibility of fee or profit.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording appendix C to this part provides for FMS Article III with appropriate reservations as described in §§ 1128.310 through 1128.325.
§ 1128.310
Cost principles.
(a)
Policy.
The set of Governmentwide cost principles applicable to a particular entity type governs the allowability of costs that may be:
(1) Charged to each cost-type:
(i) DoD grant or cooperative agreement to a recipient of that entity type;
(ii) Subaward to a subrecipient of that entity type at any tier below a DoD grant or cooperative agreement; and
(iii) Procurement transaction with a contractor of that entity type awarded by a recipient of a DoD grant or cooperative agreement or a subrecipient that received a subaward at any tier below that grant or cooperative agreement.
(2) Considered in establishing the amount of any:
(i) Fixed-amount subaward, at any tier under a grant or cooperative agreement, to a subrecipient of that entity type; or
(ii) Fixed-price procurement transaction with a contractor of that entity type that is awarded by either a recipient of a DoD grant or cooperative agreement or a subrecipient that received a subaward at any tier below that grant or cooperative agreement.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
Because almost all DoD grants and cooperative agreements are cost-type awards, appendix C includes wording for Section A of FMS Article III that specifies use of the applicable Governmentwide cost principles in the determination of the allowability of costs.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component may reserve any paragraph of appendix C's wording for Section A of FMS Article III in its general terms and conditions if the Component is certain that no entities of the type to which the paragraph applies could be recipients of awards using those general terms and conditions or recipients of subawards or procurement transactions at any tier under those awards.
§ 1128.315
Clarification concerning allowability of publication costs.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must clarify that a recipient must charge publication costs consistently as either direct or indirect costs in order for those costs to be allowable charges to DoD grants and cooperative agreements.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
To clarify the allowability of publication costs, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording appendix C to this part provides for Section B of FMS Article III.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component may instead reserve Section B of FMS Article III in its general terms and conditions if the DoD Component determines that there will be no publication costs under any of the awards using those general terms and conditions.
§ 1128.320
Period of availability of funds.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify the period during which Federal funds are available for obligation by recipients for project or program purposes.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording appendix C to this part provides for Section C of FMS Article III to specify the period of availability of funds.
§ 1128.325
Fee or profit.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify that recipients may neither receive fee or profit nor pay fee or profit to subrecipients.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component must use the wording appendix C to this part provides for Section D of FMS Article III to specify the limitation on payment of fee or profit.

# Subpart D—Revision of Budget and Program Plans (FMS Article IV)
§ 1128.400
Purpose of FMS Article IV.
FMS Article IV of the general terms and conditions specifies requirements related to changes in recipients' budget and program plans. It thereby implements OMB guidance in § 200.308 of 2 CFR part 200 and partially implements § 200.209 and Subpart E of that part.
§ 1128.405
Content of FMS Article IV.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify the changes in budget and program plans for which a recipient is required to request DoD Component prior approval and the procedures for submitting those requests.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include as FMS Article IV the § wording appendix D to this part provides, with any revisions to the wording that are authorized by §§ 1128.410 through 1128.430.
§ 1128.410
Approved budget.
(a)
OMB guidance.
As described in 2 CFR 200.308(a), the approved budget for a grant or cooperative agreement may include both the Federal and non-Federal shares of funding under the award or only the Federal share.
(b)
DoD implementation.
For DoD grants and cooperative agreements, the approved budget includes the Federal share and any cost sharing or matching that the recipient is required to provide under the award.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions therefore must include the wording appendix D to this part provides for Section A of FMS Article IV.
§ 1128.415
Prior approvals for non-construction activities.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.308(c) through (e) addresses prior approval requirements for revisions of a recipient's budget and program plans under a non-construction grant or cooperative agreement, which includes, for the purposes of this section, non-construction activities under an award that supports both construction and non-construction.
(b)
DoD implementation of the guidance.
The following paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section provide details of the DoD implementation of the guidance in 2 CFR 200.308(c) through (e) and paragraph (h) specifies the corresponding award terms and conditions. A DoD Component's general terms and conditions for non-construction awards may require additional prior approvals for budget and program revisions (
i.e.,
prior approvals other than those authorized by this subpart) only in accordance with the exceptions provisions of 2 CFR 1126.3.
(c)
Scope or objective, cost sharing or matching, and additional Federal funds.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions for non-construction awards must require that a recipient obtain DoD Component prior approval:
(1) For a change in scope or objective of the project or program, as described in 2 CFR 200.308(c)(1)(i).
(2) For any change in the cost sharing or matching included in the approved budget for which FMS Article VI requires prior approval, as described in OMB guidance at 2 CFR 200.308(c)(1)(vii).
(3) If the need arises for additional Federal funds to complete the project or program, as described in 2 CFR 200.308(c)(1)(viii).
(d)
Personnel changes, disengagements, or reductions in time.
A DoD Component must include the following prior approval requirements in general terms and conditions of research awards and may include them in general terms and conditions of other non-construction awards:
(1) A change in a key person, as described in 2 CFR 200.308(c)(1)(ii).
(2) A principal investigator's or project director's disengagement from, or reduction in time devoted to, the project or program, as described in 2 CFR 200.308(c)(1)(iii).
(e)
Costs requiring prior approval under the cost principles.
With respect to waivers of prior approvals required by the cost principles, as described in 2 CFR 200.308(c)(1)(iv):
(1) Any waiver of a cost principles requirement for prior approval by a recipient entity's cognizant agency for indirect costs is appropriately addressed in award-specific terms and conditions, rather than general terms and conditions, because the general terms and conditions must be appropriate for use in awards to multiple recipient entities.
(2) A DoD Component may waive requirements in the cost principles for recipients to request prior approval before charging certain costs as direct costs to awards. However, the DoD Component should carefully consider
each prior approval requirement individually and decide:
(i) Which, if any, to waive; and
(ii) Whether to make the waiver of the prior approval requirement contingent on specified conditions (
e.g.,
a DoD Component might waive the prior approval required for direct charging of special purpose equipment purchases under an award but elect to waive it only up to a certain dollar value).
(f)
Transfers of funds and subawards.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions for non-construction awards may include prior approval requirements for:
(1) Transfers of funds for participant support costs, as described in 2 CFR 200.308(c)(1)(v).
(2) Subawarding of work under an award, as described in 2 CFR 200.308(c)(1)(vi).
(3) Transfers of funds among direct cost categories, as described in 2 CFR 200.308(e), but the wording in the general terms and conditions must make clear that the prior approval requirement applies only to awards using those terms and conditions if the Federal share of the total value is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold. As a matter of DoD policy, requiring prior approvals for transfers among direct cost categories generally is not appropriate for the general terms and conditions of grants and cooperative agreements that support research.
(g)
Pre-award costs, carry forward of unobligated balances, and no-cost extensions.
(1) A DoD Component's general terms and conditions may authorize recipients to incur project costs up to 90 calendar days prior to the beginning date of the period of performance, at their own risk, as described in 2 CFR 200.308(d)(1). OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.308(d)(4) makes that authorization the default policy for research awards. Therefore, a DoD Component must use this policy in general terms and conditions for research awards unless exceptional circumstances provide the basis for overriding that policy.
(2) If a DoD Component's general terms and conditions are used for awards that have multiple periods of performance, the DoD Component should authorize recipients to carry forward unobligated balances to subsequent periods of performance, as described in 2 CFR 200.308(d)(3), unless there are compelling reasons not to do so.
(3) A DoD Component's general terms and conditions may authorize recipients to initiate one-time extensions in the periods of performance of their awards by up to 12 months, subject to the conditions described in 2 CFR 200.308(d)(2), but only if the DoD Component judges that authorizing no-cost extensions for awards using the general terms and conditions will not cause the DoD Component to fail to comply with DoD funding policies (
e.g.,
the incremental program budgeting and execution policy for research funding) contained in Volume 2A of the DoD Financial Management Regulation, DoD 7000.14-R.
(h)
Award terms and conditions.
Appendix D to this part provides wording for inclusion in Section B of a DoD Component's general terms and conditions in accordance with paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section. Specifically:
(1) In accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions for non-construction awards must include the wording that appendix D provides for paragraphs B.1.a and B.1.i of FMS Article IV and, if there will be cost sharing or matching required under any awards using the general terms and conditions, paragraph B.1.g.
(2) In accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions for research awards must include the wording that appendix D provides for paragraphs B.1.b and B.1.c of FMS Article IV. A DoD Component also may include paragraphs B.1.b and B.1.c in general terms and conditions for other non-construction awards.
(3) In accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions for non-construction awards must include the wording that appendix D provides for paragraph B.1.d of FMS Article IV unless the DoD Component decides to waive any requirements in the applicable cost principles for recipients to obtain prior approval before including
certain types of costs as direct charges to awards. If a DoD Component elects to waive any of those prior approval requirements, it must add wording to paragraph B.1.d to identify the specific types of costs for which recipients need not obtain DoD Component prior approval (thereby leaving in place the other prior approval requirements in the cost principles).
(4) In accordance with paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions for non-construction awards may include the wording that appendix D provides for paragraphs B.1.e, B.1.f, and B.1.h (except as noted for research awards in paragraph (f)(3) of this section) and Section C of FMS Article IV. A DoD Component may modify the wording as specified in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section (
e.g.,
to limit the authorization for pre-award costs in non-construction awards other than research to a period of less than 90 calendar days prior to the beginning date of the period of performance).
(5) If no awards using a DoD Component's general terms and conditions will support non-construction activities, the DoD Component may reserve section B.1 of the wording that appendix D provides for FMS Article IV.
§ 1128.420
Prior approvals for construction activities.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.308(g)(1) through (4) addresses prior approval requirements for revisions of a recipient's budget and program plans under a construction grant or cooperative agreement or construction activities under an award that supports both construction and non-construction activities.
(b)
DoD implementation of the guidance.
DoD implements the guidance in 2 CFR 200.308(g)(1) through (4) through terms and conditions of awards for construction. A DoD Component's general terms and conditions for construction awards may require additional prior approvals for budget and program revisions (
i.e.,
prior approvals other than those authorized by this subpart) only in accordance with the exceptions provisions of 2 CFR 1126.3.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
In a DoD Component's general terms and conditions for construction awards or awards supporting construction activities, the DoD Component:
(1) Must include the wording that appendix D to this part provides for paragraph B.2 of FMS Article IV.
(2) May reserve or remove the wording appendix D to this part provides for paragraph B.1 and Section C of FMS Article IV unless some awards using the general terms and conditions will also support non-construction activities (if the DoD Component elects to remove Section C, it should redesignate Section D in the article as Section C).
§ 1128.425
Additional prior approval for awards that support both non-construction and construction activities.
(a)
OMB guidance.
Guidance on an additional prior approval requirement for grants or cooperative agreements that support both construction and non-construction activities is contained in 2 CFR 200.308(g)(5).
(b)
DoD implementation of the guidance.
DoD implements the guidance in 2 CFR 200.308(g)(5) through terms and conditions for awards that support both non-construction and construction activities.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
If a DoD Component establishes general terms and conditions for awards that support both non-construction and construction activities, the DoD Component may add the prior approval requirement for funding or budget transfers between construction and non-construction activities that is described in OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.308(g)(5). The wording that appendix D to this part provides for Section B of FMS Article IV includes a reserved paragraph B.3 in which the DoD Component may add appropriate wording to include that prior approval requirement.
§ 1128.430
Procedures for prior approvals.
(a)
OMB guidance.
Guidance on procedures related to recipient requests for prior approval is contained in 2 CFR 200.308(h) and (i).
(b)
DoD implementation of the guidance.
DoD implements the guidance in
2 CFR 200.308(h) and (i) for prior approval requests through award terms and conditions.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component must:
(1) Include the wording appendix D to this part provides for paragraph D.1 of FMS Article IV of its general terms and conditions.
(2) Insert appropriate wording in lieu of the reserved paragraph D.2 that appendix D to this part includes in FMS Article IV to specify:
(i) The format the recipient must use when it requests approval for budget revisions. As described in 2 CFR 200.308(h), the award term may allow the recipient to submit a letter of request or otherwise must specify that the recipient use the same format it used for budget information in its application or proposal.
(ii) Any other procedural instructions related to requests for prior approvals for budget or program revisions (
e.g.,
to whom requests must be submitted) that are common to the awards using the general terms and conditions. For procedural instructions that will vary from one award to another, it is appropriate to include wording that points to the award-specific terms and conditions as the source of the information.

# Subpart E—Non-Federal Audits (FMS Article V)
§ 1128.500
Purpose of FMS Article V.
FMS Article V of the general terms and conditions specifies requirements related to audits required under the Single Audit Act, as amended (31 U.S.C., chapter 75). The article thereby implements for grants and cooperative agreements the OMB guidance in Subpart F of 2 CFR part 200.
§ 1128.505
Content of FMS Article V.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must address audit requirements.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording appendix E to this part provides for FMS Article V.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component may reserve Section B of the wording in appendix E if there will be no subawards to for-profit entities under any award using those terms and conditions.

# Subpart F-Cost Sharing or Matching (FMS Article VI)
§ 1128.600
Purpose of FMS Article VI.
FMS Article VI sets forth requirements concerning recipients' cost sharing or matching under awards. It thereby implements OMB guidance in:
(a) 2 CFR 200.306 and 200.308(c)(1)(vii); and
(b) 2 CFR 200.434, in conjunction with FMS Article III in appendix C to this part.
§ 1128.605
Content of FMS Article VI.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions for awards under which there may be required cost sharing or matching must specify the criteria for determining allowability, methods for valuation, and requirements for documentation of cost sharing or matching.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include as FMS Article VI the wording appendix F to this part provides, with any revisions to the wording that are authorized by §§ 1128.610 through 1128.635.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component may reserve FMS Article VI of its general terms and conditions if it determines that there will be no cost sharing or matching required under any of the awards using those terms and conditions.
§ 1128.610
General requirement for cost sharing or matching.
(a)
Requirement.
(1) FMS Article VI of the general terms and conditions must tell a recipient that:
(i) It may find the amount or percentage of cost sharing or matching required under its award in the award cover pages.
(ii) The cost sharing or matching amount or percentage identified in the award includes all required (but not voluntary uncommitted) contributions to the project or program by the recipient and its subrecipients, including any that involve third-party contributions
or donations to the recipient and subrecipients.
(iii) It must obtain the DoD Component's prior approval for any change in the required amount or percentage of cost share or match.
(2) At a DoD Component's option, FMS Article VI also may require a recipient to obtain the DoD Component's prior approval if it wishes to substitute alternative cost sharing or matching contributions in lieu of specific contributions included in the approved budget (
e.g.,
to use a third-party in-kind contribution not included in the approved budget).
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording appendix F to this part provides as Section A of FMS Article VI. A DoD Component may insert wording in lieu of the reserved paragraph A.2.b if it elects to require recipients to obtain prior approval before substituting alternative cost sharing or matching contributions, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
§ 1128.615
General criteria for determining allowability as cost sharing or matching.
(a)
OMB guidance.
The OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.306(b) lists the basic criteria for the allowability of cost sharing or matching under grants and cooperative agreements.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording appendix F to this part provides as Section B of FMS Article VI to specify the allowability of cash or third-party in-kind contributions as cost sharing or matching.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component may reserve paragraph B.4 of Section B of FMS Article VI in its general terms and conditions, or replace it with appropriate alternative wording, if the DoD Component has statutory authority to accept costs reimbursed by other Federal awards as cost sharing or matching under the awards using its general terms and conditions.
§ 1128.620
Allowability of unrecovered indirect costs as cost sharing or matching.
(a)
OMB guidance.
The OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.306(c) provides that unrecovered indirect costs may only be included as part of cost sharing and matching with the prior approval of the Federal awarding agency.
(b)
DoD implementation.
DoD Components must allow any recipient that either has an approved negotiated indirect cost rate or is using the de minimis rate described in 2 CFR 200.414(f) to count unrecovered indirect costs toward any required cost sharing or matching under awards. The basis for this policy is that recipients' indirect costs that are allowable and allocable to DoD projects and programs are legitimate costs of carrying out those projects and programs.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the policy in paragraph (b) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording appendix F to this part provides as Section C of FMS Article VI unless a statute requires otherwise.
§ 1128.625
Allowability of program income as cost sharing or matching.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.307(e)(3) specifies that, with the prior approval of the Federal awarding agency, recipients may use program income to meet cost sharing or matching requirements of their awards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording appendix F to this part provides as Section D of FMS Article VI if, in FMS Article VII of those terms and conditions, the DoD Component specifies that recipients dispose of program income using either:
(i) The cost sharing or matching alternative described in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of § 1128.720; or
(ii) A combination alternative, as described in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of § 1128.720, that includes use of at least some program income as cost sharing or matching.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component may reserve Section D of FMS Article VI if FMS Article VII of those terms and
conditions does not provide that recipients will use any program income as cost sharing or matching.
§ 1128.630
Valuation of services or property contributed or donated by recipients or subrecipients.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.306(d) specifies:
(1) That values for recipients' and subrecipients' contributions of services or property toward cost sharing or matching must be established in accordance with the cost principles in Subpart E of 2 CFR part 200; and
(2) Types of projects or programs under which recipients' or subrecipients' donations of buildings or land are allowable as cost sharing or matching, with the prior approval of the Federal awarding agency, and how the donations are to be valued in those cases.
(b)
DoD implementation.
DoD implements the guidance in 2 CFR 200.306(d) through award terms and conditions, with the following clarifications:
(1)
Cost principles to be used for valuation.
(i) Values for recipients' and subrecipients' contributions of services or property toward cost sharing or matching must be established in accordance with the cost principles applicable to the entity making the contribution.
(ii) Consistent with the cost principles, what generally should be charged to awards for real property and equipment is depreciation rather than allowing a recipient's or subrecipient's donation of the property (
i.e.,
counting the full value of the property toward cost sharing or matching). However, depreciation included in a recipient's or subrecipient's indirect costs is not appropriate for counting as cost sharing or matching under an individual award.
(2)
Donations of property to projects or programs under awards.
(i) In addition to donations of buildings or land described in 2 CFR 200.306(d), recipients and subrecipients may, with the prior approval of the DoD Component, donate other capital assets described in the cost principles in 2 CFR 200.439(b)(1) through (3). The basis for clarifying that recipients may donate other capital assets to projects or programs under awards is that, with the DoD Component's approval:
(A) Capital expenditures to acquire those types of capital assets are allowable as direct charges to awards; and
(B) The costs therefore satisfy the allowability criterion in 2 CFR 200.306(b)(4) and can qualify as cost sharing or matching if they meet the other criteria listed in 2 CFR 200.306(b).
(ii) However, when there are alternative ways for recipients to meet requirements for cost sharing or matching, DoD Components should not approve donations of capital assets to projects or programs under awards. Inclusion of the full value of a donated asset as project costs in the approved budget of an award is analogous to inclusion of the acquisition cost for an asset that is purchased under the award. Through the donation, the Federal Government acquires an interest in the donated asset that must be resolved at time of disposition of the asset, which is best avoided if possible.
(iii) Whenever a DoD Component permits a recipient to donate a capital asset to a project or program under an award, the DoD Component should inform the cognizant Federal agency that negotiates the indirect cost rate for that recipient. Doing so enables the cognizant agency to take the donation into account when it establishes the recipient's indirect cost rate, given that the recipient may not include depreciation for the donated asset as indirect costs that enter into the computation of that rate.
(c)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix F to this part provides as Section E of FMS Article VI.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions may reserve paragraph E.2 of the wording appendix F to this part provides if the DoD Component does not allow recipients to donate buildings, land, or other capital assets to projects or programs under awards using those terms and conditions.
§ 1128.635
Valuation of third-party in-kind contributions.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.306(e) through (j) and 2 CFR 200.434(b) through (g) specifies how to value and document various types of
third-party in-kind contributions for cost sharing or matching purposes.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
To implement the OMB guidance described in paragraph (a) of this section as it applies to valuation and documentation of third-party in-kind contributions, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording Section VI of appendix F to this part provides as Section F of FMS Article VI.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions may reserve any paragraph of the wording appendix F to this part provides for Section F of FMS Article VI if the DoD Component determines that there will be no possibility of third-party in-kind contributions under awards using those terms and conditions.

# Subpart G-Program Income (FMS Article VII)
§ 1128.700
Purpose of FMS Article VII.
FMS Article VII of the general terms and conditions specifies requirements for program income that recipients earn. The article thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.80 and 200.307.
§ 1128.705
Content of FMS Article VII.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must address the kinds of income included as program income, the way or ways in which a recipient may use it, the duration of the recipient's accountability for it, and related matters.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include as FMS Article VII the wording appendix G to this part provides, unless, as authorized by §§ 1128.710 through 1128.725, there are revisions to the wording of Sections A and E of the article or Section D is reserved.
§ 1128.710
What program income includes.
(a)
OMB guidance.
Under the definition of “program income” at 2 CFR 200.80 and related OMB guidance at 2 CFR 200.307, an agency's regulations or terms and conditions of grants and cooperative agreements may include as program income:
(1) Rebates, credits, discounts, and interest earned on any of them; and
(2) Taxes, special assessments, levies, fines and other similar revenue raised by a governmental recipient.
(b)
DoD implementation.
Unless a statute or program regulation adopted in the Code of Federal Regulations after opportunity for public comment specifies otherwise, each DoD Component must exclude the types of income listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section from program income for which recipients are accountable to the Federal Government.
(c)
Award terms and conditions
— (1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a DoD Component must use the wording provided in appendix G to this part as Section A of FMS Article VII in its general terms and conditions. Doing so excludes the types of income listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section from program income for which recipients are accountable to the Federal Government.
(2)
Exceptions.
If a DoD Component has a statutory or regulatory basis for including either or both types of income described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, it may do so by appropriately revising the wording appendix G provides for Section A of FMS Article VII. For example, to include as program income:
(i) Rebates, credits, discounts, and interest earned on them, a DoD Component would reserve paragraph A.3.c and insert the wording of that paragraph as a new paragraph at the end of section A.2, thereby adding them to the list of items included as program income subject to FMS Article VII.
(ii) Taxes, special assessments, levies, fines and other similar revenue raised by a governmental recipient, a DoD Component would reserve paragraph A.3.d and insert that wording as a new paragraph at the end of section A.2, thereby adding them to the list of items included as program income subject to FMS Article VII.
§ 1128.715
Recipient obligations for license fees and royalties.
(a)
Policy.
Unless a statute or program regulation adopted in the Code of Federal Regulations after opportunity for public comment provides otherwise, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions may not specify that recipients have obligations to the Federal Government with respect to program income from license fees and royalties for patents or patent applications, copyrights, trademarks, or inventions produced under DoD awards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must implement the policy in paragraph (a) of this section by including the wording provided in appendix G to this part as Section D of FMS Article VII.
(2)
Exception.
If a DoD Component has a statutory or regulatory basis for establishing recipient obligations for the license fees and royalties described in paragraph (a) of this section, it may reserve Section D of FMS Article VII in its general terms and conditions.
§ 1128.720
Program income use.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.307(e) identifies alternative ways that a Federal agency might specify that recipients use program income they earn.
(b)
DoD implementation.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify how recipients are to use program income under awards using those terms and conditions.
(1) The terms and conditions may specify one of the following ways for recipients to use program income:
(i)
Addition.
A recipient under this alternative adds program income to the total amount of the approved budget, which consists of the Federal share of funding and any required matching or cost sharing.
(ii)
Deduction.
A recipient using this alternative subtracts program income from total allowable costs to determine net allowable costs for purposes of determining the Federal share of funding and any required cost sharing or matching.
(iii)
Cost sharing or matching.
Under this alternative, a recipient counts program income toward its required cost sharing or matching.
(iv)
Combination.
The fourth alternative is a combination of any of the three alternatives described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. For example, an agency might specify one alternative to be used for program income up to a dollar limit and a second alternative for any program income beyond that amount.
(2) For research awards, absent compelling reasons to do otherwise for a specific set of general terms and conditions, a DoD Component must specify the addition alternative described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(3) For general terms and conditions of other awards, a Component may specify any of the alternatives described in paragraph (a) of this section. However, the cost sharing or matching alternative is best used as part of a combination alternative, as described in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, unless the DoD Component knows at the time awards are made how much program income recipients will earn in relation to the amounts of their required cost sharing or matching.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
(1)
Default—addition alternative.
In accordance with the DoD implementation in paragraph (b) of this section, a DoD Component must use the wording provided in appendix G to this part as Section E of FMS Article VII in:
(i) Research awards; and
(ii) Other awards for which it elects to specify the addition alternative for use of program income.
(2)
Deduction alternative.
A DoD Component electing to specify the deduction alternative for use of program income must modify the wording appendix G to this part provides for Section E by:
(i) Substituting the following wording for the wording of paragraph E.1: “1. You must use any program income that you earn during the period of performance under this award as a deduction from the total approved budget of this award. The program income must be used for the purposes and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award.”
(ii) Including an additional paragraph E.4, such as the following, to inform recipients how the award will change if program income is deducted: “If you report program income on the Federal Financial Report (SF-425), we will recalculate the Federal share of the budget and the non-Federal share if there is one. We also will modify the award to reflect the recalculated share or shares and the amount of program income you must spend on the project, which is the difference between the originally approved and recalculated budget amounts.”
(3)
Cost-sharing or matching alternative.
A DoD Component electing to specify the cost-sharing or matching alternative for use of program income must replace the wording appendix G to this part provides for Section E with the following wording: “You must use any program income that you earn during the period of performance under this award to meet any cost-sharing or matching requirement under this award. The program income must be used for the purposes and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award.”
(4)
A combination of alternatives.
A DoD Component electing to specify some combination of addition, deduction, and cost-sharing or matching alternatives must use wording in Section E of FMS Article VII that specifies requirements for each alternative in the combination that is consistent with the requirements specified for that alternative in paragraphs (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
§ 1128.725
Program income after the period of performance.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.307(f) provides that an agency may specify in agency regulations, grant or cooperative agreement terms and conditions, or agreements negotiated with recipients during the closeout process that a recipient is accountable to the Federal Government for program income earned after the end of the period of performance.
(b)
DoD implementation.
A DoD Component should rarely, if ever, establish a requirement for a recipient to be accountable to the Federal Government for program income earned after the end of the period of performance.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include as Section F of FMS Article VII the wording for that section that is provided in appendix G to this part. That wording specifies that recipients are not accountable to the Federal Government for program income earned after the end of the performance period. If an exception is warranted for an individual award, the exception is properly addressed at the time of award in the award-specific terms and conditions.
Pt. 1128, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1128—Terms and Conditions for FMS Article I, “Financial Management System Standards”
Unless any part of this appendix is reserved, as provided in § 1128.105, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the following wording for FMS Article I.

# FMS Article I. Financial Management System Standards. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. System standard for States.
As a State, you must expend and account for funds under this award in accordance with:
1. Applicable State laws; and
2. To the extent they comply with the requirements of Section B of this Article, your procedures for expending and accounting for your own State funds.
Section B. System standards for all recipients.
Your financial management system must provide for:
1. Inclusion, in your accounts, of the following information about each DoD grant or cooperative agreement that you receive:
a. That you received the award from DoD;
b. The number and title listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance for the DoD program under which the award was made;
c. The DoD award number; and
d. The year (your fiscal year) in which you received the award.
2. Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial results of the award needed to comply with financial and programmatic reporting requirements that are specified in REP Articles I and II of these general terms and conditions, as supplemented by any award-specific terms and conditions of this award concerning reporting requirements. If you are asked at any time under this award to report financial information on an accrual basis, you:
a. Need not establish an accrual accounting system if you maintain your records on a different basis; and
b. May develop the accrual data based on an analysis of the data you have on hand.
3. Records that identify adequately the sources of funds for all activities funded by DoD awards, including any required cost sharing or matching, and the application of those funds. This includes funding authorizations; your obligations and expenditures of the funds; unobligated balances; property and other assets under the award; program income; and interest.
4. Effective control over, and accountability for, all funds, property, and other assets under this award. You must adequately safeguard all assets and ensure they are used solely for authorized purposes (see Section C of this article for additional requirements concerning internal controls).
5. Comparison of expenditures under this award for project or program purposes with amounts in the approved budget for those purposes.
6. The ability to relate financial data to performance accomplishments under this award if you are required to do so by the programmatic reporting requirements in REP Article I of these general terms and conditions, as supplemented by any award-specific terms and conditions of this award concerning reporting requirements.
7. Written procedures:
a. To implement requirements specified in FMS Article II, “Payments;”
b. For determining the allowability of costs, which for this award are determined in accordance with FMS Article III, “Allowable costs, period of availability of funds, and fee or profit,” of these general terms and conditions, as supplemented by any award-specific terms and conditions of this award that relate to allowability of costs.
Section C. Internal controls.
Your system of internal controls must conform to OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.303. With respect to paragraph (e) of 2 CFR 200.303, your internal control system must include measures to safeguard any information that Federal statute, Executive order, or regulation requires to be protected (
e.g.,
personally identifiable or export controlled information), whether generated under the award or provided to you and identified as being subject to protection.
Pt. 1128, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1128—Terms and Conditions for FMS Article II, “Payments”
Unless a DoD Component adds, deletes, or modifies wording, as permitted by §§ 1128.210 through 1128.220, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the following wording for FMS Article II.

# FMS Article II. Payments. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Awards to States.
If the award-specific terms and conditions of this award do not identify it as an award subject to Subpart A of 31 CFR part 205 (Department of the Treasury regulations implementing the Cash Management Improvement Act), then this award is subject to Subpart B of that part. Consistent with Subpart B of 31 CFR part 205:
1.
Payment method, timing, and amounts. You must:
a. Minimize the time between your receipt of a payment under this award and your disbursement of those funds for program purposes.
b. Limit the amount of each advance payment request to the minimum amount you need to meet your actual, immediate cash requirements for carrying out the program or project.
c. Submit each advance payment request approximately 10 days before you anticipate disbursing the requested amount for program purposes, so that your receipt of the funds will be as close in time as is administratively feasible to your actual cash outlay for direct project costs and the proportionate share of any allowable indirect costs.
2.
Interest.
Unlike awards subject to Subpart A of 31 CFR part 205, neither you nor we will incur any interest liability due to a difference in timing between your receipt of payments under this award and your disbursement of those funds for project or program purposes.
Section B. Awards to institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, local governments, and Indian tribes.
1.
Payment method.
Unless the award-specific terms and conditions of this award provide otherwise, you are authorized to request advance payments under this award. That authorization is contingent on your continuing to maintain, or demonstrating the willingness to maintain, written procedures that minimize the time elapsing between your receipt of each payment and your disbursement of the funds for program purposes. Note that you are not required to request advance payments and may instead, at your option, request reimbursements of funds after you disburse them for project or program purposes.
2.
Amounts requested.
You must:
a. Limit the amount of any advance payment request to the minimum amount needed to meet your actual, immediate cash requirements for carrying out the purpose of the approved program or project, including direct project costs and a proportionate share of any allowable indirect costs.
b. Exclude from any payment request amounts you are withholding from payments
to contractors to assure satisfactory completion of the work. You may request those amounts when you make the payments to the contractors or to escrow accounts established to ensure satisfactory completion of the work.
c. Exclude from any payment request amounts from any of the following sources that are available to you for program purposes under this award: program income, including repayments to a revolving fund; rebates; refunds; contract settlements; audit recoveries; and interest earned on any of those funds. You must disburse those funds for program purposes before requesting additional funds from us.
3.
Timing of requests.
For any advance payment you request, you should submit the request approximately 10 days before you anticipate disbursing the requested amount for project or program purposes. With time for agency processing of the request, that should result in payment as close as is administratively feasible to your actual disbursements for project or program purposes.
4.
Frequency of requests.
You may request payments as often as you wish unless you have been granted a waiver from requirements to receive payments by electronic funds transfer (EFT). If you have been granted a waiver from EFT requirements, the award-specific terms and conditions of this award specify the frequency with which you may submit payment requests.
5.
Withholding of payments.
We will withhold payments for allowable costs under the award at any time during the period of performance only if one or more of the following applies:
a. We suspend either payments or the award, or disallow otherwise allowable costs, as a remedy under OAR Article III due to your material failure to comply with Federal statutes, regulations, or the terms and conditions of this award. If we suspend payments and not the award, we will release withheld payments upon your subsequent compliance. If we suspend the award, then amounts of payments are subject to adjustment in accordance with the terms and conditions of OAR Article III.
b. You are delinquent in a debt to the United States as defined in OMB Circular A-129, “Policies for Federal Credit Programs and Non-Tax Receivables,” in which case we may, after reasonable notice, inform you that we will not make any further payments for costs you incurred after a specified date until you correct the conditions or liquidate the indebtedness to the Federal Government.
c. The award-specific terms and conditions of this award include additional requirements that provide for withholding of payments based on conditions identified during our pre-award risk evaluation, in which case you should have been notified about the nature of those conditions and the actions needed to remove the additional requirements.
6.
Depository requirements.
a. There are no eligibility requirements for depositories you use for funds you receive under this award.
b. You are not required to deposit funds you receive under this award in a depository account separate from accounts in which you deposit other funds. However, FMS Article I requires that you be able to account for the receipt, obligation, and expenditure of all funds under this award.
c. You must deposit any advance payments of funds you receive under this award in insured accounts whenever possible and, unless any of the following apply, you must deposit them in interest-bearing accounts:
i. You receive a total of less than $120,000 per year under Federal grants and cooperative agreements.
ii. You would not expect the best reasonably available interest-bearing account to earn interest in excess of $500 per year on your cash balances of advance payments under Federal grants and cooperative agreements.
iii. The best reasonably available interest-bearing account would require you to maintain an average or minimum balance higher than it would be feasible for you to do within your expected Federal and non-Federal cash balances.
iv. A foreign government or banking system precludes your use of interest-bearing accounts.
d. You may retain for administrative expenses up to $500 per year of interest that you earn in the aggregate on advance payments you receive under this award and other Federal grants and cooperative agreements. You must remit annually the rest of the interest to the Department of Health and Human Services, Payment Management System, using the procedures set forth in OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(9).
Section C. Electronic funds transfer and other payment procedural instructions or information.
1.
Electronic funds transfer.
Unless the award-specific terms and conditions of this award provide otherwise, you will receive payments under this award by electronic funds transfer.
2. [Reserved]
Pt. 1128, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 1128—Terms and Conditions for FMS Article III, “Allowable Costs, Period of Availability of Funds, and Fee or Profit”
Unless a DoD Component reserves sections or paragraphs of this article, as permitted by §§ 1128.310 through 1128.325, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the following wording for FMS Article III.

# FMS Article III. Allowable Costs, Period of Availability of Funds, and Fee or Profit (December 2014)
Section A. Allowable costs.
This section, with the clarification provided in Section B, specifies which Federal cost principles must be used in determining the allowability of costs charged to this award, a subrecipient's costs charged to any cost-type subaward that you make under this award, and a contractor's costs charged to any cost-type procurement transaction into which you enter under this award. These cost principles also govern the allowable costs that you or a subrecipient of a subaward at any tier below this award may consider when establishing the amount of any fixed-amount subaward or fixed-price procurement transaction at the next lower tier. The set of cost principles to be used in each case depends on the type of entity incurring the cost under the award, subaward, or contract.
1.
General case.
If you, your subrecipient, or your contractor is:
a.
An institution of higher education
, the allowability of costs must be determined in accordance with provisions of Subpart E of OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 200 other than 2 CFR 200.400(g), supplemented by appendix III to that part.
b.
A hospital
, the allowability of costs must be determined in accordance with provisions of appendix IX to 2 CFR part 200, which currently specifies the cost principles in appendix IX to 45 CFR part 75 as the applicable cost principles.
c.
A nonprofit organization other than a hospital or institution of higher education
, the allowability of costs must be determined in accordance with provisions of Subpart E of OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 200 other than 2 CFR 200.400(g), supplemented by appendices IV and VIII to that part. In accordance with guidance in 2 CFR 200.401(c), a nonprofit organization listed in appendix VIII to 2 CFR part 200 is subject to the cost principles for for-profit entities specified in paragraph 1.e of this section.
d.
A State, local government, or Indian tribe
, the allowability of costs must be determined in accordance with applicable provisions of Subpart E of OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 200 other than 2 CFR 200.400(g), supplemented by appendices V through VII to that part.
e.
A for-profit entity (other than a hospital) or a nonprofit organization listed in appendix VIII to 2 CFR part 200:
i. The allowability of costs must be determined in accordance with:
(A) The cost principles for commercial organizations in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) at Subpart 31.2 of 48 CFR part 31, as supplemented by provisions of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) at Subpart 231.2 of 48 CFR part 231; and
(B) For a for-profit entity, the additional provisions on allowability of audit costs, in 32 CFR 34.16(f).
ii. The indirect cost rate to use in that determination is:
(A) The for-profit entity's federally negotiated indirect cost rate if it has one.
(B) Subject to negotiation between you and the for-profit entity if it does not have a federally negotiated indirect cost rate. The rate that you negotiate may provide for reimbursement only of costs that are allowable in accordance with the cost principles specified in paragraph A.1.e.i of this article.
2.
Exception.
You may use your own cost principles in determining the allowability of a contractor's costs charged to a cost-type procurement transaction under this award—or in pricing for a fixed-price contract based on estimated costs—as long as your cost principles comply with the Federal cost principles that paragraph A.1 of this section identifies as applicable to the contractor.
Section B. Clarifications concerning charges for professional journal publications.
For an entity that Section A of this article makes subject to the cost principles in Subpart E of 2 CFR part 200:
1. Costs of publishing in professional journals are allowable under 2 CFR 200.461(b) only if they are consistently applied across the organization. An organization may not charge costs of journal publications as direct costs to this award if it charges any of the same type of costs for other journal publications as indirect costs.
2. “Costs of publication or sharing of research results” in 2 CFR 200.461(b)(3) are the “charges for professional journal publications” described in 2 CFR 200.461(b) and subject to the conditions of 2 CFR 200.461(b)(1) and (2).
Section C. Period of availability of funds.
You may charge to this award only:
1. Allowable costs incurred during the period of performance specified in this award, including any subsequent amendments to it;
2. Any pre-award costs that you are authorized (by either the terms and conditions of FMS Article IV or the DoD awarding official) to incur prior to the start of the period of performance, at your own risk, for purposes of the project or program under this award; and
3. Costs of publishing in professional journals incurred after the period of performance, as permitted under 2 CFR 200.461(b)(3), if:
a. We receive the request for payment for such costs no later than the date on which REP Article II requires you to submit the final financial report to us (or, if we grant your request for an extension of the due date, that later date on which the report is due); and
b. Your reported expenditures on the final financial report include the amount you disbursed for those costs.
Section D. Fee or profit.
1. You may not receive any fee or profit under this award.
2. You may not use funds available to you under this award to pay fee or profit to an entity of any type to which you make a subaward.
3. You may pay fee or profit to an entity with which you enter into a procurement transaction to purchase goods or general support services for your use in carrying out the project or program under the award.
Pt. 1128, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 1128—Terms and Conditions for FMS Article IV, “Revision of Budget and Program Plans”
Unless a DoD Component reserves a section or paragraph or adds or modifies wording, as permitted by §§ 1128.410 through 1128.430, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the following wording for FMS Article IV.

# FMS Article IV. Revision of Budget and Program Plans (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Approved budget.
The approved budget of this award:
1. Is the most recent version of the budget that you submitted, and we approved (either at the time of the initial award or a more recent amendment), to summarize planned expenditures for project or program purposes.
2. Includes all Federal funding that we make available to you under this award to use for project or program purposes and any cost sharing or matching that you are required to provide under this award for those same purposes.
Section B. Revisions requiring prior approval.
1.
Non-construction activities.
You must request prior approval from us for any of the following program or budget revisions in non-construction activities:
a. A change in the scope or objective of the project or program under this award, even if there is no associated budget revision that requires our prior approval.
b. A change in a key person identified in the award cover pages.
c. The approved principal investigator's or project director's disengagement from the project for more than three months, or a 25 percent reduction in his or her time devoted to the project.
d. The inclusion of direct costs that require prior approval in accordance with the applicable cost principles, as identified in FMS Article III.
e. The transfer to other categories of expense of funds included in the approved budget for participant support costs, as defined at 2 CFR 200.75.
f. A subaward to another entity under which it will perform a portion of the substantive project or program under the award, if it was not included in the approved budget. This does not apply to your contracts for acquisition of supplies, equipment, or general support services you need to carry out the project or program.
g. Any change in the cost sharing or matching you provide under the award, as included in the approved budget, for which FMS Article VI requires prior approval.
h. A transfer of funds among direct cost categories or programs, functions, and activities, if the Federal share of the total value for your award exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold and the cumulative amount of the transfers exceeds or is expected to exceed 10 percent of the approved budget.
i. The need arises for additional Federal funds to complete the project or program.
2.
Construction activities.
You must request prior approval from us for any of the following program or budget revisions in construction activities:
a. A change in the scope or objective of the project or program under this award, even if there is no associated budget revision that requires our prior approval.
b. The need arises for additional Federal funds to complete the project or program.
c. The inclusion of direct costs that require prior approval in accordance with the applicable cost principles, as identified in FMS Article III.
3.
Funding transfers between construction and non-construction activities.
[Reserved]
Section C. Pre-award costs, carry forward of unobligated balances, and one-time no-cost extensions.
You are authorized, without requesting prior approval from us, to:
1. Charge to this award after you receive it pre-award costs that you incurred, at your own risk, up to 90 calendar days before the start date of the period of performance, as long as they are costs that would be allowable charges to the project or program under the terms and conditions of FMS Article III if they were incurred during the period of performance.
2. Carry forward an unobligated balance to a subsequent period of performance under this award.
3. Initiate a one-time extension of the period of performance by up to 12 months, as long as:
a. You notify us in writing with the supporting reasons and revised end date of the period of performance at least 10 calendar days before the current end date.
b. The extension does not require any additional Federal funding.
c. The extension does not involve any change in the scope or objectives of the project or program.
Section D. Procedures.
1. We will review each request you submit for prior approval for a budget or program change and, within 30 calendar days of our receipt of your request, we will respond to you in writing to either:
a. Notify you whether your request is approved; or
b. Inform you that we still are considering the request, in which case we will let you know when you may expect our decision.
2. [Reserved]
Pt. 1128, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 1128—Terms and Conditions for FMS Article V, “Non-Federal Audits”
Unless a DoD Component reserves Section B, as permitted by § 1128.605, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for FMS Article V.

# FMS Article V. Non-Federal Audits (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Requirements for entities subject to the Single Audit Act.
You and each subrecipient under this award that is an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe must comply with the audit requirements specified in Subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, which is the OMB implementation of the Single Audit Act, as amended (31 U.S.C. chapter 75).
Section B. Requirements for for-profit entities.
Any for-profit entity that receives a subaward from you under this award is subject to the audit requirements specified in 32 CFR 34.16. Your subaward terms and conditions will require the subrecipient to provide the reports to you if it is willing to do so, so that you can resolve audit findings that pertain specifically to your subaward (
e.g.,
disallowance of costs). If the for-profit entity is unwilling to agree to provide the auditor's report to you, contact the grants officer for this award to discuss an alternative approach for carrying out audit oversight of the subaward. If the grants officer does not provide an alternative approach within 30 days of receiving your request, you may determine an approach to ensure the for-profit subrecipient's compliance with the subaward terms and conditions, as described in OMB guidance at 2 CFR 200.501(h).
Pt. 1128, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 1128—Terms and Conditions for FMS Article VI, “Cost Sharing or Matching”
Unless a DoD Component reserves FMS Article VI in its entirety, reserves one or more paragraphs within sections of the article, or includes added or alternate wording, as permitted by §§ 1128.610 through 1128.635, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for FMS Article VI.

# FMS Article VI. Cost Sharing or Matching (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Required cost sharing or matching
.
1. If any cost sharing or matching is required under this award, the total amount or percentage required is shown in the award cover pages and included in the approved budget. That cost sharing or matching includes all:
a. Cash contributions to the project or program either made by or through (if made by a third party) you and any subrecipients.
b. Third-party in-kind contributions to the project or program.
2. You must obtain our prior approval if you wish to:
a. Change the amount or percentage of cost sharing or matching required under this award.
b. [Reserved]
Section B. Allowability as cost sharing or matching.
Each cash or third party in-kind contribution toward any cost sharing or matching required under this award, whether put forward by you or a subrecipient under a subaward that you make, is allowable as cost sharing or matching if:
1. You (or the subrecipient, if it is a subrecipient contribution) maintain records from which one may verify that the contribution was made to the project or program and, if it is a third-party in-kind contribution, its value.
2. The contribution is not counted as cost sharing or matching for any other Federal award.
3. The contribution is:
a. Allowable under the cost principles applicable to you (or the subrecipient, if it is a subrecipient contribution) under FMS Article III of these terms and conditions; and
b. Allocable to the project or program and reasonable.
4. The Government does not pay for the contribution through another Federal award, unless that award is under a program that has a Federal statute authorizing application of that program's Federal funds to other Federal programs' cost sharing or matching requirements.
5. The value of the contribution is not reimbursed by the Federal share of this award as either a direct or indirect cost.
6. The contribution conforms to the other terms and conditions of this award, including the award-specific terms and conditions.
Section C. Allowability of unrecovered indirect costs as cost sharing or matching.
You may use your own or a subrecipient's unrecovered indirect costs as cost sharing or matching under this award. Unrecovered indirect costs means the difference between the amount of indirect costs charged to the award and the amount that you and any subrecipients could have charged in accordance with your respective approved indirect cost rates,
whether those rates are negotiated or de minimis (as described in 2 CFR 200.414(f)).
Section D. Allowability of program income as cost sharing or matching.
If FMS Article VII of these general terms and conditions or the award-specific terms and conditions of this award specify that you are to use some or all of the program income you earn to meet cost-sharing or matching requirements under the award, then program income is allowable as cost sharing or matching to the extent specified in those award terms and conditions.
Section E. Valuation of services or property that you or subrecipients contribute or donate.
You must establish values for services or property contributed or donated toward cost sharing or matching by you or subrecipients in accordance with the provisions of this section. These contributions or donations are distinct from third-party in-kind contributions to you or subrecipients, which are addressed in Section F of this article.
1.
Usual valuation of services or property that you or subrecipients contribute or donate.
Values established for contributions of services or property by you or a subrecipient must be the amounts allowable in accordance with the cost principles applicable to the entity making the contribution (
i.e.,
you or the subrecipient), as identified in FMS Article III. For property, that generally is depreciation.
2.
Needed approvals for, and valuation of, property that you or subrecipients donate.
a.
Types of property that may be donated.
i.
Buildings or land.
If the purposes of this award include construction, facilities acquisition, or long-term use of real property, you may donate buildings or land to the project if you obtain our prior approval. Donation of property to the project, as described in PROP Article I, means counting the value of the property toward cost sharing or matching, rather than charging depreciation.
ii.
Other capital assets.
If you obtain our prior approval, you may donate to the project other capital assets identified in 2 CFR 200.439(b)(1) through (3).
b.
Usual valuation of donated property.
Unless you obtain our approval as described in paragraph E.2.c of this article, the value for the donated property must be the lesser of:
i. The value of the remaining life of the property recorded in your accounting records at the time of donation, or
ii. The current fair market value.
c.
Approval needed for alternative valuation of property.
If you obtained our approval in the approved budget, you may count as cost sharing or matching the current fair market value of the donated property even if it exceeds the value of the remaining life of the property recorded in your accounting records at the time of donation.
d.
Federal interest in donated property.
Donating buildings, land, or other property to the project, rather than charging depreciation, results in a Federal interest in the property in accordance with PROP Article I of these terms and conditions.
Section F. Valuation of third-party in-kind contributions.
1.
General.
If a third party furnishes goods or services to you or subrecipients that are to be counted toward cost sharing or matching under this award, the entity to which the third party furnishes the goods or services (
i.e.,
you or a subrecipient) must document the fair market value of those in-kind contributions and, to the extent feasible, support those values using the same methods the entity uses internally.
2.
Valuation of third-party services.
You must establish values for third-party volunteer services and services of third parties' employees furnished to you or subrecipients as follows:
a.
Volunteer services.
Volunteer services furnished by third-party professional and technical personnel, consultants, and other skilled and unskilled labor must be valued in accordance with 2 CFR 200.306(e).
b.
Services of third parties' employees.
When a third-party organization furnishes the services of its employees to you or a subrecipient, values for the contributions must be established in accordance with 2 CFR 200.306(f).
c.
Additional requirement for donations to nonprofit organizations.
For volunteer services or services of third parties' employees furnished to a nonprofit organization:
i. OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.434(e) also applies and may require the nonprofit organization to allocate a proportionate share of its applicable indirect costs to the donated services.
ii. The indirect costs that the nonprofit organization allocates to the donated services in that case must be considered project costs and may be either reimbursed under the award or counted toward required cost sharing or matching, but not both.
3.
Valuation of third-party property.
You must establish values for third-party property furnished to you or subrecipients as follows:
a.
Supplies donated by third parties.
When a third-party organization donates supplies (
e.g.,
office, laboratory, workshop, or classroom supplies), the value that may be counted toward cost sharing or matching may not exceed the fair market value of the supplies at the time of donation.
b.
Equipment, buildings, or land donated by third parties.
i. The value of third-party donations of equipment, buildings, or land that may be counted toward cost sharing or matching when the third party transferred title to you or a subrecipient depends on the purpose of the award in accordance with the following:
(A) If one of the purposes of the award is to assist you or the subrecipient in the acquisition of equipment, buildings, or land, you may count the aggregate fair market value of the donated property toward cost sharing or matching.
(B) If the award's purposes instead include only the support of activities that require the use of equipment, buildings, or land, you may only charge depreciation unless you obtain our prior approval to count as cost sharing or matching the fair market value of equipment or other capital assets and fair rental charges for land.
ii. The values of the donated property must be determined in accordance with the usual accounting policies of the entity to which the third party transferred title to the property, with the qualifications specified in 2 CFR 200.306(i)(1) and (2) for donated land and buildings and donated equipment, respectively.
c.
Use of space donated by third parties.
If a third party makes space available for use by you or a subrecipient, the value that you may count toward cost sharing or matching may not exceed the fair rental value of comparable space as established by an independent appraisal, as described in 2 CFR 200.306(i)(3).
d.
Equipment loaned by third parties.
If a third party loans equipment for use by you or a subrecipient, the value that you may count toward cost sharing or matching may not exceed its fair rental value.
Pt. 1128, App. G

# Appendix G to Part 1128—Terms and Conditions for FMS Article VII, “Program Income”
Unless a DoD Component revises the wording of Section A or E or reserves Section D, as permitted by §§ 1128.710 through 1128.725, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for FMS Article VII.

# FMS Article VII. Program Income (December 2014)
Section A. Definition.
The term “program income” as used in this award:
1. Is gross income that:
a. You earn that is directly generated by a supported activity or earned as a result of this award; or
b. A subrecipient earns as a result of a subaward you make under this award.
2. Includes, but is not limited to, income earned under this award from:
a. Fees for services performed;
b. The use or rental of real or personal property acquired under any Federal award and currently administered under this award;
c. The sale of commodities or items fabricated under this award;
d. License fees and royalties on patents and copyrights; and
e. Payments of principal and interest on loans made with Federal award funds.
3. Does not include for purposes of this award any:
a. Interest earned on advance payments, disposition of which is addressed in FMS Article II;
b. Proceeds from the sale of real property, equipment or supplies, which is addressed in PROP Articles III and IV;
c. Rebates, credits, discounts, and interest earned on any of them; and
d. Governmental revenues, including any taxes, special assessments, levies, fines and similar revenues you raise.
Section B. Encouragement to earn program income.
You are encouraged to earn program income under this award when doing so does not interfere with the program or project the award supports.
Section C. Costs of generating program income.
You may deduct costs incidental to the generation of program income from the amount that you use in accordance with Section E of this Article, as long as those costs are not charged to this award (which includes their being counted toward any cost sharing or matching you are required to provide).
Section D. License fees and royalties.
You have no obligations to the Federal Government with respect to program income earned under this award from license fees and royalties for patents or patent applications, copyrights, trademarks, or inventions developed or produced under the award.
Section E. Use of program income.
1. You must use any program income that you earn during the period of performance under this award to increase the amount of the award (the sum of the Federal share and any cost sharing or matching you are required to provide), thereby increasing the amount budgeted for the project. The program income must be used for the purposes and under the terms and conditions of the award.
2. Your use of the additional funding is subject to the terms and conditions of this award, including:
a. FMS Article II concerning your use of balances of program income before you request additional funds from us; and
b. FMS Article III concerning allowability of costs for which the funds may be used.
3. You must report on each Federal Financial Report (SF-425) that you submit in accordance with REP Article II the program income that you earn and any that you use during the reporting period covered by that SF-425.
Section F. Duration of accountability for program income.
The requirements concerning disposition of program income in Section E of this Article apply only to program income
you earn during the period of performance. There are no requirements under this award applicable to program income you earn after the end of the period of performance.
Pt. 1130

# PART 1130—PROPERTY ADMINISTRATION: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Sec.
1130.1
Purpose of this part.
1130.2
Applicability of this part.
1130.3
Exceptions from requirements of this part.
1130.4
Organization of this part.

# Subpart A—Title to Property (PROP Article I)
1130.100
Purpose of PROP Article I.
1130.105
Title to property acquired under awards.
1130.110
Property trust relationship.
1130.115
Title to federally owned property.
1130.120
Federal interest in donated property.
1130.125
Federal interest in property improved under awards.

# Subpart B—Property Management System (PROP Article II)
1130.200
Purpose of PROP Article II.
1130.205
Insurance coverage for real property and equipment.
1130.210
Other property management system standards for States.
1130.215
Other property management system standards for institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, local governments, and Indian tribes.

# Subpart C—Use and Disposition of Real Property (PROP Article III)
1130.300
Purpose of PROP Article III.
1130.305
Use of real property.
1130.310
Disposition of real property.

# Subpart D—Use and Disposition of Equipment and Supplies (PROP Article IV)
1130.400
Purpose of PROP Article IV.
1130.405
Property subject to PROP Article IV.
1130.410
Requirements for a State's use and disposition of equipment.
1130.415
Use of equipment by an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe.
1130.420
Disposition of equipment by an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe.
1130.425
Use and disposition of supplies.

# Subpart E—Use and Disposition of Federally Owned Property (PROP Article V)
1130.500
Purpose of PROP Article V.
1130.505
Content of PROP Article V.

# Subpart F—Intangible Property (PROP Article VI)
1130.600
Purpose of PROP Article VI.
1130.605
Copyrights asserted in works developed or otherwise acquired under awards.
1130.610
Inventions developed under awards.
1130.615
Data produced under awards.
1130.620
Intangible property acquired, but not developed or produced, under awards.
Appendix A to Part 1130—Terms and conditions for PROP Article I, “Title to property”
Appendix B to Part 1130—Terms and conditions for PROP Article II, “Property management system”
Appendix C to Part 1130—Terms and conditions for PROP Article III, “Use and disposition of real property”
Appendix D to Part 1130—Terms and conditions for PROP Article IV, “Use and disposition of equipment and supplies”
Appendix E to Part 1130—Terms and conditions for PROP Article V, “Use and disposition of federally owned property”
Appendix F to Part 1130—Terms and conditions for PROP Article VI, “Intangible property”

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 10 U.S.C. 113.

# Source:
85 FR 51171, Aug. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1130.1
Purpose of this part.
(a) This part specifies standard wording of general terms and conditions concerning equipment, supplies, and real, intangible, and federally owned property.
(b) It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.310 through 200.316, as that guidance applies to general terms and conditions of grants and cooperative agreements.
§ 1130.2
Applicability of this part.
The types of awards and entities to which this part and other parts in this subchapter apply are described in the subchapter overview at 2 CFR 1126.2.
§ 1130.3
Exceptions from requirements of this part.
Exceptions are permitted from the administrative requirements in this part only as described at 2 CFR 1126.3.
§ 1130.4
Organization of this part.
(a) The content of this part is organized into subparts and associated appendices.
(1) Each subpart provides direction to DoD Components on how to construct one article of general terms and conditions for grants and cooperative agreements.
(2) For each subpart, there is a corresponding appendix with standard wording for terms and conditions of the article addressed by the subpart. Terms and conditions address rights and responsibilities of the Federal Government and recipients.
(b) A DoD Component must use the wording provided in each appendix in accordance with the direction in the corresponding subpart. That direction may permit DoD Components to vary from the standard wording in some situations.
(c) Table 1 shows which article of general terms and conditions may be found in each of appendices A through F to this part (with the associated direction to DoD Components in Subparts A through F, respectively):
Table 1 to Paragraph
(c)
In . . .
You will find terms and conditions specifying recipients' rights and responsibilities related to . . .
That would appear in an award within PROP Article . . .
Appendix A
Title to property
I.
Appendix B
Property management system
II.
Appendix C
Use and disposition of real property
III.
Appendix D
Use and disposition of equipment and supplies
IV.
Appendix E
Use and disposition of federally owned property
V.
Appendix F
Intangible property
VI.

# Subpart A—Title to Property (PROP Article I)
§ 1130.100
Purpose of PROP Article I.
PROP Article I specifies in whom and under what conditions title to property vests under the award. It thereby implements OMB guidance for grants and cooperative agreements:
(a) Pertaining to vesting of title to property, in 2 CFR 200.311(a), 200.312(a), 200.313(a), 200.314(a), and 200.315(a).
(b) Pertaining to the property trust relationship in 2 CFR 200.316.
§ 1130.105
Title to property acquired under awards.
(a)
General policy.
Title to tangible property that a recipient acquires under an award (whether by purchase, construction or fabrication, development, or otherwise), and title to intangible property that a recipient acquires other than by developing or producing it under an award, generally vests in the recipient subject to the conditions in PROP Articles II-IV and Section D of PROP Article VI, which protect the Federal interest in the property.
(b)
Exceptions to the general policy when there is statutory authority
—(1)
Exempt property in general.
If a DoD Component has statutory authority to do so, it may vest title in recipients to property acquired under awards either unconditionally or subject to fewer conditions than those in PROP Articles II-IV and VI. This subpart refers to acquired property for which a DoD Component has such statutory authority—and elects to use it—as “exempt property.”
(2)
Research awards.
(i) Under 31 U.S.C. 6306, a DoD Component may vest title to tangible personal property (
i.e.,
equipment and supplies) in a nonprofit institution of higher education or nonprofit organization whose primary purpose is conducting scientific research—without further obligation to the Federal Government or subject to conditions the DoD Component deems appropriate—if the property is bought with amounts provided under a grant or cooperative agreement for basic or applied research.
(ii) As a matter of policy, to enhance the university infrastructure for future performance of defense research and research-related education and training, DoD Components must make maximum use of the authority of 31 U.S.C. 6306 to
vest title to equipment in nonprofit institutions of higher education subject to only the following three conditions:
(A) The recipient uses the equipment for the authorized purposes of the project or program until the property is no longer needed for those purposes.
(B) The recipient manages the equipment as provided in PROP Article II of the general terms and conditions (see Subpart B of this part). This includes maintaining property records that include the percentage of Federal participation in the costs of the project or program under which the recipient acquired the exempt property, so that the recipient may deduct the Federal share if it wishes to use the property in future contributions for cost sharing or matching purposes on Federal awards.
(C) The DoD Component reserves the right to transfer title to the equipment to another recipient entity if the Principal Investigator relocates his or her research program to that entity.
(c)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
Unless a DoD Component has a statute authorizing it to identify acquired property as exempt property, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, it must use the wording appendix A to this part provides for Section A of PROP Article I.
(2)
Exceptions.
(i) If a DoD Component has statutory authority such as described in paragraph (b) of this section, and elects to use that authority for awards subject to its general terms and conditions, it must insert wording in paragraph A.2 of PROP Article I to:
(A) Identify the type or types of property it is exempting from the standard requirements for title vesting, use, and disposition contained in PROP Articles II through IV and VI and reporting requirements contained in REP Article III of the general terms and conditions.
(B) If it is exempting the property from some, but not all, of the standard requirements, identify the requirements to which the exempt property will be subject.
(ii) Paragraph A.2 of PROP Article I in general terms and conditions used for research awards to institutions of higher education and nonprofit organizations whose primary purpose is conducting scientific research generally should provide for vesting of title to acquired equipment and supplies in those types of entities when they are conducting basic or applied research subject only to the three conditions described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
§ 1130.110
Property trust relationship.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.316 describes the property trust relationship. It states that:
(1) Recipients must hold real property, equipment, and intangible property acquired or improved under grants or cooperative agreements in trust for the beneficiaries of the projects or programs under which the property was acquired or improved; and
(2) A Federal agency may require a recipient to record liens or other appropriate notices of record to indicate that personal or real property was acquired or improved under a grant or cooperative agreement, making the property's use and disposition subject to the award terms and conditions.
(b)
DoD implementation.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify that recipients hold title to real property, equipment, and intangible property acquired or improved under DoD grants and cooperative agreements in trust for the beneficiaries of the projects or programs carried out under those awards.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions:
(1) Must include the wording appendix A to this part provides for paragraph B.1 of PROP Article I, except that a DoD Component may instead reserve Section B if there will be no acquisition or improvement of real property, equipment, or intangible property under awards using those general terms and conditions or subawards under those awards.
(2) May add wording to the reserved paragraph B.2 of the wording of Section B of PROP Article I to require recipients to record liens or other notices of record, as described in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 1130.115
Title to federally owned property.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must inform recipients that title to federally owned property remains with the Federal Government and include the wording appendix A to this part provides for Section C of PROP Article I.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must either:
(1) Include the wording appendix A to this part provides for Section C of PROP Article I to indicate that title to federally owned property remains with the Federal Government; or
(2) Reserve Section C if it provides no federally owned property under its awards.
§ 1130.120
Federal interest in donated property.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must inform recipients that the Federal Government acquires an interest in any real property or equipment for which the value of the remaining life of the property in the recipient's accounting records or the fair market value of the property is counted toward required cost sharing or matching, rather than charging depreciation.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions therefore must either:
(1) Include the wording appendix A to this part provides for Section D of PROP Article I to specify the Federal interest in donated real property or equipment; or
(2) Reserve Section D of PROP Article I if the DoD Component does not permit recipients to count the fair market value of real property or equipment toward cost sharing or matching.
§ 1130.125
Federal interest in property improved under awards.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must address the Federal interest in improvements to real property or equipment that results if a recipient directly charges the costs of the improvements to an award.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions therefore must either:
(1) Include the wording appendix A to this part provides for Section E of PROP Article I to specify the Federal interest in improved real property or equipment; or
(2) Reserve Section E of PROP Article I if there will be no improvements to real property or equipment under awards using those general terms and conditions or subawards under those awards.

# Subpart B—Property Management System (PROP Article II)
§ 1130.200
Purpose of PROP Article II.
(a) PROP Article II prescribes standards for:
(1) Insurance coverage for real property and equipment acquired or improved under awards;
(2) The system that a recipient uses to manage both equipment that is acquired or improved in whole or in part under awards and federally owned property.
(b) It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.310 and 200.313(d)(1) through (4), and partially implements 2 CFR 200.313(b).
§ 1130.205
Insurance coverage for real property and equipment.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.310 includes a requirement for recipients' insurance coverage for real property and equipment acquired or improved under grants and cooperative agreements and states that federally owned property need not be insured unless required by Federal award terms and conditions.
(b)
DoD implementation.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must require recipients to provide insurance coverage for real property and equipment acquired or improved under awards. However, unless a statute or program regulation adopted in the Code of Federal Regulations after opportunity for public comment specifies otherwise, DoD awards will not require recipients to insure federally owned property.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions therefore must either:
(1) Include the wording appendix B to this part provides for Section A of PROP Article II; or
(2) Reserve Section A of PROP Article II if there will be no real property or equipment acquired or improved under awards using those terms and conditions or subawards under those awards.
§ 1130.210
Other property management system standards for States.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must address the standards for States' property management systems.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions therefore must either:
(1) Include the wording appendix B to this part provides for Section B of PROP Article II; or
(2) Reserve Section B of PROP Article II if no State will acquire or improve equipment, in whole or in part, or be accountable for federally owned property under awards using those general terms and conditions or subawards under those awards.
§ 1130.215
Other property management system standards for institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, local governments, and Indian tribes.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must address the standards for property management systems of institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, local governments, and Indian tribes.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions therefore must either:
(1) Include the wording appendix B to this part provides for Section C of PROP Article II; or
(2) Reserve Section C of PROP Article II if no institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe will acquire or improve equipment, in whole or in part, or be accountable for federally owned property under awards using those general terms and conditions or subawards under those awards.

# Subpart C—Use and Disposition of Real Property (PROP Article III)
§ 1130.300
Purpose of PROP Article III.
PROP Article III specifies requirements for recipients' use and disposition of real property acquired or improved under an award. It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.311(b) and (c).
§ 1130.305
Use of real property.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.311(b) states that, except as otherwise provided by Federal statute or the Federal awarding agency, a recipient must use real property acquired or improved under a grant or cooperative agreement for the originally authorized purpose as long as needed for that purpose, during which time the recipient must not dispose of the property or encumber its title or other interests.
(b)
DoD implementation.
Unless a statute or program regulation adopted in the Code of Federal Regulations after opportunity for public comment specifies otherwise, DoD awards must permit recipients to do the following:
(1) While real property acquired or improved under an award still is needed for the authorized purpose, also use it for other projects or programs that either are supported by DoD Components or other Federal agencies or not federally supported, as long as that use does not interfere with the property's use for the authorized purpose.
(2) After the real property no longer is needed for the authorized purpose, with the written approval of the award administration office, use the property on other federally supported projects or programs that have purposes consistent with those authorized for support by the DoD Component that made the award under which the property was acquired or improved.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must either:
(1) Include the wording appendix C to this part provides for Section A of PROP Article III; or
(2) If a statute or program regulation in the Code of Federal Regulations
specifies different requirements for recipients' use of real property, substitute alternative wording for Section A to specify those requirements.
§ 1130.310
Disposition of real property.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.311(c):
(1) Addresses the recipient's responsibility to request disposition instructions for real property when the recipient no longer needs it for the originally authorized purpose; and
(2) Identifies three alternative disposition methods those instructions may specify.
(b)
DoD implementation.
DoD implements the guidance in 2 CFR 200.311(c) through award terms and conditions that govern disposition of real property acquired or improved under awards.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording appendix C to this part provides for Section B of PROP Article III to specify requirements concerning disposition of real property acquired or improved under awards.

# Subpart D—Use and Disposition of Equipment and Supplies (PROP Article IV)
§ 1130.400
Purpose of PROP Article IV.
PROP Article IV specifies requirements for recipients' use and disposition of equipment and supplies in which there is a Federal interest. It thereby implements OMB guidance in:
(a) 2 CFR 200.313(a) through (c), 200.313(d)(5), and 200.313(e) as that guidance applies to requirements for use and disposition of equipment; and
(b) 2 CFR 200.314, as that guidance applies to requirements for use and disposition of supplies.
§ 1130.405
Property subject to PROP Article IV.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must identify the types of non-exempt property to which requirements for use and disposition of equipment and supplies apply.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix D to this part provides for Section A of PROP Article IV. That wording identifies the categories of equipment and supplies in which there is a Federal interest.
§ 1130.410
Requirements for a State's use and disposition of equipment.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in:
(1) 2 CFR 200.313(a) sets forth basic conditions for use of equipment acquired under a grant or cooperative agreement that apply when title to the equipment is vested in a recipient conditionally, because the awarding agency either does not have statutory authority to vest title in the equipment unconditionally or elects not to do so.
(2) 2 CFR 200.313(b) provides that a State must use, manage, and dispose of equipment in accordance with State laws and procedures.
(b)
DoD implementation.
DoD implements 2 CFR 200.313(a) and (b) through award terms and conditions that govern States' use and disposition of equipment.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix D to this part provides for Section B of PROP Article IV to specify the requirements for a State's use and disposition of equipment in which there is a Federal interest.
§ 1130.415
Use of equipment by an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in:
(1) 2 CFR 200.313(a) sets forth basic conditions for use of equipment acquired under a grant or cooperative agreement that apply when title to the equipment is vested in a recipient conditionally, because the awarding agency either does not have statutory authority to vest title in the equipment unconditionally or elects not to do so.
(2) 2 CFR 200.313(c) provides the parameters for use of equipment by an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe.
(3) 2 CFR 200.313(d)(5) calls for use of sales procedures to ensure highest possible return when selling equipment.
(b)
DoD implementation.
For equipment in which there is a Federal interest under awards to institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, local governments, or Indian tribes, DoD implements through award terms and conditions the following portions of 2 CFR part 200 as they apply to use of equipment prior to the time of its disposition:
(1) 2 CFR 200.313(a) and (c); and
(2) 2 CFR 200.313(d)(5), as it applies to equipment sales prior to the time of disposition, to offset the acquisition cost of replacement equipment.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix D to this part provides for Section C of PROP Article IV to specify the requirements for use of equipment described in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 1130.420
Disposition of equipment by an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.313(e) addresses disposition of original or replacement equipment acquired under a grant or cooperative agreement by an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe.
(b)
DoD implementation.
DoD implements 2 CFR 200.313(e) through award terms and conditions that govern disposition of original or replacement equipment acquired under an award by an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe when there is a Federal interest in the equipment.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix D to this part provides for Section D of PROP Article IV to specify the requirements for disposition of equipment described in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 1130.425
Use and disposition of supplies.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.314 sets forth requirements for use and disposition of supplies acquired under a grant or cooperative agreement.
(b)
DoD implementation.
DoD implements 2 CFR 200.314 through award terms and conditions that govern use and disposition of supplies acquired under awards either by purchase or by donation as cost sharing or matching.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix D to this part provides for Section E of PROP Article IV to specify the requirements for use and disposition of acquired supplies.

# Subpart E—Use and Disposition of Federally Owned Property (PROP Article V)
§ 1130.500
Purpose of PROP Article V.
PROP Article V specifies requirements for recipients' use and disposition of federally owned property. It implements the portion of OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.312(a) that applies to disposition of federally owned property.
§ 1130.505
Content of PROP Article V.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must either:
(a) Include the wording appendix E to this part provides for PROP Article V to specify requirements for use and disposition of federally owned property; or
(b) Reserve PROP Article V if there is no possibility of recipients or subrecipients being accountable for federally owned property under awards using those terms and conditions.

# Subpart F—Intangible Property (PROP Article VI)
§ 1130.600
Purpose of PROP Article VI.
PROP Article VI sets forth the rights and responsibilities of recipients and the Federal Government with respect to intangible property. It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.315.
§ 1130.605
Copyrights asserted in works developed or otherwise acquired under awards.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.315(b) addresses recipients' and the Federal Government's rights related to works that recipients may
copyright under grants and cooperative agreements.
(b)
DoD implementation.
DoD implements 2 CFR 200.315(b) through award terms and conditions that specify recipient and DoD rights with respect to copyrightable works.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix F to this part provides for Section A of PROP Article VI to affirm the recipient's right to assert copyright in works it develops or otherwise acquires under an award, as well as DoD's right to use the works for Federal purposes.
§ 1130.610
Inventions developed under awards.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.315(c) states that recipients of grants and cooperative agreements are subject to applicable regulations concerning patents and inventions, including Department of Commerce regulations at 37 CFR part 401.
(b)
DoD implementation.
In implementing 2 CFR 200.315(c) for awards for the performance of experimental, developmental, or research work, DoD:
(1) Extends to other entities the patent rights provisions of chapter 18 of Title 35 of the U.S. Code and 37 CFR part 401 that directly apply to small business firms and nonprofit organizations. This broadened applicability is in accordance with the February 18, 1983, Presidential memorandum on Government patent policy, referred to in Executive Order 12591, “Facilitating Access to Science and Technology.”
(2) Establishes a requirement for recipients to provide final reports listing all subject inventions under their awards or stating there were none, a requirement that 37 CFR 401.5(f)(1) provides as an agency option.
(3) Incorporates the prohibition in 35 U.S.C. 212 on asserting Federal Government rights in inventions made by recipients of scholarships, fellowships, training grants, or other awards made primarily for educational purposes.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
(1)
Awards for research, developmental, or experimental work.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions for awards for the performance of experimental, developmental, or research work funded in whole or in part by the Federal Government must include the wording appendix F to this part provides for Section B of PROP Article VI, with one permitted exception. The exception is that a DoD Component may reserve or substitute alternative wording for paragraph B.2.b of Section B of PROP Article VI, as appropriate, if it elects to:
(i) Omit the requirement for final invention reports;
(ii) Substitute “120 calendar days” for “90 calendar days” to provide an additional 30 days for recipient's submissions of final reports after the end date of the period of performance; or
(iii) Include a requirement for recipients to submit information about each patent application they submit for a subject invention, interim listings of all subject inventions, or both, which the Department of Commerce regulations at 37 CFR 401.5(f)(2) and (3) permit agencies to require.
(2)
Awards for primarily educational purposes.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions for awards to support scholarships or fellowships, training grants, or other awards for primarily educational purposes must replace the wording appendix F to this part provides for Section B of PROP Article VI with an alternative award provision stating that the Federal Government will have no rights to inventions made by recipients.
(3) A
wards for other purposes.
A DoD Component developing general terms and conditions for awards other than those described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section should:
(i) Consult its intellectual property counsel if it anticipates that recipients may develop patentable inventions under its awards, to identify any applicable statutes or regulations and determine an appropriate substitute for the wording appendix F to this part provides for Section B of PROP Article VI; or
(ii) Reserve Section B of PROP Article VI if it does not expect development of any patentable inventions under those awards.
§ 1130.615
Data produced under awards.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.315(d) and (e) addresses rights in data under grants and cooperative agreements.
(b)
DoD implementation.
DoD implements 2 CFR 200.315(d) and (e) through award terms and conditions.
(c)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording appendix F to this part provides for Section C of PROP Article VI.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component may reserve paragraph C.2 of Section C of PROP Article VI in its general terms and conditions if:
(i) Those terms and conditions will not be used for research awards; and
(ii) The DoD Component determines that no research data as defined in 2 CFR 200.315 will be generated under the awards using those terms and conditions.
§ 1130.620
Intangible property acquired, but not developed or produced, under awards.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.315(a) addresses use and disposition of intangible property that is acquired under grants and cooperative agreements (in addition to vesting of title, which is implemented in § 1130.105 and appendix A to this part).
(b)
DoD implementation.
DoD implements 2 CFR 200.315(a) through award terms and conditions that govern use and disposition of intangible property that is acquired, but not developed or produced, under awards.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording appendix F to this part provides for Section D of PROP Article VI.
Pt. 1130, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1130—Terms and Conditions for PROP Article I, “Title to Property”
Unless a DoD Component inserts or adds wording or reserves sections of the article, as provided in §§ 1130.105 through 1130.125, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for PROP Article I.

# PROP Article I. Title to Property. (December 2014)
Section A. Title to property acquired under this award.
1.
General.
Other than any property identified in paragraph A.2 of this section as exempt property:
a. Title to real property, equipment, and supplies that you acquire (whether by purchase, construction or fabrication, development, or otherwise) and charge as direct project costs under this award vests in you, the recipient. Title to intangible property that you acquire (other than by developing or producing it) under this award also vests in you.
b. That title is a conditional title, subject to the terms and conditions in PROP Articles II-IV, Section D of PROP Article VI, and REP Article III of this award.
c. There is a Federal interest in the property, other than intangible property that you develop or produce under the award. For real property, equipment, and intangible property, we retain this Federal interest until final disposition of the property under PROP Article III (for real property), PROP Article IV (for equipment and supplies), or Section D of PROP Article VI (for intangible property that is acquired, other than by developing or producing it), a period that in some cases may extend beyond closeout of this award.
2.
Exempt property.
[Reserved]
Section B. Property trust relationship.
1.
Basic requirement.
Other than intangible property that you develop or produce under the award, you hold any real property, equipment, or intangible property that you acquire or improve under this award in trust for the beneficiaries of the project or program that you are carrying out under the award.
2.
Notices of record.
[Reserved]
Section C. Federally owned property.
Title to any federally owned property that we provide to you under this award (or for which accountability is transferred to this award from another Federal award) remains with the Federal Government.
Section D. Federal interest in donated real property or equipment.
If real property or equipment is acquired under this award through your donation of the property to the project or program (
i.e.,
counting the value of the remaining life of the property recorded in your accounting records or the fair market value as permitted under FMS Article VI of this award as part of your share of project costs to meet any cost sharing or matching requirements, rather than charging depreciation):
1. The Federal Government acquires through that donation an interest in the real property or equipment, the value of which at any given time is the product of:
a. The Federal share of the project costs under this award; and
b. The current fair market value of the property at that time.
2. The real property or equipment is subject to Section B of this article and the terms and conditions of PROP Articles II-IV and REP Article III that are applicable to property acquired under the award.
3. The Federal interest in the real property or equipment must be addressed at the time of property disposition.
Section E. Federal interest in property improved under the award.
1. The Federal Government has an interest in improvements (as distinct from ordinary repairs and maintenance) you make to an item of real property or equipment if you charge the costs of the improvements as direct costs to this award.
2. We thereby acquire an interest in the property if the Government did not previously have one. If the Government already had an interest in the property, the value of that Federal interest in the property increases by the amount of the Federal interest in the improvements.
3. The property is subject to Section B of this article and the terms and conditions of PROP Articles II-IV and REP Article III that are applicable to real property or equipment acquired under the award.
4. The Federal interest must be addressed at the time of property disposition.
Pt. 1130, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1130—Terms and Conditions for PROP Article II, “Property Management System”
Unless a DoD Component reserves sections of the article, as provided in §§ 1130.205 through 1130.215, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for PROP Article II.

# PROP Article II. Property Management System. (December 2014)
Section A. Insurance coverage for real property and equipment.
You must, at a minimum, provide the equivalent insurance coverage for real property and equipment acquired or improved under this award as you provide for real property and equipment that you own.
Section B. Other property management system standards for a State.
1.
Equipment.
Your property management system for equipment acquired or improved in whole or in part under this award must be in accordance with your State laws and procedures.
2.
Federally owned property.
You may use your own property management system for any federally owned property for which you are accountable, as long as it meets the following minimum standards:
a.
Records.
Your records must include for each item of federally owned property:
i. A description of the item.
ii. The location of the item.
iii. The serial or other identification number.
iv. Which Federal agency holds title.
v. The date you received the item.
vi. Any data on the ultimate disposition of the item, such as the date of disposal.
vii. The Federal award identification number of the award under which you are accountable for the item.
b.
Inventory.
You must take a physical inventory of federally owned property annually.
c.
Control system.
You must:
i. Maintain an internal property control system with adequate safeguards to prevent loss, damage, or theft of federally owned property.
ii. Investigate any loss, damage, or theft of federally owned property and promptly notify the award administration office.
d.
Maintenance.
You must maintain the property in good condition.
Section C. Other property management system standards for an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe.
Your procedures for managing equipment (including replacement equipment) acquired or improved in whole or in part under this award and any federally owned property for which you are accountable under this award must, as a minimum, meet the requirements in this section.
1.
Records.
You must maintain records that include for each item of equipment or federally owned property:
a. A description of the item.
b. The serial or other identification number.
c. Who holds title (
e.g.,
you or the Federal Government and, if the latter, which Federal agency).
d. The source of funding for the equipment, including the Federal award identification number, or the source of the federally owned property, including the award number of the award under which you are accountable for the property.
e. The acquisition date and cost of the equipment (or improvement to the equipment) or the date you received the federally owned property.
f. The location, use, and condition of the equipment or federally owned property.
g. Information from which one can calculate the amount of the Federal interest in the acquisition or improvement of the item (this amount is zero after you compensate us for the Federal interest in the item or improvement).
h. Any data on the ultimate disposition of the item including the date of disposal and sale price.
2.
Labelling.
You must ensure that property owned by the Federal Government is labeled to identify it as federally owned property.
3.
Inventory.
a. You must take a physical inventory of equipment in which there is a Federal interest and reconcile the results with your records at least once every 2 years.
b. You must take an annual inventory of any federally owned property for which you are accountable under this award.
4.
Control system.
You must:
a. Maintain an internal property control system with adequate safeguards to prevent loss, damage, or theft of equipment and federally owned property.
b. Investigate any loss, damage, or theft and notify the award administration office if it involved equipment in which there is a Federal interest under the award or federally owned property.
5.
Maintenance.
You must maintain equipment acquired or improved in whole or in part under the award and federally owned property in good condition.
Pt. 1130, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 1130—Terms and Conditions for PROP Article III, “Use and Disposition of Real Property”
Unless a DoD Component substitutes wording in Section A, as provided in § 1130.305, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for PROP Article III.

# PROP Article III. Use and Disposition of Real Property. (December 2014)
Section A. Use of real property.
1. You must use real property acquired or improved under this award for the originally authorized purpose as long as needed for that purpose. During that time, you may not:
a. Dispose of the property except, with the approval of the award administration office, to acquire replacement property under this award, in which case you must use the proceeds from the disposition as an offset to the cost of the replacement property; or
b. Encumber the title or other interests in the property without the approval of the award administration office identified in this award.
2. During the time that the real property is used for the originally authorized purpose, you may make the property available for use on other projects or programs, but only if that use will not interfere with the property's use as needed for its originally authorized purpose.
a. First preference must be given to other projects or programs supported by DoD Components and second preference to those supported by other Federal agencies.
b. Third preference is for other projects or programs not currently supported by the Federal Government. You should charge user fees for use of the property in those cases, if it is at all practicable.
3. When the real property is no longer needed for the originally authorized purpose, with the written approval of the award administration office, you may delay final disposition of the property to use it on other federally sponsored projects or programs. A condition for the award administration office's approval is that the other projects or programs have purposes consistent with those authorized for support by the DoD Component that made the award under which the property was acquired or improved.
Section B. Disposition of real property.
When you no longer need real property for the originally authorized purpose, you must obtain disposition instructions from the award administration office, except as provided in paragraph A.3 of this article. Those instructions will provide for one of the following three alternatives, which are that you:
1. Retain title after compensating us for the Federal interest in the property, which is to be computed as specified in the definition of “Federal interest.”
2. Sell the property and compensate us for the Federal interest in the property, as described in 2 CFR 200.311(c)(2).
3. Transfer title to us or a third party we designate, as described in 2 CFR 200.311(c)(3).
Pt. 1130, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 1130—Terms and Conditions for PROP Article IV, “Use and Disposition of Equipment and Supplies”
As specified in §§ 1130.405 through 1130.425, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for PROP Article IV.

# PROP Article IV. Use and Disposition of Equipment and Supplies. (December 2014)
Section A. Property subject to this article.
This article specifies requirements for use and disposition of equipment and supplies. If a provision of PROP Article I identifies any type of equipment or supplies as exempt property, requirements of this Article apply to that exempt property only to the extent specified in that provision of PROP Article I or an award-specific term or condition. The types of non-exempt property to which this article applies are:
1. Supplies that you acquire either by purchase or by donation as cost sharing or matching under this award; and
2. Equipment for which title is vested conditionally in you. That includes equipment with a conditional title resulting from your having, either under this award or under a previous award from which you transferred accountability for the equipment to this award:
a. Directly charged as project costs, in whole or in part, the acquisition (by purchase, construction or fabrication, or development) of equipment;
b. Donated the equipment to the project or program by counting the value of the remaining life of the property recorded in your accounting records or the fair market value toward any cost sharing or matching requirements under the award, rather than charging depreciation (see PROP Article I, Section D); or
c. Directly charged as project costs improvements to the equipment that meet the criteria given in paragraph E.1 of PROP Article I.
Section B. Requirements for a State's use and disposition of equipment.
You:
1. Must use the equipment for the authorized purposes of the project or program during the period of performance, or until the property is no longer needed for those purposes.
2. May not encumber the property without the prior written approval of the award administration office.
3. Must use and dispose of the equipment in accordance with your State laws and procedures.
Section C. Use of equipment by an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe.
You:
1. Must use the equipment for the authorized purposes of the project or program under this award until the equipment is no longer needed for those purposes, whether or not the project or program continues to be supported by this award.
2. May not encumber the equipment without the prior written approval of the award administration office.
3. During the time that the equipment is used for the project or program under this award:
a. You must make the equipment available for use on other projects or programs but only if that use will not interfere with the equipment's use as needed for the project or program supported by this award.
i. First preference must be given to other projects or programs supported or previously supported by DoD Components
ii. Second preference to projects or programs supported or previously supported by other Federal agencies.
iii. Third preference is for other projects or programs not supported by the Federal Government. You should charge user fees for use of the equipment in those cases, if it is at all practicable.
b. You may use the equipment, if you need to acquire replacement equipment, as a trade-in or sell it (using sales procedures designed to ensure the highest possible return) and use the proceeds from the sale to offset the cost of the replacement equipment.
4. When the equipment is no longer needed for the project or program under this award, you may defer final disposition of the equipment and continue to use it on other federally sponsored projects or programs. You must give first priority to other projects or programs supported by DoD Components.
5. Notwithstanding the encouragement in FMS Article VII to earn program income, you may not use equipment in which there currently is a Federal interest—whether you acquired it under this award or are otherwise accountable for it under this award—to provide services for a fee that is less than private companies charge for equivalent services.
Section D. Disposition of equipment by an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe.
You must request disposition instructions from the award administration office when either original or replacement equipment acquired under this award with a current fair market value that exceeds $5,000 is no longer needed for the original project or program or for other federally sponsored activities as described in paragraph C.4 of this article. For each item of equipment with a current fair market value of $5,000 or less, you may retain, sell, or otherwise dispose of the item with no further obligation to the Federal Government.
1. We may issue disposition instructions that:
a. Allow you to retain or sell any item of equipment after compensating us for the Federal interest in the property, which is to be computed as specified in the definition of “Federal interest;” or
b. Require you to transfer title to the equipment to a Federal agency or a third party, in which case you are entitled to compensation from us for the non-Federal interest in the equipment, plus any reasonable shipping or interim storage costs incurred.
2. If we fail to provide disposition instructions for any item of equipment within 120 calendar days of receiving your request, you may retain or sell the equipment, but you must compensate us for the amount of the Federal interest in the equipment.
3. If you sell the equipment:
a. You must use sales procedures designed to ensure the highest possible return; and
b. You may deduct and retain for selling and handling expenses either $500 or ten percent of the proceeds, whichever is less.
Section E. Use and disposition of supplies acquired under this award.
1.
Use.
As long as we retain a Federal interest in supplies acquired under this award either by purchase or by donation as cost sharing or matching, you may not use the supplies to provide services to other organizations for a fee that is less than private companies charge for equivalent services, notwithstanding the encouragement in FMS Article VII to earn program income.
2.
Disposition.
If you have a residual inventory of unused supplies with aggregate value exceeding $5,000 at the end of the period of performance under this award, and the supplies are not needed for any other Federal award, you must retain the supplies or sell them but must in either case compensate us for the amount of the Federal interest in the supplies. You may deduct and retain for selling and handling expenses either $500 or ten percent of the proceeds, whichever is less.
Pt. 1130, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 1130—Terms and Conditions for PROP Article V, “Use and Disposition of Federally Owned Property”
Unless a DoD Component reserves the article, as specified in § 1130.505, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for PROP Article V.

# PROP Article V. Use and Disposition of Federally Owned Property. (December 2014)
Section A. Use.
During the time that federally owned property for which you are accountable under this award is used for the project or program supported by the award, you:
1. Also may make the property available for use on other federally supported projects or programs, but only if that use will not interfere with the property's use for the project or program supported by this award. You must give first priority to other projects or programs supported by DoD Components.
2. May use the property for purposes other than federally supported projects or programs only with the prior approval of the awarding office or, if you request approval after the award is made, the award administration office.
Section B. Disposition.
You must request disposition instructions from the award administration office for any federally owned property under this award, including any property for which a subrecipient is accountable under a subaward you make under this award, either:
1. At any time during the period of performance if the property is no longer needed for the project or program supported by this award; or
2. At the end of the period of performance.
Pt. 1130, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 1130—Terms and Conditions for PROP Article VI, “Intangible Property”
Except for Section B, whose language must be tailored or reserved based on the type of award as specified in § 1130.610, and Section D if reserved as provided in § 1130.615, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for PROP Article VI.

# PROP Article VI. Intangible Property. (December 2014)
Section A. Assertion of copyright.
1. You may assert copyright in any work that is eligible for copyright protection if you acquire ownership of it under this award, either by developing it or otherwise.
2. With respect to any work, you developed or otherwise acquired under this award, DoD reserves a royalty-free, nonexclusive and irrevocable license to:
a. Reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the work for Federal Government purposes; and
b. Authorize others to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the work for Federal Government purposes.
Section B. Inventions developed under the award.
1.
Applicability of Governmentwide clause for research awards.
You must comply with the Governmentwide patent rights award clause published at 37 CFR 401.14, with the modifications described in paragraph B.2 of this section. DoD adopts that Governmentwide clause for the following entities, thereby broadening the applicability beyond types of entities included in the definition of “contractor” in 37 CFR part 401:
a. Any governmental or nonprofit entity (the types of entities subject to these general terms and conditions) receiving a DoD award for the performance of experimental, research, or developmental work;
b. Any governmental, nonprofit, or for-profit entity receiving a subaward to perform experimental, research, or developmental work under an award described in paragraph B.1.a of this section.
2.
Modifications to the wording of the Governmentwide clause.
DoD adopts the Governmentwide clause at 37 CFR 401.14, as described in paragraph B.1 of this section, with the following modifications:
a.
Terminology.
Throughout the Governmentwide clause:
i. Insert the terms “recipient” and “subrecipient (or contractor to the recipient or to a subrecipient)” to replace the terms “contractor” and “subcontractor,” respectively.
ii. Insert the terms “award” and “subaward (or contract under either the award or a subaward)” to replace the terms “contract” and “subcontract,” respectively.
b.
Final report.
Add a new subparagraph (f)(5) to read, “The recipient must submit a final report listing all subject inventions made under the award or stating that there were none. The final report is due 90 calendar days after the end date of the period of performance unless you request, and we grant, an extension of the due date.”
c.
Broadening applicability to all entities.
Delete paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of the Governmentwide clause, redesignate paragraph (g)(1) as paragraph (g) and delete the phrase “to be performed by a small business firm or domestic nonprofit organization” from paragraph (g) as redesignated.
Section C. Data produced under the award.
1.
Data in general.
The Federal Government has the right to:
a. Obtain, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the data produced under this award; and
b. Authorize others to receive, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the data produced under this award for Federal Government purposes.
2.
Research data requested under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).
a. If we receive a request under the FOIA for “research data” that are related to “published research findings” produced under this award and that were “used by the Federal Government in developing an agency action that has the force and effect of law,” you must provide the data to us within a reasonable time after we request it from you, so that the data can be made available to the public through procedures established under the FOIA.
b. For purposes of the requirement in paragraph C.2.a of this section, 2 CFR 200.315(e) provides definitions of the phrases “published research findings,” “used by the Federal Government in developing an agency action that has the force and effect of law,” and “research data.”
Section D. Use and disposition of intangible property acquired, but not developed or produced, under the award.
1.
Applicability.
This section applies to a patent, patent application, copyright, or other intangible property acquired, but not developed or produced, under this award.
2.
Use.
You:
a. Must use the intangible property for the authorized purpose under this award until the intangible property is no longer needed for that purpose, whether or not that purpose is still being supported by this award.
b. May not encumber the intangible property without the prior written approval of the award administration office.
3.
Disposition.
When the intangible property is no longer needed for the originally authorized purpose, you must contact the award administration office to arrange for disposition in accordance with the procedures specified for disposition of equipment in either section B or D of PROP Article IV, as applicable.
Pt. 1132

# PART 1132—RECIPIENT PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Sec.
1132.1
Purpose of this part.
1132.2
Applicability of this part.
1132.3
Exceptions from requirements of this part.
1132.4
Organization of this part.

# Subpart A—Procurement Standards for States (PROC Article I)
1132.100
Purpose of PROC Article I.
1132.105
Content of PROC Article I.

# Subpart B—Procurement Standards for Institutions of Higher Education, Nonprofit Organizations, Local Governments, and Indian Tribes (PROC Article II)
1132.200
Purpose of PROC Article II.
1132.205
Procurement procedures.
1132.210
Procurement of recovered materials.
1132.215
Review of recipient procurement documents.
1132.220
Bonding requirements.

# Subpart C—Contract Provisions for Recipient Procurements (PROC Article III)
1132.300
Purpose of PROC Article III.
1132.305
Administrative requirements.
1132.310
National policy requirements.
Appendix A to Part 1132—Terms and conditions for PROC Article I, “Procurement standards for States”
Appendix B to Part 1132—Terms and conditions for PROC Article II, “Procurement standards for institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, local governments, and Indian tribes”
Appendix C to Part 1132—Terms and conditions for PROC Article III, “Contract provisions for recipient procurements”

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 10 U.S.C. 113.

# Source:
85 FR 51171, Aug. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1132.1
Purpose of this part.
(a) This part specifies standard wording of general terms and conditions concerning recipients' purchases of property (supplies, equipment, and real property) and services.
(b) It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.317 through 200.326,
and appendix II to 2 CFR part 200, as those portions of 2 CFR part 200 apply to general terms and conditions of grants and cooperative agreements. It also partially implements 2 CFR 200.205(d), 200.213, and 200.517.
§ 1132.2
Applicability of this part.
The types of awards and entities to which this part and other parts in this subchapter apply are described in the subchapter overview at 2 CFR 1126.2.
§ 1132.3
Exceptions from requirements of this part.
Exceptions are permitted from the administrative requirements in this part only as follows:
(a) As described in 2 CFR 1126.3, and
(b) Based on any language in 2 CFR 200.110(a) regarding the applicability of the procurement standards in 2 CFR part 200.
§ 1132.4
Organization of this part.
(a) The content of this part is organized into subparts and associated appendices.
(1) Each subpart provides direction to DoD Components on how to construct one article of general terms and conditions for grants and cooperative agreements.
(2) For each subpart, there is a corresponding appendix with standard wording for terms and conditions of the article addressed by the subpart. Terms and conditions address rights and responsibilities of the Federal Government and recipients.
(b) A DoD Component must use the wording provided in each appendix in accordance with the direction in the corresponding subpart. That direction may permit DoD Components to vary from the standard wording in some situations.
(c) Table 1 shows which article of general terms and conditions may be found in each of appendices A through C to this part (with the associated direction to DoD Components in Subparts A through C, respectively):
Table 1 to paragraph
(c)
In . . .
You will find terms and conditions specifying recipients' rights and responsibilities related to . . .
That would appear in an award within PROC Article . . .
Appendix A
Procurement standards for States
I.
Appendix B
Procurement standards for institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, local governments, and Indian tribes
II.
Appendix C
Contract provisions for recipient procurements
III.

# Subpart A-Procurement Standards for States (PROC Article I)
§ 1132.100
Purpose of PROC Article I.
PROC Article I of the general terms and conditions specifies requirements for a State's procurement of property and services under grants or cooperative agreements. It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.317 and partially implements the guidance in 2 CFR 200.205(d) and 200.213.
§ 1132.105
Content of PROC Article I.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must address requirements for States' procurement systems.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix A to this part provides for PROC Article I.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions may instead reserve PROC Article I if the DoD Component determines that it is not possible that any States will receive:
(i) DoD Component awards using those general terms and conditions; or
(ii) Subawards from recipients of DoD Component awards using those general terms and conditions.

# Subpart B—Procurement Standards for Institutions of Higher Education, Nonprofit Organizations, Local Governments, and Indian Tribes (PROC Article II)
§ 1132.200
Purpose of PROC Article II.
PROC Article II of the general terms and conditions specifies procurement procedures for a recipient of a grant or cooperative agreement other than a State or for-profit entity. It thereby:
(a) Implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.318 through 200.323, 200.324(a) and (b), and 200.325;
(b) Partially implements 2 CFR 200.205(d) and 200.213; and
(c) Implements, in conjunction with PROC Article III, 2 CFR 200.326.
§ 1132.205
Procurement procedures.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must address requirements for procurement systems of institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, local governments, and Indian tribes.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
In order to implement the requirement described in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording that appendix B provides for Sections A through F of PROC Article II.
§ 1132.210
Procurement of recovered materials.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must address requirements for procurement of recovered materials if State agencies or agencies of a political subdivision of a State may receive awards using those terms and conditions or be subrecipients under those awards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must either:
(1) Use the wording that appendix B provides for Section G of PROC Article II, to specify requirements for a local government or other political subdivision of a State to comply with Resource Conservation and Recovery Act requirements; or
(2) Reserve Section G if the DoD Component determines that it is not possible that a political subdivision of a State will receive either:
(i) An award using those terms and conditions; or
(ii) A subaward under an award using those terms and conditions.
§ 1132.215
Review of recipient procurement documents.
(a)
Requirements.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must:
(1) Include a requirement for recipients to make technical specifications for proposed procurements available upon the DoD Component's request, as described in 2 CFR 200.324(a).
(2) Reserve the DoD Component's right to review a recipient's pre-procurement documents when any of the conditions described in 2 CFR 200.324(b)(1) through (5) apply and the recipient is not exempted from the requirement in accordance with 2 CFR 200.324(c).
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording that appendix B to this part provides for Section H of PROC Article II.
§ 1132.220
Bonding requirements.
(a)
Requirements.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must require each recipient to meet minimum bonding requirements if it awards any construction or facility improvement contract with a value in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold. A recipient would instead use its own bonding requirements if the DoD Component determined that the recipient's bonding policy and requirements are adequate to protect Federal interests.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
To implement the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording that appendix B to this part provides for Section I of PROC Article II. The DoD Component may include a provision in the award-specific terms and conditions to override Section I of PROC Article II in each award to a recipient for which it made the determination about
the recipient's bonding policy and requirements, as described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Exceptions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions may reserve Section I if the DoD Component determines that there will be no construction or facility improvement contracts with values in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold under awards using its general terms and conditions.

# Subpart C—Contract Provisions for Recipient Procurements (PROC Article III)
§ 1132.300
Purpose of PROC Article III.
PROC Article III of the general terms and conditions specifies provisions that recipients must include in contracts under their awards, as applicable. It thereby:
(a) Implements, in conjunction with PROC Articles I and II, OMB guidance concerning recipients' contract provisions under grants and cooperative agreements in 2 CFR 200.317 and 200.326;
(b) Partially implements the OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.205(d) and 200.213 concerning suspension and debarment requirements; and
(c) Partially implements the OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.517 concerning retention and access of auditors' records.
§ 1132.305
Administrative requirements.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must require recipients to include in their contracts standard administrative requirements related to remedies, termination, allowable costs, rights in copyrights and data, records access and retention, and reporting.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the requirement described in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording that appendix C to this part provides for Section A of PROC Article III.
§ 1132.310
National policy requirements.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must require recipients to include provisions in their contracts that require the contractors to comply with applicable national policy requirements.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
To implement the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording that appendix C to this part provides for Section B of PROC Article III.
(2)
Exceptions.
(i) The Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute (40 U.S.C. 3141-44, 3146, and 3147) does not apply to a program carried out through grants or cooperative agreements unless another statute makes it apply to that program. A DoD Component's general terms and conditions therefore may not include the provision that appendix C to this part includes as paragraph B.2 of PROC Article III unless another statute makes the Wage Rate Requirements statute apply to the program using those general terms and conditions.
(ii) If a DoD Component determines that any of the other national policy requirements in Section B will not apply to any of the awards subject to its general terms and conditions, the DoD Component may reserve the paragraphs of Section B addressing those requirements. Should a future need arise to include the requirements in a given award, the DoD Component may include them as award-specific terms and conditions.
Pt. 1132, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1132—Terms and Conditions for PROC Article I, “Procurement Standards for States”
Unless a DoD Component reserves the article, as specified in § 1132.105, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for PROC Article I.

# PROC Article I. Procurement Standards for States. (December 2014)
Section A. Use of State procurement system.
Subject only to the conditions in Sections B through D of this article, you must use the same policies and procedures to procure supplies, equipment, real property, and services under this award that you use when you procure those items for State purposes using non-Federal funds.
Section B. Procurement of recovered materials.
You must comply with the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act requirements described in OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.322.
Section C. Debarment and suspension.
You must comply with restrictions on awarding procurement transactions to excluded or disqualified parties and other requirements specified by OMB guidelines on nonprocurement debarment and suspension at 2 CFR part 180, as implemented by DoD at 2 CFR part 1125.
Section D. Contract provisions.
You must include provisions in your procurement transactions under this award to require the contractors' compliance with the requirements specified in PROC Article III, as applicable.
Pt. 1132, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1132—Terms and Conditions for PROC Article II, “Procurement Standards for Institutions of Higher Education, Nonprofit Organizations, Local Governments, and Indian Tribes”
With the exception of Sections G and I, which may be reserved as specified in §§ 1132.210 and 1132.220, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for PROC Article II.

# PROC Article II. Procurement Standards for Institutions of Higher Education, Nonprofit Organizations, Local Governments, and Indian Tribes. (December 2014)
Section A. General procurement standards.
1. For procurement under this award, you must comply with the following paragraphs of OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.318:
a. 200.318(a) concerning documented procurement procedures;
b. 200.318(b) concerning oversight of contractors;
c. 200.318(c) concerning standards of conduct and conflicts of interest;
d. 2 CFR 200.318(d) concerning purchases of unnecessary or duplicative items;
e. 200.318(e) concerning intergovernmental or inter-entity agreements;
f. 200.318(g) concerning value engineering;
g. 200.318(i) concerning procurement records;
h. 200.318(j) concerning time and material type contracts; and
i. 200.318(k) concerning settlement of issues arising out of procurements.
2. You must do business only with responsible contractors who are able to perform, as described in OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.318(h). Related to that, you must comply with restrictions on awarding procurement transactions to excluded or disqualified parties and other requirements specified by OMB guidelines on nonprocurement debarment and suspension at 2 CFR part 180, as implemented by DoD at 2 CFR part 1125.
Section B. Competition.
You must award procurement transactions under this DoD award in accordance with the competition requirements described in OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.319.
Section C. Procurement methods.
You must award procurement transactions under this award using methods described in OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.320.
Section D. Contracting with small and minority businesses, women's business enterprises, and labor surplus area firms.
You must take the affirmative steps described in OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.321 when awarding procurement transactions under this award.
Section E. Contract cost and price.
When awarding a contract under this award, you must follow the procedures related to costs and price that are described in OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.323, using the applicable cost principles specified in FMS Article III.
Section F. Contract provisions.
You must include provisions in your procurement transactions under this award to require the contractors' compliance with the requirements of PROC Article III, as applicable.
Section G. Procurement of recovered materials.
If you are a political subdivision of a State, you must comply with the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act requirements described in OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.322.
Section H. Review of procurement documents.
Upon our request, you must make available:
1. Technical specifications on proposed procurements, as described in 2 CFR 200.324(a).
2. Pre-procurement documents for our review, as described in 2 CFR 200.324(b) unless you are exempt from that requirement under 2 CFR 200.324(c).
Section I. Bonding requirements.
If you award a construction or facility improvement contract under this award with a value in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, you must comply with at least the minimum requirements for bidders' bid guarantees and contractors' performance and payment bonds described in 2 CFR 200.325(a) through (c), unless a provision in the award-specific terms and conditions of this award excepts you from the requirement based on our determination that your bonding policy and requirements are adequate to protect Federal interests.
Pt. 1132, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 1132—Terms and Conditions for PROC Article III, “Contract Provisions for Recipient Procurements”
Unless a DoD Component reserves one or more paragraphs of Section B, as specified in § 1132.310, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for PROC Article III.

# PROC Article III. Contract Provisions for Recipient Procurements. (December 2014)
Section A. Contract provisions for administrative requirements.
1.
Remedies.
In any contract under this award for an amount in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, you must provide for administrative, contractual, or legal remedies, including any appropriate sanctions and penalties, when the contractor violates or breaches the contract terms.
2.
Termination.
In any contract for an amount in excess of $10,000, you must specify conditions under which you may terminate the contract for cause or convenience; the procedures for termination; and the basis to be used for settlement.
3.
Allowable costs under cost-type contracts.
In any cost-type contract with an entity, you must include a clause to permit the entity to charge to the contract only costs that are allowable under the cost principles that FMS Article III identifies as applicable to that type of entity, as supplemented by any award-specific terms and conditions related to allowability of costs that are included in this award. Your contract clause may permit the contractor to use its own cost principles in determining the allowability of its costs charged to the contract, as long as its cost principles comply with those Federal cost principles supplemented by any award-specific terms and conditions of this award.
4.
Rights in copyright and data.
You must include in each contract under this award a provision requiring that the contractor:
a. Grant the Federal Government a royalty-free, nonexclusive and irrevocable right to:
i. Reproduce, publish, or otherwise use for Federal purposes any work that is subject to copyright and that the contractor develops, or acquires ownership of, under this award;
ii. Authorize others to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use such work for Federal purposes; and
b. Grant the Federal Government the right to:
i. Obtain, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use data produced under this award;
ii. Authorize others to receive, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use such data for Federal purposes; and
c. Include the Federal Government rights described in subparagraphs 4.a. and 4.b. of this section in any subcontracts.
5.
Access to records.
a. In any negotiated, cost-type or time and materials contract for an amount in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, you must provide for access to any of the contractor's books, documents, papers, and records that are directly pertinent to that contract to enable and support audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcriptions. The contract provision must provide access to those records for all of the following and their duly authorized representatives:
i. You;
ii. Us as the Federal awarding agency, including our Inspector General; and
iii. The Comptroller General of the United States.
b. In any audit services contract for performance of an audit required by the Single Audit Act, as implemented by OMB in Subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, you must provide for the access to audit documentation described in 2 CFR 200.517(b).
6.
Records retention.
a. In any negotiated, cost-type or time and materials contract for an amount in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, you must provide for retention of all records that are directly pertinent to that contract for 3 years after you make final payment and all pending matters are closed.
b. In any audit services contract for performance of an audit required by the Single Audit Act, as implemented by OMB in Subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, you must provide for the retention of audit documentation described in 2 CFR 200.517(a).
7.
Reporting.
In any contract awarded under this award, you must include any provision for the contractor's reporting to you that may be needed in order for you to meet your requirements under this award to report to us.
Section B. Contract provisions for national policy requirements.
1.
Equal employment opportunity.
You must include the clause provided in 41 CFR 60-1.4(b) in any “federally assisted construction contract” (as defined in 41 CFR 60-1.3) under this award, unless provisions of 41 CFR part 60-1 exempt the contract from the requirement.
2.
Wage Rate Requirements (Construction),
formerly the Davis-Bacon Act. With respect to each construction contract for more than $2,000 to be awarded using funding provided under this award, you must:
a. Place in the solicitation under which the contract will be awarded a copy of the current prevailing wage determination issued by the Department of Labor;
b. Condition the decision to award the contract upon the contractor's acceptance of that prevailing wage determination;
c. Include in the contract the clauses specified at 29 CFR 5.5(a) in Department of Labor regulations at 29 CFR part 5, “Labor Standards Provisions Applicable to Contracts Governing Federally Financed and Assisted Construction,” to require the contractor's compliance with the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction), as amended (40 U.S.C. 3141-44, 3146, and 3147); and
d. Report all suspected or reported violations to the award administration office identified in this award.
3.
Copeland Act prohibition on kickbacks.
In each contract under this award that is subject to the Wage Rate requirements in paragraph 2 of these provisions, you must:
a. Include a provision requiring the contractor to comply with the anti-kickback provisions of the Copeland Act (18 U.S.C. 874 and 40 U.S.C. 3145), as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations at 29 CFR part 3, “Contractors and Subcontractors on Public Building or Public Work Financed in Whole or in Part by Loans or Grants from the United States.”
b. Report all suspected or reported violations to the award administration office identified in the award notice cover sheet of this award.
4.
Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act for work involving mechanics or laborers.
In each contract for an amount greater than $100,000 that involves the employment of mechanics or laborers and is not a type of contract excepted under 40 U.S.C. 3701, you must include the clauses specified in Department of Labor (DoL) regulations at 29 CFR 5.5(b) to require use of wage standards that comply with the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 CFR, Subtitle II, Part A, Chapter 37), as implemented by DoL at 29 CFR part 5, “Labor Standards Provisions Applicable to Contracts Governing Federally Financed and Assisted Construction.”
5.
Patents and inventions.
If you procure the services of a nonprofit organization, small business firm, or other entity for the performance of experimental, developmental or research work, you must include in the contract the clause prescribed in Section B of PROP Article VI to establish contractual requirements regarding subject inventions resulting from the contract and provide for Federal Government rights in those inventions.
6.
Clean air and water requirements.
You must:
a. In each contract for an amount greater than $150,000 under this award, include a clause requiring the contractor to comply with applicable provisions of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q), Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251-1387), and standards, orders, or regulations issued under those acts; and
b. Report any violations of the Acts, standards, orders, or regulations to both the award administration office identified in this award and the appropriate regional office of the Environmental Protection Agency.
7.
Nonprocurement suspension and debarment.
Unless you have an alternate method for requiring the contractor's compliance, you must include a clause in each contract for an amount equal to or greater than $25,000 for other than federally required audit services and in each contract for federally required audit services regardless of dollar value to require the contractor to comply with OMB guidance on nonprocurement suspension and debarment in 2 CFR part 180, as implemented by DoD regulations at 2 CFR part 1125.
8.
Byrd Amendment anti-lobbying requirements.
In each contract for an amount exceeding $100,000, you must include a clause requiring the contractor to submit to you the certification and any disclosure forms regarding lobbying that are required under 31 U.S.C. 3152, as implemented by the DoD at 32 CFR part 28.
9.
Purchase of recovered materials by States or political subdivisions of States.
In each contract under which the contractor may purchase items designated in Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations in 40 CFR part 247, subpart B, you must include a clause requiring the contractor to comply with applicable requirements in those EPA regulations, which implement Section 6002 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6962).
10.
Fly America requirements.
In each contract under which funds provided under this award might be used for international air travel for the transportation of people or property, you must include a clause requiring the contractor to:
a. Comply with the International Air Transportation Fair Competitive Practices Act of 1974 (49 U.S.C. 40118, also known as the “Fly America” Act), as implemented at 41 CFR 301-10.131 through 301-10.143. The statute and regulations provide that U.S. Government-financed international air travel of passengers and transportation of personal effects or property must use a U.S. Flag air carrier or be performed under a cost-sharing arrangement with a U.S. carrier, if such service is available; and
b. Include the requirements of the Fly America Act in all subcontracts that might involve international air transportation.
11.
Cargo preference for United States flag vessels.
In each contract under which equipment, material, or commodities may be shipped by oceangoing vessels, you must include the clause specified in Department of Transportation regulations at 46 CFR 381.7(b) to require that at least 50 percent of equipment, materials or commodities purchased or otherwise obtained with Federal funds under this award, and transported by ocean vessel, be transported on privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels, if available.
Pt. 1134

# PART 1134—FINANCIAL, PROGRAMMATIC, AND PROPERTY REPORTING: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Sec.
1134.1
Purpose of this part.
1134.2
Applicability of this part.
1134.3
Exceptions from requirements in this part.
1134.4
Organization of this part.

# Subpart A—Performance Management, Monitoring, and Reporting (REP Article I)
1134.100
Purpose of REP Article I.
1134.105
Performance reporting for construction awards.
1134.110
Performance reporting for non-construction awards.
1134.115
Content and forms, formats, or data elements for interim and final performance reporting under non-construction awards.
1134.120
Frequency, reporting periods, and due dates for interim performance reporting under non-construction awards.
1134.125
Due dates and reporting periods for final performance reports under non-construction awards.
1134.130
Requesting extensions of due dates for performance reports.
1134.135
Reporting significant developments.
1134.140
Performance reporting procedures.
1134.145
Site visits.

# Subpart B—Financial Reporting (REP Article II)
1134.200
Purpose of REP Article II.
1134.205
Reporting forms, formats, or data elements.
1134.210
Content of REP Article II.

# Subpart C—Reporting on Property (REP Article III)
1134.300
Purposes of REP Article III.
1134.305
Real property: reports, notifications, requests, and accounting.
1134.310
Equipment and supplies: reports, notifications, requests, and accounting.
1134.315
Federally owned property: inventory, notifications, and requests.
1134.320
Intangible property: disclosures, reports, and requests.

# Subpart D—Reporting on Subawards and Executive Compensation (REP Article IV)
1134.400
Purpose of REP Article IV.
1134.405
Content of REP Article IV.

# Subpart E—Other Reporting (REP Article V)
1134.500
Purpose of REP Article V
1134.505
Content of REP Article V.
Appendix A to Part 1134—Terms and conditions for REP Article I, “Performance management, monitoring, and reporting”
Appendix B to Part 1134—Terms and conditions for REP Article II, “Financial reporting”
Appendix C to Part 1134—Terms and conditions for REP Article III, “Reporting on property”
Appendix D to Part 1134—Terms and conditions for REP Article IV, “Reporting on subawards and executive compensation”
Appendix E to Part 1134—Terms and conditions for REP Article V, “Other reporting”

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 10 U.S.C. 113.

# Source:
85 FR 51171, Aug. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1134.1
Purpose of this part.
(a) This part specifies standard wording of general terms and conditions concerning recipients' reporting requirements.
(b) It thereby implements OMB guidance on reporting in 2 CFR part 170 and the following portions of 2 CFR part 200, as they relate to general terms and conditions of grants and cooperative agreements:
(1) 2 CFR 200.301 and 200.327 through 200.329; and
(2) 2 CFR 200.300(b) as it relates to subaward reporting, 200.312(a) as it relates to inventories of federally owned property, and 200.343(a) as it relates to financial and performance reporting.
§ 1134.2
Applicability of this part.
The types of awards and entities to which this part and other parts in this subchapter apply are described in the subchapter overview at 2 CFR 1126.2.
§ 1134.3
Exceptions from requirements of this part.
Exceptions are permitted from the administrative requirements in this part only as described at 2 CFR 1126.3.
§ 1134.4
Organization of this part.
(a) The content of this part is organized into subparts and associated appendices.
(1) Each subpart provides direction to DoD Components on how to construct one article of general terms and conditions for grants and cooperative agreements.
(2) For each subpart, there is a corresponding appendix with standard wording for terms and conditions of the article addressed by the subpart. Terms
and conditions address rights and responsibilities of the Federal Government and recipients.
(b) A DoD Component must use the wording provided in each appendix in accordance with the direction in the corresponding subpart. That direction may permit DoD Components to vary from the standard wording in some situations.
(c) Table 1 shows which article of general terms and conditions may be found in each of appendices A through D to this part (with the associated direction to DoD Components in Subparts A through D, respectively):
Table 1 to Paragraph
(c)
In . . .
You will find terms and conditions specifying recipients' rights and responsibilities related to . . .
That would appear in an award within REP Article . . .
Appendix A
Performance management, monitoring, and reporting
I.
Appendix B
Financial reporting
II.
Appendix C
Reporting on property
III.
Appendix D
Reporting on subawards and executive compensation
IV.
Appendix E
Other reporting
V.

# Subpart A—Performance Management, Monitoring, and Reporting (REP Article I)
§ 1134.100
Purpose of REP Article I.
REP Article I of the general terms and conditions specifies requirements related to recipient reporting on program performance. It thereby implements OMB guidance for grants and cooperative agreements in:
(a) 2 CFR 200.328; and
(b) Portions of 2 CFR 200.301 and 200.343(a) that relate to performance reporting.
§ 1134.105
Performance reporting for construction awards.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.328(c) notes that agencies rely heavily on onsite technical inspections and certified percentage of completion data to monitor progress under construction grants and cooperative agreements and states that agencies may require additional performance reports only when considered necessary.
(b)
DoD implementation.
DoD Components may require performance reports under construction awards only when necessary and, to reduce recipient burdens, should coordinate the performance reporting with financial reporting to the maximum extent practicable.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
(1) If a DoD Component has general terms and conditions specifically for construction awards and does not need performance reports for those awards, it:
(i) Should reserve Sections A through D of REP Article I in those terms and conditions;
(ii) Must follow the specifications in §§ 1134.135 and 1134.145 to include the wording appendix A to this part provides for Sections E and G of REP Article I in those terms and conditions, in order to require recipients to promptly report significant developments and reserve the DoD Component's right to make site visits.
(iii) Must follow the specifications in § 1134.140 to insert wording in Section F of REP Article I in those terms and conditions, to tell recipients where and how to submit any reports of significant developments.
(2) If a DoD Component has general terms and conditions specifically for construction awards and determines that it needs performance reports for those awards:
(i) It may tailor the template and content that appendix A to this part provides for Sections A through D of REP Article I in those terms and conditions, as needed to specify the reporting requirements or, as appropriate, instead integrate those requirements into REP Article II on financial reporting. The form, format, or data elements that the DoD Component specifies for any of those performance reports must comply with requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, as implemented by OMB at 5 CFR
part 1320, to use OMB-approved information collections if more than 9 recipients will be subject to the reporting requirement.
(ii) It must follow the specifications in §§ 1134.135 through 1134.145 concerning Sections E through G of REP Article I in those terms and conditions, as described in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
§ 1134.110
Performance reporting for non-construction awards.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.328(f) states that an agency may waive any performance report that it does not need.
(b)
DoD implementation
—(1)
Interim reports.
DoD Components should waive requirements for interim performance reports under non-construction awards, including research awards, only when program managers have an alternative source for the information that the reports provide in support of the need for technical program oversight during the period of performance.
(2)
Final reports
—(i)
Research.
DoD Components may not waive requirements for final performance reports under research awards, even when program managers have other sources of the information they contain. A primary purpose of a final report under a research award is to document the overall project or program well enough to serve as a long-term reference from which others may understand the purpose, scope, approach, results or outcomes, and conclusions or recommendations of the research.
(ii)
Non-construction awards other than research.
DoD Components should consider the long-term value of final performance reports for documenting program outcomes, as well as any near-term value, before waiving requirements for final reports under other non-construction awards.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
Appendix A to this part provides a template for REP Article I of the general terms and conditions of research awards or other non-construction awards under which performance reports are required. A DoD Component must either use the wording that appendix A provides or insert wording into the template, in accordance with §§ 1134.115 through 1134.145, to:
(1) Specify the content and form, format, or data elements recipients must use for interim and final performance reporting (see § 1134.115);
(2) Specify the reporting frequency, reporting periods, and due dates for interim performance reports (see § 1134.120);
(3) Specify the due dates and reporting periods for final performance reports (see § 1134.125);
(4) Specify that recipients may request extensions of due dates for performance reports (see § 1134.130);
(5) Require recipients to report significant developments (see § 1134.135);
(6) Specify reporting procedures (see § 1134.140); and
(7) Reserve the DoD Component's right to make site visits (see § 1134.145).
§ 1134.115
Content and forms, formats, or data elements for interim and final performance reporting under non-construction awards.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in:
(1) 2 CFR 200.301 and 200.328(b)(2) state that Federal awarding agencies must require recipients to use standard OMB-approved information collections for reporting performance information.
(2) 2 CFR 200.328(b)(2)(i) through (iii) list types of information that performance reports under non-construction grants and cooperative agreements will contain, as appropriate, unless other collections are approved by OMB.
(b)
DoD implementation.
(1) The content of the information collections that a DoD Component's general terms and conditions specify for non-construction awards must include the elements listed in 2 CFR 200.328(b)(2)(i) through (iii) that are appropriate to the projects or programs subject to those general terms and conditions.
(2) Forms, formats, and data elements that a DoD Component's general terms and conditions specify for performance reporting under non-construction awards must comply with requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 to use OMB-approved information collections, as implemented by OMB at 5 CFR part 1320.
(3) To the maximum extent practicable, a DoD Component's general
terms and conditions for non-construction awards must specify that recipients use Governmentwide standard forms, formats, and data elements that also are used by other Federal agencies for similar programs, recipients, and types of awards (
e.g.,
the Research Performance Progress Report format or any successor to it that OMB clears for interim performance progress reports under research awards to institutions of higher education and nonprofit organizations).
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, a DoD Component must insert wording in lieu of the reserved Section A of REP Article I of its general terms and conditions for non-construction awards to specify the form, format, or data elements that recipients must use for interim and final performance reports. Section A of REP Article I may specify a different requirement for final performance reports than interim reports.
§ 1134.120
Frequency, reporting periods, and due dates for interim performance reporting under non-construction awards.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.328(b)(1) addresses performance reporting frequency under grants and cooperative agreements and due dates.
(1)
Reporting frequency.
The OMB guidance states that interim performance reports should be no less frequent than annually, nor more frequent than quarterly except in unusual circumstances (
e.g.,
when more frequent reporting is necessary for effective program monitoring).
(2)
Due dates.
The OMB guidance states that due dates for interim performance reports must be:
(i) 30 calendar days after the end of the reporting period if interim reports are required quarterly or semiannually; and
(ii) 90 calendar days after the end of the reporting period if interim reports are required annually, unless the agency elects to require the annual reports before the anniversary dates of multiyear awards.
(b)
DoD implementation.
DoD implements the OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.328(b)(1) concerning frequency and due dates of interim performance reports through award terms and conditions, with the following clarifications and added specifications concerning reporting periods:
(1)
Reporting frequency.
DoD Components rarely, if ever, should require recipients to submit interim performance reports more often than annually for basic research awards. Before requiring interim performance reports more frequently than annually for other research awards, DoD Components should carefully consider whether the benefits of more frequent reporting are sufficient to offset the potential for slowing the rate of research progress, due to diversion of researchers' time from research performance to report preparation.
(2)
Reporting periods.
For research awards, a DoD Component should not require any recipient to submit interim performance reports on a cumulative basis—
i.e.,
the second and any subsequent performance report should address only the most recent reporting period and not also address previous reporting periods covered by earlier interim performance reports.
(3)
Due dates.
If a DoD Component requires an interim report more frequently than quarterly due to unusual circumstances, as described in 2 CFR 200.328(a)(1) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the DoD Component must specify that the due date for the report is 30 days after the end of the reporting period. For all other interim reports, DoD Components must specify due dates in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component must insert wording in lieu of the reserved Section B of REP Article I of its general terms and conditions for non-construction awards to specify:
(1) The frequency with which recipients must submit interim performance reports;
(2) The reporting period each interim performance report must cover; and
(3) The due date for each interim performance report, stated as the number of calendar days after the end of the reporting period.
§ 1134.125
Due dates and reporting periods for final performance reports under non-construction awards.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.328(b)(1) states that each final performance report will be due 90 calendar days after the end date of the period of performance. It also states that an agency may extend the due date if a recipient submits a justified request.
(b)
DoD implementation
—(1)
Due dates.
Consistent with 2 CFR 200.328(b)(1):
(i)
General.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify that the due date for each recipient's submission of its final performance report is:
(A) 90 calendar days after the end of the period of performance for non-construction awards other than research.
(B) 120 calendar days after the end of the period of performance for research awards.
(ii)
Exception.
A DoD Component may pre-approve a 30-day extension to the due date in its general terms and conditions for non-construction awards other than research by specifying that each recipient's final performance report is due 120 calendar days after the end of the period of performance. Doing so would be especially helpful to recipients that have subawards and need time to assimilate subrecipient inputs into the final report for the project or program as a whole.
(2)
Reporting periods
—(i)
Non-construction awards other than research.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions for non-construction awards other than research may require each recipient to submit a final report that is cumulative and covers the entire period of performance, as that may more effectively document the project or program for future reference.
(ii)
Research.
Final reports for research awards must be cumulative (
i.e.,
each final report must cover the entire period of performance under the award and not just the period since the previous interim performance report) because a primary purpose of a final report for a research award is to document the overall project or program, as described in § 1134.110(b)(2).
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, a DoD Component in its general terms and conditions for non-construction awards:
(1) Must either:
(i) Specify that the due date for final performance reports is either 90 or 120 calendar days after the end of the period of performance, as indicated in paragraph (b)(1)(i), by including the wording that appendix A to this part provides for paragraph C.1 of REP Article I and modifying the bracketed language in that wording by removing the brackets and showing only the number of days (
i.e.,
90 or 120 calendar days) appropriate for the type of awards; or
(ii) Pre-approve a 30-day extension to the 90 calendar day due date, as described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section for non-construction awards other than research, by including the wording that appendix A to this part provides for paragraph C.1 of REP Article I and modifying the bracketed language in that wording by removing the brackets and showing only “120 calendar days” in lieu of “90 calendar days.”
(2) Must insert wording in lieu of the reserved paragraph C.2 of REP Article I, to specify the reporting period for final reports (
e.g.,
that research awards require cumulative final reports).
§ 1134.130
Requesting extensions of due dates for performance reports.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.328(b)(1) states that, if a recipient submits a justified request for an extension in the due date for any interim or final performance report under a grant or cooperative agreement, an agency may extend the due date.
(b)
DoD implementation.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions for non-construction awards must specify that a recipient may request an extension of the due date for interim or final performance reports. DoD Components should grant requests that provide adequate justification. For a DoD Component that pre-approves a 30-day extension of due dates for final performance reports in its general terms and conditions, as described in § 1134.125(b)(1)(ii) and (c)(1)(ii), any award-specific extensions would be beyond the pre-approved 30-day extension.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions for non-construction awards must include the wording that appendix A to this part provides for Section D of REP Article I on extensions of performance reporting due dates.
§ 1134.135
Reporting significant developments.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.328(d) states that a recipient must promptly notify the awarding agency about significant developments under grants and cooperative agreements.
(b)
DoD implementation.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must require recipients to report significant developments, as described in 2 CFR 200.328(d).
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording that appendix A to this part provides for Section E of REP Article I on reporting of significant developments.
§ 1134.140
Performance reporting procedures.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must inform recipients about performance reporting procedures.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component in its general terms and conditions must insert wording in Section F of REP Article I (which is reserved in the template for REP Article I that appendix A to this part provides), to specify:
(1) The office or offices to which a recipient must submit its interim and final performance reports, any requests in due dates for those reports, and any reports of significant developments; and
(2) How the recipient is to submit those reports and requests (
e.g.,
email or other electronic submission method).
(3) For research awards, component must assure that the recipient final report complies with the distribution and marking requirements of DoD Manual 3200.14, Volume 1. This includes the requirement that all significant scientific or technological findings, recommendations, and results derived from DoD endeavors—which shall include the final performance report at a minimum—are recorded and provided to Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC). Follow guidance in (b)(1) to inform recipients as the submission and distribution requirements (
i.e.
Component may choose to receive the report and submit to DTIC themselves or provide instructions to recipient on submission to DTIC).
(4) Access to Research Results
(i) For purposes of this term and condition, the following definition applies:
Final Peer-Reviewed Manuscript:
The final version of a peer-reviewed article for a professional journal publication disclosing the results of scientific research which is authored or co-authored by the recipient or funded, in whole or in part, with funds from a DoD award, that includes all modifications from the publishing peer review process, and all graphics and supplemental material associated with the article.
(ii) The recipient shall ensure that any Final Peer-Reviewed Manuscript is submitted to the Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC) repository, currently at
www.dtic.mil.
Ensure that the Final Peer-Reviewed Manuscript is submitted when it is accepted for publication, and when the final title and date of publication are known.
§ 1134.145
Site visits.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.328(e) states that a Federal awarding agency may make site visits as warranted by program needs.
(b)
DoD implementation.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must state that the Federal Government reserves the right to make site visits as warranted.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording that appendix A to this part provides for Section G of REP Article I concerning site visits.

# Subpart B—Financial Reporting (REP Article II)
§ 1134.200
Purpose of REP Article II.
REP Article II of the general terms and conditions specifies requirements related to financial reporting. It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.327 and the portions of 2 CFR 200.301 and 200.343(a) that are specific to financial reporting under grants and cooperative agreements.
§ 1134.205
Reporting forms, formats, or data elements.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.327 states that Federal awarding agencies may require recipients to use only the standard OMB-approved Governmentwide data elements for collection of financial information, unless OMB approves other forms, formats, or data elements for financial information collection.
(b)
DoD implementation.
DoD Components must collect financial information from recipients using OMB-approved forms, formats, or data elements.
(1) Unless current approvals expire, approved financial information collections include the Federal Financial Report (SF-425) and Request for Advance or Reimbursement (SF-270). In the future, they would include any additional information collections that OMB approves.
(2) For all but the recipient's final financial report, a DoD Component may rely on financial information the recipient provides on the SF-270 or other OMB-approved payment request form, format, or data elements if that financial information is sufficient to meet the DoD Component's needs. For the final report, the DoD Component must require the recipient to use the SF-425 or other OMB-approved financial information collection.
(3) A DoD Component must obtain approval for any variations from OMB-approved forms or formats, including use of additional or substitute data elements or modification of the associated instructions for recipient entities submitting the information.
§ 1134.210
Content of REP Article II.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify what financial information recipients are required to report and how often, when, where, and how they must report.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
Appendix B to this part provides a template into which a DoD Component must insert wording to specify the form, format, or data elements recipients must use for financial reporting; the frequency, reporting periods, and due dates for their financial reports (stated as the number of days after the end of the reporting period); and where and how they must submit the information.
(2)
Required reporting form, format, or data elements for interim and final financial reports.
In Section A of REP Article II, which is reserved in appendix B to this part, a DoD Component must insert wording to specify the OMB-approved form, format, or data elements that recipients must use for financial reporting and the website where they can be found. The section may provide a different requirement for final financial reports than interim reports during the period of performance if the DoD Component needs less information on interim reports than is needed on the final report.
(3)
Interim financial reports: Frequency, reporting periods, and due dates.
In Section B of REP Article II, which is reserved in appendix B to this part, a DoD Component must insert wording to specify the frequency with which recipients must submit interim financial reports, as well as the reporting period each report must cover and when it is due. However, this section of the article may waive interim reporting requirements if the DoD Component relies on information already provided with payment requests (
e.g.,
on the SF-270).
(i) Consistent with OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.327, the reporting frequency may be no less often than annually and no more frequently than quarterly except in unusual circumstances (
e.g.,
a need for more frequent reporting for monitoring program performance, in which case financial reporting should
be coordinated with performance reporting).
(ii) The reporting frequency, reporting periods, and due dates must conform with any guidance on those aspects of financial reporting in the OMB-approved instructions accompanying the form, format, or data elements used.
(iii) When a DoD Component's general terms and conditions provide for advance payments based on predetermined schedules—which is very rarely if ever appropriate for research awards—the terms and conditions must provide for quarterly reporting. This will enable post-award administrators to closely monitor recipients' balances of cash on hand for compliance with Governmentwide cash management standards.
(4)
Final financial report.
Appendix B to this part provides wording for Section C of REP Article II to implement OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.343(a) as it applies to final financial reports. Given that 2 CFR part 200 provides 90 days for subrecipients to liquidate subaward obligations and submit their final financial reports to recipients, the wording in appendix B gives recipients 120 days to submit final financial reports to DoD post-award administration offices. That provides a reasonable amount of time for recipients to incorporate any information they need from final subaward reports. A DoD Component may alter the wording or supplement it if the DoD Component has a basis to do so in a statute or a regulation published in the Code of Federal Regulations.
(5)
Extensions of due dates.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the wording for Section D of REP Article II that appendix B to this part provides to authorize recipients to request extensions of due dates for interim or final financial reports.
(6)
Where and how to submit financial reports.
In Section E of REP Article II, which is reserved in appendix B to this part, a DoD Component must insert wording to specify the DoD official or office to whom a recipient must submit its interim and final financial reports and the method it must use to do so (
e.g.,
email or other electronic submission method).

# Subpart C—Reporting on Property (REP Article III)
§ 1134.300
Purposes of REP Article III.
REP Article III of the general terms and conditions provides a consolidated source that sets out required reports, notifications, requests, and accountings related to federally owned property and property that is acquired or improved under awards. The article is:
(a) The original source of requirements for recipients to:
(1) Submit periodic status reports and notifications of critical changes for real property (in paragraphs A.1 and A.2 of the article), which thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.329;
(2) Submit an annual inventory of federally owned property (in paragraph C.1 of the article), which thereby partially implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.312(a);
(3) Provide information on request about copyrighted works and data produced under awards (in paragraph D.2 of the article).
(b) A secondary source provided for the convenience of recipients and DoD post-award administrators that lists and refers to the original sources of requirements for recipients to:
(1) Request disposition instructions and account at closeout for real property (in paragraphs A.3 and A.4 of the article), the original sources of which are in PROP Article III and OAR Article VI;
(2) Provide notifications of loss, damage, or theft and requests for disposition instructions for equipment (in paragraphs B.2 and B.3 of the article), the original sources of which are in PROP Articles II and IV, respectively;
(3) Account at closeout for equipment and supplies (in paragraph B.4 of the article), the original sources of which are in OAR Article VI and PROP Article IV;
(4) Provide notifications of loss, damage, or theft and requests for disposition instructions for federally owned property (in paragraphs C.2 and C.3 of the article), the original sources of
which are in PROP Articles II and V, respectively;
(5) Disclose and report on inventions developed under awards (in paragraph D.1), the original source of which is in PROP Article VI; and
(6) Request disposition instructions for intangible property acquired, but not developed or produced, under awards (in paragraph D.3 of the article), the original source of which is in PROP Article VI.
§ 1134.305
Real property: reports, notifications, requests, and accounting.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify the real property reporting requirements described in § 1134.300(a)(1) and provide references to the related requirements described in § 1134.300(b)(1).
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the requirement described in paragraph (a) of this section, the wording of Section A of REP Article III of a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must comply with either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.
(1)
General.
Unless a DoD Component determines that there will be no acquisition or improvement of real property under awards using its general terms and conditions, those general terms and conditions must include the wording appendix C to this part provides for Section A of REP Article III, to which the DoD Component:
(i) Must add wording in lieu of the reserved paragraph A.1.a to specify how often a recipient must submit periodic status reports and how long it is required to do so (which should be the duration of the Federal interest in the real property). The wording of paragraph A.1.a must be consistent with OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.329, which provides different options for reporting frequency depending on the duration of the Federal interest in the real property.
(ii) Must add wording in lieu of the reserved paragraph A.1.b to specify the due date for each periodic status report in terms of the number of calendar days after the end of the period covered by the report (
e.g.,
a report on the status of the property as of September 30 might be due 30 calendar days after that date).
(iii) May provide wording in lieu of the reserved paragraph A.1.c if there are other instructions—
e.g.,
a form, format, or information elements that a recipient must use (which must be cleared by OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act, as implemented by OMB at 5 CFR part 1320) or a particular office to which reports must be submitted, especially if reporting will continue beyond closeout of the award under which the real property was acquired or improved.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component may reserve Section A of REP Article III if it determines that there will be no acquisition or improvement of real property under awards using its general terms and conditions.
§ 1134.310
Equipment and supplies: reports, notifications, requests, and accounting.
(a)
Requirement.
REP Article III of a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must clarify that there is no requirement for routine periodic reporting about equipment acquired under an award and provide the references described in § 1134.300(b)(2) and (3) to requirements in other articles for notifications, requests, and accounting related to equipment and supplies.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the requirement described in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix C to this part provides for Section B of REP Article III.
§ 1134.315
Federally owned property: inventory, notifications, and requests.
(a)
Requirement.
REP Article III of a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify the reporting requirement described in § 1134.300(a)(2) and provide the references described in § 1134.300(b)(4) to requirements in other articles for notifications and requests related to federally owned property.
(b)
Policy.
(1) Except as provided by statute or in regulations adopted in the Code of Federal Regulations after opportunity for public comment, a DoD Component may not specify:
(i) Due dates for the annual inventories of federally owned property; or
(ii) Forms, formats, or specific data elements for the inventories, notifications, or requests for disposition instructions. Any form, format, or data elements that a DoD Component specifies must be cleared by OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act, as implemented by OMB at 5 CFR part 1320.
(2) Not specifying due dates, forms, formats, or data elements provides flexibility for recipients and DoD post-award administrators to handle these requirements in ways that reduce burdens and costs. For example, a recipient may arrange with a post-award administration office to submit one consolidated inventory annually for federally owned property under all of the awards it receives that are administered by that office, using a format its property management system already generates.
(c)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
To implement the requirement described in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix C to this part provides for Section C of REP Article III. The DoD Component may add wording on due dates or on forms, formats, or data elements only as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component may reserve Section C of REP Article III if it determines that no recipients of awards using its general terms and conditions, or subrecipients of subawards under those awards, will be accountable for federally owned property under those awards or subawards.
§ 1134.320
Intangible property: disclosures, reports, and requests.
(a)
Requirement.
REP Article III of a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify the requirement described in § 1134.300(a)(3) and provide the references described in § 1134.300(b)(5) and (6) to requirements in other articles for disclosures, reports, and requests related to intangible property.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
To implement the requirement described in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix C to this part provides for Section D of REP Article III.
(2)
Exceptions.
A DoD Component may reserve:
(i) Section D of REP Article III if it determines that no recipients of awards using its general terms and conditions, or subrecipients of subawards under those awards, will have any intangible property for which they will be accountable to the Federal Government; or
(ii) Any of paragraphs D.1 through D.3, if it determines that no recipients of awards using its general terms and conditions, or subrecipients of subawards under those awards, will be accountable to the Federal Government for the particular types of intangible property addressed by those paragraphs.

# Subpart D—Reporting on Subawards and Executive Compensation (REP Article IV)
§ 1134.400
Purpose of REP Article IV.
REP Article IV of the general terms and conditions specifies requirements for recipients to report information about subawards and executive compensation.
§ 1134.405
Content of REP Article IV.
(a)
Source of the reporting requirements.
The requirements for recipients to report information about subawards and executive compensation originate in the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006, as amended (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 170 implements those statutory requirements and appendix A to that part provides standard Governmentwide wording of an award provision.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the reporting requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix E to this part provides as REP Article IV.

# Subpart E—Other Reporting (REP Article V)
§ 1134.500
Purpose of REP Article V.
REP Article V of the general terms and conditions specifies requirements for recipients to provide any type of report not addressed in REP Articles I-IV.
§ 1134.505
Content of REP Article V.
(a)
Source of reporting requirement.
Any requirement in a DoD Component's general terms and conditions for recipients to provide a type of report not addressed in REP Articles I-IV must:
(1) Have a basis in a statute or regulation adopted in the
Federal Register
after an opportunity for public comment; and
(2) Use a form/format that has been approved by OMB under the PRA, as implemented by OMB in 5 CFR part 1320.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
(1) To implement any reporting requirement described in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include the following content in REP Article V, consistent with the PRA approval. Otherwise, REP Article V must be reserved.
(a) The name of the report and where a recipient can obtain it;
(b) For an interim report, the frequency with which it must be submitted and due date(s);
(c) For a final report, whether the report is due 90 days or, if the DoD Component has pre-approved a 30-day extension, 120 days after the end of the period of performance; and
(d) To what DoD office/official the report(s) must be submitted.
(2) If there is more than one such report, the DoD Component must show the information for each in separate sections of the article.
Pt. 1134, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1134—Terms and Conditions for REP Article I, “Performance Management, Monitoring, and Reporting”
For the general terms and conditions of construction awards, unless a DoD Component reserves any sections or inserts or modifies wording, as specified in § 1134.105 for Sections A through D of the article, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for REP Article I.
For the general terms and conditions of non-construction awards (§§ 1134.115 through 1134.145), a DoD Component must use the following wording for REP Article I and, as specified in §§ 1134.115 through 1134.125 and § 1134.140, insert or modify wording, depending on whether the terms and conditions are for research and/or other non-construction awards.

# REP Article I. Performance Management, Monitoring, and Reporting. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Required reporting form, format, or data elements for interim and final performance reports.
[Reserved]
Section B. Frequency, reporting periods, and due dates for interim performance reports.
[Reserved]
Section C. Due date and reporting period for final performance report.
1.
Due date.
You must submit the final performance report under this award no later than [90 calendar days for non-construction awards other than research or 120 calendar days for research awards] after the end date of the period of performance unless we approve an extension of that due date as described in Section D of this article.
2.
Reporting period.
[Reserved]
Section D. Extensions of due dates.
You may request extensions of the due dates that Sections B and C of this Article specify for interim and final reports, respectively. You must provide the reasons for your request and we will approve extensions that are adequately justified.
Section E. Reporting significant developments.
You must report the following information to us as soon as you become aware of it:
1. Problems, delays, or adverse conditions that will materially impair your ability to meet the objectives of this award. This disclosure must include a statement of the action taken, or contemplated, and any assistance needed to resolve the situation.
2. Favorable developments which will enable you to meet schedules and objectives sooner or at less cost than anticipated or produce more or different beneficial results than originally planned.
Section F. Performance reporting procedures.
[Reserved]
Section G. Site visits.
We reserve the right to make site visits as warranted to monitor program performance under this award.
Pt. 1134, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1134—Terms and Conditions for REP Article II, “Financial Reporting”
A DoD Component must in its general terms and conditions complete the template provided in this appendix for Sections A, B,
and E of REP Article II by inserting or modifying wording, as specified in § 1134.210, and use the following wording for Sections C (unless alternate wording is permitted by § 1134.210) and D of the article.

# REP Article II. Financial Reporting. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Required reporting form, format, or data elements for interim and final financial reports.
[Reserved]
Section B. Interim financial reports: Frequency, reporting periods, and due dates.
[Reserved]
Section C. Final financial report.
You must submit the final financial report under this award no later than 120 calendar days after the end date of the period of performance.
Section D. Extensions of due dates.
You may request extensions of the due dates that Sections B and C of this Article specify for interim and final reports, respectively. You must provide the reasons for your request, and we will approve extensions that are adequately justified.
Section E. Where and how to submit financial reports.
[Reserved]
Pt. 1134, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 1134—Terms and Conditions for REP Article III, “Reporting on Property”
Unless a DoD Component reserves REP Article III in its entirety as specified in § 1134.305, or reserves Sections C or D (or any paragraph in those sections) as specified in §§ 1134.315 and 1134.320, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include a completed Section A (as specified in § 1134.305) and use the following wording for the remainder of REP Article III.

# REP Article III. Reporting on Property (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Real property.
Paragraphs A.1 through A.4 apply to real property for which you are accountable under this award, for as long as there is a Federal interest in the property (whether that interest is due to you or a subrecipient having acquired or improved the property under this award, or a transfer of the accountability for the property to this award from another award).
1.
Periodic status reports.
You must submit periodic status reports, as follows:
a.
Frequency and duration of reporting requirement.
[Reserved]
b.
Due dates.
[Reserved]
c.
Other submission instructions.
[Reserved]
2.
Notifications of critical changes.
You must notify the award administration office of any critical change in the status of real property as soon as feasible after you become aware of it. A critical change is any event with a significant adverse impact on the condition or value of the property, such as damage due to fire; flood, hurricane, or other severe weather; earthquake; or accident.
3.
Requests for disposition instructions.
You must comply with applicable requirements in PROP Article III to request disposition instructions, either during the period of performance or at closeout.
4.
Closeout accounting.
You must account to the award administration office for real property at the time of closeout of the award, as required by Section D of OAR Article VI.
Section B. Equipment and supplies.
Paragraphs B.1 through B.4 apply to equipment or supplies for which you are accountable under this award and in which there is a Federal interest (whether that interest is due to you or a subrecipient having acquired or improved the property under this award, or a transfer of the accountability for the property to this award from another award).
1.
Periodic status report.
There is no requirement for periodic reporting during the period of performance.
2.
Notifications of loss, damage, or theft.
You must comply with applicable requirements in PROP Article II governing your property management system to promptly notify the award administration office of any loss, damage, or theft of equipment.
3.
Requests for disposition instructions.
You must comply with applicable requirements in PROP Article IV to request disposition instructions for equipment, either during the period of performance or at closeout.
4.
Closeout accounting.
a.
Equipment.
You must account to the award administration office for equipment at the time of closeout of this award, as required by Section D of OAR Article VI.
b.
Supplies.
If you have a residual inventory of unused supplies that meets the criteria specified in paragraph E.2 of PROP Article IV, you must as part of your closeout accounting arrange with the award administration office for the compensation that paragraph specifies for the Federal interest in the supplies.
Section C. Federally owned property.
Paragraphs C.1 through C.3 apply to federally owned property for which you are accountable under this award.
1.
Annual inventory.
You must submit annually to the award administration office an inventory of federally owned property.
2.
Notifications of loss, damage, or theft.
As provided in PROP Article II governing your property management system, you must promptly notify the award administration office of any loss, damage, or theft of federally owned property.
3.
Requests for disposition instructions.
You must comply with requirements in Section B of PROP Article V to request disposition instructions, either during the period of performance or at closeout.
4.
Closeout accounting.
Your requests for disposition instructions for federally owned property, as described in paragraph C.3 of this section, satisfy the need to account for federally owned property at closeout (see Section D of OAR Article VI).
Section D. Intangible property.
Paragraphs D.1 through D.3 apply to intangible property for which you are accountable under this award.
1.
Inventions developed under the award.
You must submit all reports on subject inventions developed under this award that are required by the modified Governmentwide patent rights award provision specified in Section B of PROP Article VI, which include a disclosure of each subject invention and a final report listing all such subject inventions.
2.
Copyrights and data.
You are not required to submit periodic reports about data produced under the award or about works for which you acquired ownership under this award, either by development or otherwise, and in which copyright was asserted. However, because of the DoD/Federal Government's rights in the works and data that Sections A and C of PROP Article VI specify, you must provide information about the works and data if we request it.
3.
Intangible property acquired, but not developed or produced, under the award.
You must comply with requirements in Section D of PROP Article VI to request disposition instructions for intangible property acquired, but not developed or produced, under the award.
Pt. 1134, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 1134—Terms and Conditions for REP Article IV, “Reporting on Subawards and Executive Compensation”
As specified in § 1134.405, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for REP Article IV.

# REP Article IV. Reporting on Subawards and Executive Compensation (DECEMBER 2014)
You must report information about subawards and executive compensation as specified in the award provision in appendix A to 2 CFR part 170, “Reporting subaward and executive compensation information,” modified as follows:
1. To accommodate any future designation of a different Governmentwide website for reporting subaward information, the website “
http://www.fsrs.gov”
cited in paragraphs a.2.i. and a.3 of the award provision is replaced by the phrase “
http://www.fsrs.gov
or successor OMB-designated website for reporting subaward information”;
2. To accommodate any future designation of a different Governmentwide website for reporting executive compensation information, the website “
http://www.sam.gov”
cited in paragraph b.2.i. of the award provision is replaced by the phrase “
https://www.sam.gov
or successor OMB-designated website for reporting information on total compensation”; and
3. The reference to “Sec. __.210 of the attachment to OMB Circular A-133, `Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations' ” in paragraph e.3.ii of the award provision is replaced by “2 CFR 200.330, as implemented in SUB Article I of this award”.
Pt. 1134, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 1134—Terms and Conditions for REP Article V, “Other Reporting”
In accordance with § 1134.505 of this part, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must either reserve REP Article V or provide the information required by that section for each applicable report.

# REP Article V. Other Reporting. (Date) [Reserved]
Pt. 1136

# PART 1136—OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Sec.
1136.1
Purpose of this part.
1136.2
Applicability of this part.
1136.3
Exceptions from requirements of this part.
1136.4
Organization of this part.

# Subpart A—Submitting and Maintaining Recipient Information (OAR Article I)
1136.100
Purpose of OAR Article I.
1136.105
Content of OAR Article I.

# Subpart B—Records Retention and Access (OAR Article II)
1136.200
Purpose of OAR Article II.
1136.205
Records retention period.
1136.210
Extensions of retention period due to litigation, claim, or audit.
1136.215
Records for program income earned after the end of the performance period.
1136.220
Records for joint or long-term use.
1136.225
Methods for collecting, transmitting, and storing information.
1136.230
Access to records.

# Subpart C—Remedies and Termination (OAR Article III)
1136.300
Purpose of OAR Article III.
1136.305
Content of OAR Article III.

# Subpart D—Claims, Disputes, and Appeals (OAR Article IV)
1136.400
Purpose of OAR Article IV.
1136.405
Content of OAR Article IV.

# Subpart E—Collection of Amounts Due (OAR Article V)
1136.500
Purpose of OAR Article V.
1136.505
Content of OAR Article V.

# Subpart F—Closeout (OAR Article VI)
1136.600
Purpose of OAR Article VI.
1136.605
Content of OAR Article VI.

# Subpart G—Post-Closeout Adjustments and Continuing Responsibilities (OAR Article VII)
1136.700
Purpose of OAR Article VII.
1136.705
Content of OAR Article VII.
Appendix A to Part 1136—Terms and conditions for OAR Article I, “Submitting and maintaining recipient information”
Appendix B to Part 1136—Terms and conditions for OAR Article II, “Records retention and access”
Appendix C to Part 1136—Terms and conditions for OAR Article III, “Remedies and termination”
Appendix D to Part 1136—Terms and conditions for OAR Article IV, “Claims, disputes, and appeals”
Appendix E to Part 1136—Terms and conditions for OAR Article V, “Collection of amounts due”
Appendix F to Part 1136—Terms and conditions for OAR Article VI, “Closeout”
Appendix G to Part 1136—Terms and conditions for OAR Article VII, “Post-closeout adjustments and continuing responsibilities”

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 10 U.S.C. 113.

# Source:
85 FR 51171, Aug. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1136.1
Purpose of this part.
(a) This part specifies standard wording of general terms and conditions concerning submission and maintenance of recipient information; records retention and access; remedies for noncompliance and termination; claims, disputes, and appeals; collection of amounts due; closeout; and after-the-award requirements.
(b) It thereby implements OMB guidance for grants and cooperative agreements in multiple portions of 2 CFR part 200, as those portions apply to general terms and conditions. Specifically, this part implements:
(1) 2 CFR 200.113 and 200.210(b)(1)(iii);
(2) 2 CFR 200.300(b) as it refers to requirements in 2 CFR part 25; and
(3) 2 CFR 200.333 through 200.345.
§ 1136.2
Applicability of this part.
The types of awards and entities to which this part and other parts in this subchapter apply are described in the subchapter overview at 2 CFR 1126.2.
§ 1136.3
Exceptions from requirements of this part.
Exceptions are permitted from the administrative requirements in this part only as described at 2 CFR 1126.3.
§ 1136.4
Organization of this part.
(a) The content of this part is organized into subparts and associated appendices.
(1) Each subpart provides direction to DoD Components on how to construct one article of general terms and conditions for grants and cooperative agreements.
(2) For each subpart, there is a corresponding appendix with standard wording for terms and conditions of the article addressed by the subpart. Terms and conditions address rights and responsibilities of the Federal Government and recipients.
(b) A DoD Component must use the wording provided in each appendix in accordance with the direction in the corresponding subpart. That direction may permit DoD Components to vary from the standard wording in some situations.
(c) Table 1 shows which article of general terms and conditions may be found in each of appendices A through G to this part (with the associated direction to DoD Components in Subparts A through G, respectively):
Table 1 to Paragraph
(c)
In . . .
You will find terms and conditions specifying recipients' rights and responsibilities related to . . .
That would appear in an award within OAR Article . . .
Appendix A
Submitting and maintaining recipient information
I.
Appendix B
Records retention and access
II.
Appendix C
Remedies and termination
III.
Appendix D
Claims, disputes, and appeals
IV.
Appendix E
Collection of amounts due
V.
Appendix F
Closeout
VI.
Appendix G
Post-closeout adjustments and continuing responsibilities
VII.

# Subpart A—Submitting and Maintaining Recipient Information (OAR Article I)
§ 1136.100
Purpose of OAR Article I.
OAR Article I sets forth requirements for recipients to maintain current information about themselves in the data system the Federal Government specifies as the repository for standard information about its business partners, currently the System for Award Management. The article thereby implements OMB guidance in:
(a) 2 CFR 200.113 and 200.210(b)(1)(iii);
(b) 2 CFR part 25; and
(c) The portion of 2 CFR 200.300(b) that cites 2 CFR part 25 and the System for Award Management).
§ 1136.105
Content of OAR Article I.
To implement the requirement described in § 1136.100, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the standard wording appendix A to this part provides as OAR Article I. A DoD Component may reserve Section B of the article in its general terms and conditions if it is certain that there will be no award using those general terms and conditions for which the Federal share of the award's total value will exceed $500,000.

# Subpart B—Records Retention and Access (OAR Article II)
§ 1136.200
Purpose of OAR Article II.
OAR Article II addresses rights and responsibilities concerning retention of records related to awards; access to recipients' records; and collection, transmission, and storage of information. The article thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.333 through 200.337.
§ 1136.205
Records retention period.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in:
(1) The lead-in paragraph of 2 CFR 200.333 sets a standard retention period that is generally applicable to recipient records pertinent to grants and cooperative agreements.
(2) 2 CFR 200.333(c) and (f) provide different standard retention periods specifically for records that are related either to real property and equipment acquired with Federal funds or indirect cost rate proposals and cost allocation plans.
(b)
DoD implementation.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify the standard retention periods described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix B to this part provides for Section A of OAR Article II.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions may substitute alternative wording for paragraph A.3 of OAR Article II if the awards using those terms and conditions will be renewed quarterly or annually. The alternative wording for awards that will be renewed quarterly or annually would replace the words “final financial report” in paragraph A.3 with “quarterly financial report” or “annual financial report,” respectively.
§ 1136.210
Extensions of retention period due to litigation, claim, or audit.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in:
(1) 2 CFR 200.333(a) provides for an extended retention period for records involved in a litigation, claim, or audit that begins before the end of the standard 3-year retention period.
(2) 2 CFR 200.333(b) provides that a recipient also is required to extend the retention period when a Federal awarding, cognizant, or oversight agency notifies it in writing to do so.
(b)
DoD implementation.
(1) A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must provide for extended retention periods for records involved in a litigation, claim, or audit that begins before the end of the standard 3-year retention period, as described in 2 CFR 200.333(a).
(2)(i) Other than the exception described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, DoD Components may not require recipients to extend the records retention period as described in 2 CFR 200.333(b).
(ii) A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must extend the “retention period,” as that term is used in 2 CFR 200.344(a), to include the entire period during which recipients retain their records, even if that period extends beyond the standard 3-year retention period described in § 1136.205. That extension will enable disallowance of costs and recovery of funds based on an audit or other review of records a recipient elected to retain beyond the standard retention period, even if the audit or review began after the end of that retention period. Without that extension, the ability to disallow costs and recover funds would be limited by 2 CFR 200.344(a), which states that an agency must make any disallowance determination about a recipient's costs and notify the recipient within the record retention period.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix B to this part provides for Section B of OAR Article II.
§ 1136.215
Records for program income earned after the end of the performance period.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.333(e) provides the retention period for records related to program income earned under a grant or cooperative agreement after the end of the period of performance, if an agency establishes requirements governing the disposition of program income earned after that time.
(b)
DoD implementation.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions should not establish retention requirements for records related to program income earned after the end of the period of performance. Retention requirements for those records in general terms and conditions would be inconsistent with the statement in 2 CFR 1128.725 that a DoD Component should rarely, if ever, establish a requirement for a recipient to be accountable for program income earned after the end of the period of performance. Section 1128.725 provides for use of general terms and conditions wording in FMS Article VII that establishes no such requirement. Section 1128.725 further states that exceptions for individual awards are properly addressed at the time of award in the award-specific terms and conditions.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix B to this part provides for Section C of OAR Article II. If a DoD Component includes a requirement in the award-specific terms and conditions for the recipient to be accountable for program income earned after the end of the period of performance, it also may include a requirement in the award-specific terms and conditions for the recipient's retention of the associated records.
§ 1136.220
Records for joint or long-term use.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in:
(1) 2 CFR 200.334 states that a Federal awarding agency must request that a recipient transfer records to its custody if the agency determines that the records have value that warrants long-term retention. It also provides that the agency may instead arrange for the recipient to retain records that are continuously needed for joint use.
(2) 2 CFR 200.333(d) exempts records transferred to a Federal agency from the standard records retention requirement.
(b)
DoD implementation.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must inform recipients that they may be asked to transfer records, maintain them for joint use, or retain them for a longer period.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix B to this part provides for Section D of OAR Article II.
§ 1136.225
Methods for collecting, transmitting, and storing information.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.335 addresses the use of electronic and paper formats in the collection, transmission, and storage of information related to awards.
(b)
DoD implementation.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must include provisions consistent with the guidance in 2 CFR 200.335 for recipients' use of electronic and paper formats to collect, transmit, and store information.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix B to this part provides for Section E of OAR Article II.
§ 1136.230
Access to records.
(a)
OMB guidance.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.336 and 200.337 addresses Federal Government and public access to recipient records related to grants and cooperative agreements.
(b)
DoD implementation.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must provide for Federal Government access to records consistent with 2 CFR 200.336 and address public access to records to implement the guidance in 2 CFR 200.337.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix B to this part provides for Section F of OAR Article II.

# Subpart C—Remedies and Termination (OAR Article III)
§ 1136.300
Purpose of OAR Article III.
OAR Article III addresses remedies for noncompliance, including suspension and termination of awards. It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.338 through 200.340 and 200.342.
§ 1136.305
Content of OAR Article III.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify remedies available for addressing noncompliance with award terms and conditions, policies and procedures related to termination of awards, and effects of suspension and termination on allowability of costs.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix C to this part provides for OAR Article III.

# Subpart D—Claims, Disputes, and Appeals (OAR Article IV)
§ 1136.400
Purpose of OAR Article IV.
OAR Article IV addresses claims, disputes, and appeals under awards. It thereby provides the award terms and conditions required by the DoDGARs at 32 CFR 22.815 and also implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.341.
§ 1136.405
Content of OAR Article IV.
(a)
Requirement.
The DoDGARs at 32 CFR 22.815 require DoD Components' general terms and conditions to incorporate the procedures set forth in that section for processing claims and disputes and deciding appeals of grants officer's decisions.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
To implement the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix D to this part provides for OAR Article IV, with wording inserted in lieu of the reserved paragraph A.2 to identify the Component's cognizant Grant Appeal Authority and provide his or her mailing or email address.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component may add one or more sections to the wording appendix D to this part provides for OAR Article IV to state a requirement that recipients must provide opportunities to subrecipients for hearings, appeals, or other administrative proceedings with respect to claims, disputes, remedies for noncompliance, or other matters if:
(i) That requirement is in a statute or regulation adopted in the Code of Federal Regulations after opportunity for public comment; and
(ii) The statutory or regulatory requirement applies to awards using the
DoD Component's general terms and conditions.

# Subpart E—Collection of Amounts Due (OAR Article V)
§ 1136.500
Purpose of OAR Article V.
OAR Article V addresses procedures for establishing, appealing, and collecting debts under DoD awards. It thereby:
(a) Provides requirements for recipients paralleling those for DoD Components in the DoDGARs at 32 CFR 22.820;
(b) Augments requirements of OAR Article IV in any case in which a claim leads to a determination that a recipient owes an amount to DoD; and
(c) Implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.345.
§ 1136.505
Content of OAR Article V.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify how grants officers' decisions establish debts under awards, when debts become delinquent, how and when recipients may appeal, and how debts not paid in a timely manner are referred for debt collection.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix E to this part provides for OAR Article V.

# Subpart F—Closeout (OAR Article VI)
§ 1136.600
Purpose of OAR Article VI.
OAR Article VI addresses recipients' responsibilities for closeout of awards and subawards under them. The article thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.343.
§ 1136.605
Content of OAR Article VI.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify requirements related to closeout of awards and subawards, including recipients' liquidations of obligations, refunds of unobligated balances, and submission of final reports.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
To implement the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix F to this part provides for OAR Article VI.
(2)
Exception related to due dates for final reports other than performance, financial, and invention reports.
Consistent with OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.343(a), a DoD Component may grant extensions to due dates for final reports.
(i) To pre-approve a 30-day extension for final reports other than performance, financial, and invention reports, a DoD Component may substitute “120 calendar days” for “90 calendar days” in the wording appendix F to this part provides for paragraph C.4 of OAR Article VI. These pre-approved 30-day extensions in the general terms and conditions are for all awards using those terms and conditions; they therefore are separate and distinct from any additional extensions a recipient may later request for an individual award.
(ii) The parallel authorities for pre-approved extensions of due dates for final performance and invention reports are elsewhere. DoDGARs provisions in:
(A) 2 CFR 1134.125 authorize a DoD Component to pre-approve a 30-day extension for due dates of performance reports by an appropriate substitution of wording in REP Article I of the general terms and conditions.
(B) 2 CFR 1130.610 authorize a DoD Component to pre-approve a 30-day extension for due dates of final reports listing subject inventions under awards by an appropriate substitution of wording in PROP Article VI of the general terms and conditions.
(C) 2 CFR 1134.505 authorize a DoD Component to pre-approve a 30-day extension for due dates of other types of final reports by inclusion of appropriate wording in REP Article V of the general terms and conditions.

# Subpart G—Post-Closeout Adjustments and Continuing Responsibilities (OAR Article VII)
§ 1136.700
Purpose of OAR Article VII.
OAR Article VII addresses post-closeout funding adjustments and recipients' continuing responsibilities after
award closeout. It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.344.
§ 1136.705
Content of OAR Article VII.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify the rights and responsibilities of the Federal Government and recipients with respect to funding adjustments and recipients' continuing responsibilities after award closeout.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix G to this part provides for OAR Article VII.
Pt. 1136, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1136—Terms and Conditions for OAR Article I, “Submitting and Maintaining Recipient Information”
Unless a DoD Component reserves Section B, as specified in § 1136.105, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for OAR Article I.

# OAR Article I. Submitting and Maintaining Recipient Information. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. System for Award Management.
1. Unless you are exempted from this requirement in accordance with OMB guidance in 2 CFR 25.110, you must maintain the currency of information about yourself in the system the Federal Government specifies as the repository for information about its business partners (currently the System for Award Management (SAM)).
2. You must maintain the information in that system until you submit the final financial report required under this award or receive the final payment, whichever is later.
3. You must review and update the information at least annually after your initial registration in the system (unless you are subject to the requirements in Section B) and more frequently if required by changes in your information.
Section B. Reporting of Performance and Integrity Information.
1.
General reporting requirement.
If the total value of your currently active grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts from all Federal agencies exceeds $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of this award, then during that period of time you must maintain in SAM the currency of information required by paragraph B.2 of this section. Note that:
a. This reporting is required under section 872 of Public Law 110-417, as amended (41 U.S.C. 2313).
b. As required by section 3010 of Public Law 111-212, all performance and integrity information posted in the designated information system on or after April 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for Federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available.
c. Recipient information is submitted to the OMB-designated integrity and performance system through the SAM, as described in paragraph B.3 of this section. The currently designated integrity and performance information system is the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS).
2.
Proceedings about which you must report.
Submit the information that the designated information system requires about each proceeding that:
a. Is in connection with the award or performance of a grant, cooperative agreement, or procurement contract from the Federal Government;
b. Reached its final disposition during the most recent 5-year period; and
c. Is one of the following:
i. A criminal proceeding that resulted in a conviction, as defined in paragraph B.5. of this section;
ii. A civil proceeding that resulted in a finding of fault and liability and payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more;
iii. An administrative proceeding, as defined in paragraph B.5. of this section, that resulted in a finding of fault and liability and your payment of either monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more or a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000; or
iv. Any other criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding if:
(A) It could have led to an outcome described in paragraph B.2.c.i, ii, or iii of this section;
(B) It had a different disposition arrived at by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault on your part; and
(C) The requirement in this section to disclose information about the proceeding does not conflict with applicable laws and regulations.
3.
Reporting procedures.
Submit the information required in paragraph B.2 of this section to the Entity Management functional area of the SAM.
a. Current procedures are to submit the information as part of the maintenance of your information in the SAM that Section A of this article requires.
b. You do not need to submit the information again under this award if you already reported current information to the SAM
under another Federal grant, cooperative agreement, or procurement contract.
4.
Reporting frequency.
During any period of time when you are subject to the requirement in paragraph B.1 of this section, you must report to SAM at least semiannually following your initial report of any information required in paragraph B.2 of this section, either to provide new information not reported previously or affirm that there is no new information to report.
5.
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
a.
Administrative proceeding
means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability (
e.g.,
Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals proceedings). This includes proceedings at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement. It does not include audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables.
b.
Conviction
means a judgment or conviction of a criminal offense by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or a plea, and includes a conviction entered upon a plea of nolo contendere.
c.
Total value of currently active grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement contracts
includes:
i. Only the Federal share of the funding under any Federal agency award with a recipient cost share or match; and
ii. The value of all expected funding increments and options, even if not yet exercised, under each Federal agency award.
Section C. Disclosure of evidence of integrity-related issues.
1.
Disclosure requirement.
At any time during the period of performance of this award, if you have evidence that a covered person committed a covered action (see paragraphs C.2 and C.3 of this section) that may affect this award, you must disclose the evidence in writing to the Office of the Inspector General, DoD, with a copy to the grants officer identified in the award cover pages.
2.
Covered person.
As the term is used in this section, “covered person” means a principal, employee, or agent of either you or a subrecipient under this award, where:
a. “Principal” means:
i. An officer, director, owner, partner, principal investigator, or other person with management or supervisory responsibilities that relate to this award; or
ii. A consultant or other person, whether or not employed by you or a subrecipient or paid with funds under this award, who:
(A) Is in a position to handle funds under this award;
(B) Is in a position to influence or control the use of those funds; or
(C) Occupies a technical or professional position capable of substantially influencing the development or outcome of an activity required to perform the project or program under this award.
b. “Agent” means any individual who acts on behalf of, or who is authorized to commit you or the subrecipient, whether or not employed by you or the subrecipient.
3.
Covered action.
As the term is used in this section, “covered action” means a violation of Federal criminal law in Title 18 of the United States Code involving fraud, bribery, or a gratuity violation.
4.
Safeguarding of the information.
a. To the extent permitted by law and regulation, we will:
i. Safeguard and treat information you disclose to us as confidential if you mark the information as “confidential” or “proprietary.”
ii. Not release the information to the public in response to a Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) request without notifying you in advance.
b. We may transfer documents you provide to us to any other department or agency within the Executive Branch of the Federal Government if the information relates to matters within that organization's jurisdiction.
Pt. 1136, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1136—Terms and Conditions for OAR Article II, “Records Retention and Access”
Unless a DoD Component substitutes alternate wording in paragraph A.3, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for OAR Article II, as specified in §§ 1136.205 through 1136.230.

# OAR Article II. Records Retention and Access. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Records retention period.
Except as provided in Sections B through D of this article:
1. You must keep records related to any real property and equipment acquired, in whole or in part, using Federal funds under the award for 3 years after final disposition of the property. For any item of exempt property with a current fair market value greater than $5,000, and for which final disposition was not a condition of the title vesting, you must keep whatever records you need for as long as necessary to ensure that you can deduct the Federal share if you later use the property in contributions for cost sharing or matching purposes under any Federal award.
2. You must keep records related to rate proposals for indirect or facilities and administrative costs, cost allocation plans, and supporting records such as indirect cost rate computations and any similar accounting
computations of the rate at which a particular group of costs is chargeable (such as computer usage chargeback or composite fringe benefit rates) as follows:
a. If you are required to submit a proposal, plan, or other computations to your Federal cognizant agency for indirect costs, as the basis for negotiation of a rate, you must keep the submissions and all supporting records for 3 years from the date on which you were required to make the submissions.
b. If you are not required to submit a proposal, plan, or other computation as the basis for negotiation, you must keep the proposal, plan, other computation, and supporting records for 3 years from the end of the fiscal year or other accounting period covered by the proposal, plan, or other computation.
3. You must keep other financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and other records pertinent to this award for a period of 3 years from the date you submit your final financial report under the award.
Section B. Extensions of retention period due to litigation, claim, or audit.
1. If any litigation, claim, or audit begins before the end of the 3-year retention period specified in Section A of this article and the final action related to the litigation, claim, or audit is not taken before the end of that 3-year period, you must retain all records related to this award that may be involved in the litigation, claim, or audit until all findings involving the records have been resolved and final action taken.
2. We may disallow costs and recover funds under this award based on an audit or other review of records you elected to retain beyond the retention period required by this article, even if the audit or review begins after the end of the 3-year retention period specified in Section A of this article. Thus, the “retention period,” as that term is used in OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.344(a)(1), is extended, as described in 2 CFR 200.333(b), to include the entire period during which we and our authorized representatives continue to have access to those records under paragraph F.2 of this article.
Section C. Records for program income earned after the end of the performance period.
In accordance with Section F of FMS Article VII, there are no requirements under this award applicable to program income you earn after the end of the period of performance and therefore no associated records retention requirements.
Section D. Records for joint or long-term use.
1.
Joint use.
To avoid duplicate recordkeeping for records that you and we both need to use on a continuous basis, we may ask you to make special arrangements with us, by mutual agreement, to make records available for joint and continuous use.
2.
Long-term use.
If we determine that some records will be needed longer than the 3-year period specified in Section A of this article, we may request that you either:
a. Retain the records for a longer period of time; or
b. Transfer the records to our custody for long-term retention.
3.
Retention requirements for transferred records.
For any records transferred to our custody, you are not subject to the records retention requirements in Section A of this article.
Section E. Methods for collecting, transmitting, and storing information
.
1. You should, whenever practicable, collect, transmit, and store information related to this award in open and machine-readable formats rather than in closed formats or on paper. However, if you request it, we will:
a. Provide award related-information to you on paper; and
b. Accept award related-information from you on paper. In that case, we will not require more than an original and two copies.
2. When your original records are in an electronic form that cannot be altered, you do not need to create and retain paper copies of those records.
3. When your original records are on paper, you may substitute electronic versions produced through duplication or using other forms of electronic media, provided that:
a. You conduct periodic quality control reviews of the records;
b. You provide reasonable safeguards against alteration of the records; and
c. The records remain readable.
Section F. Access to records.
1.
Scope of Federal Government access rights.
a. We as the awarding agency, the Federal Government Inspectors General, the Comptroller General of the United States, and any of our authorized representatives have the right of access to any documents, papers, or other records you have that are pertinent to this award, in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts.
b. This right also includes timely and reasonable access to your personnel for the purposes of interview and discussion related to the records.
c. As described in OMB guidance at 2 CFR 200.336(b), the access to records described in this section will include access to the true name of a victim of a crime only under extraordinary and rare circumstances.
i. You are required to provide that access only in response to a court order or subpoena pursuant to a bona fide confidential investigation, or in response to a request duly authorized by the head of the DoD Component or his or her designee; and
ii. You must take appropriate steps to protect this sensitive information.
2.
Duration of Federal Government access rights.
We have the access rights described in paragraph F.1 of this section as long as you retain the records.
3.
Public access.
a. You must comply with requirements to protect information that Federal statute, Executive order, or regulation requires to be protected (
e.g.,
personally identifiable or export controlled information), to include both information generated under this award and information provided to you and identified as being subject to protection. Other than those limitations on dissemination of information, we place no restrictions on you that limit public access to your records pertinent to this award.
b. We do not place any requirements on you to permit public access to your records separate from any Federal, State, local, or tribal statute that may require you to do so.
c. The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552) does not apply to records in your possession but records you provide to us generally will be subject to FOIA, with the applicable exemptions.
Pt. 1136, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 1136—Terms and Conditions for OAR Article III, “Remedies and Termination”
As required by § 1136.305, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for OAR Article III.

# OAR Article III. Remedies and Termination. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Non-compliance with award terms and conditions
. If you fail to comply with a term or condition of this award or an applicable Federal statute or regulation, we may amend this award to impose award-specific conditions, as described in OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.207. If imposing award-specific conditions, we will notify you before modifying the award and, once you have corrected the non-compliance, promptly remove the award-specific conditions. If we determine that the imposition of award-specific conditions is insufficient to correct the non-compliance or the non-compliance remains uncorrected despite the use of award-specific conditions, we may consider taking one or more of the remedies specified in Section B of this article.
Section B. Remedies for noncompliance.
1. If you fail to comply with a term or condition of this award or an applicable Federal statute or regulation, we may take one or more of the following actions that we deem appropriate to the circumstances:
a. Temporarily withhold cash payments pending:
i. Your correction of the deficiency; or
ii. Our taking more severe enforcement action.
b. Disallow (that is, deny both use of funds and any applicable cost-sharing or matching credit for) all or part of the cost of the activity or action not in compliance;
c. Suspend or, in accordance with paragraph C.1.a.i of this article, terminate this award, in whole or in part (suspension of an award is a separate and distinct action from suspension of a person under 2 CFR parts 180 and 1125, as noted in paragraph B.3 of this article);
d. Withhold further awards to you for the project or program that is not in compliance;
e. Take any other action legally available to us under the circumstances.
2. You may raise an objection to our taking any remedy we take under paragraph B.1 of this section and will be given an opportunity to provide information and documentation challenging the action. The procedures are those specified in OAR Article IV for claims and disputes.
3. Our use of any remedy under paragraph B.1 of this section, including suspension or termination of the award, does not preclude our referring the noncompliance to a suspension and debarment official and asking that official to consider initiating a suspension or debarment action under 2 CFR part 1125, the DoD implementation of OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 180.
Section C. Termination.
1. This award may be terminated in whole or in part as follows:
a.
Unilaterally by the Federal Government.
We will provide a notice of termination if we unilaterally terminate this award in whole or in part, which we may do for either of the following reasons:
i. Your material failure to comply with the award terms and conditions. If we terminate the award for that reason, we will report the termination to the OMB-designated integrity and performance system (currently FAPIIS). In accordance with 41 U.S.C. 2313, each Federal awarding official must review and consider the information in the OMB-designated integrity and performance system with regard to any proposal or offer before awarding a grant or contract.
ii. The program office does not have funding for an upcoming increment if this award is incrementally funded. In that case, the Federal Government's financial obligation does not exceed the amount currently obligated under the award.
b.
By mutual agreement.
With your consent, we may terminate this award, in whole or in part, for any reason. In that case, you and we must agree to:
i. The termination conditions, including the effective date; and
ii. In the case of a partial termination, the portion to be terminated.
c.
Unilaterally by the recipient.
You may unilaterally terminate this award, in whole or in part, by sending us written notification that states:
i. The reasons for the termination;
ii. The effective date; and
iii. In the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. In that case, however, we may terminate the award in its entirety if we determine that the remaining portion of the award will not accomplish the purposes for which we made the award.
2. If this award is terminated in its entirety before the end of the performance period, you must complete the closeout actions for which you are responsible under OAR Article VI. The due date for each action is to be measured relative to the date of termination.
3. If this award is only partially terminated before the end of the performance period, with a reduced or modified portion of the award continuing through the end of the performance period, then closeout actions will occur at the end of the performance period as specified in OAR Article VI.
4. You will continue to have all of the post-closeout responsibilities that OAR Article VII specifies for you if this award is wholly or partially terminated before the end of the performance period.
Section D. Effects of suspension or termination of the award on allowability of costs.
If we suspend or terminate this award prior to the end of the period of performance, costs resulting from obligations that you incurred:
1. Before the effective date of the suspension or termination are allowable if:
a. You properly incurred those obligations;
b. You did not incur the obligations in anticipation of the suspension or termination;
c. In the case of termination, the costs resulted from obligations that were noncancellable after the termination; and
d. The costs would have been allowable if we had not suspended or terminated the award and it had expired normally at the end of the period of performance.
2. During the suspension or after the termination are not allowable unless we expressly authorize them, either in the notice of suspension or termination or subsequently.
Pt. 1136, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 1136—Terms and Conditions for OAR Article IV, “Claims, Disputes, and Appeals”
As specified in § 1136.405, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for OAR Article IV, with the required insertion in paragraph A.2 of the article, along with any additional wording permitted by that section.

# OAR Article IV. Claims, Disputes, and Appeals. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Definitions.
1.
Claim.
The definition of the term “claim,” as it is used in this article, is in the definitions section of the preamble to these general terms and conditions.
2.
Grant Appeal Authority.
[Reserved]
Section B. Submission of claims.
1.
Your claims.
To submit a claim arising out of this award, you must submit it in writing to the grants officer for decision, specify the nature and basis for the relief you are requesting, and include all data that supports your claim.
2.
Federal Government claims.
You will receive a written grants officer's decision if a DoD claim arises out of this award.
Section C. Alternative dispute resolution.
1. We encourage resolution of all issues related to this award by mutual agreement between you and the grants officer.
2. If you and the grants officer are unable to resolve an issue through unassisted negotiations, we encourage use of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) procedures to try to do so. ADR procedures are any voluntary means, such as mini-trials or mediation, used to resolve issues in controversy. ADR procedures may be used prior to submission of a claim or at any other time prior to the Grant Appeal Authority's decision on any appeal you submit.
Section D. Grants officer decisions for claims you submit.
1. Within 60 calendar days of receiving your claim, the grants officer will either:
a. Transmit a written decision that:
i. Identifies data on which the decision is based; and
ii. Identifies and provides the mailing address for the Grant Appeal Authority to whom you would submit an appeal of the decision if you elect to do so; or
b. If more time is required to render a written decision, notify you of a specific date when he or she will render the decision and inform you of the reason for delaying it.
2. The grants officer's decision will be final unless you decide to appeal, in which case we encourage use of ADR procedures as noted in Section C of this article.
Section E. Formal administrative appeals.
1.
Right to appeal.
You have the right to appeal a grants officer's decision to the Grant Appeal Authority identified in Section A of this article.
2.
Notice of appeal.
You may appeal a grants officer's decision within 90 calendar days of receiving the decision by submitting a written notice of appeal to the Grant Appeal Authority and grants officer. If you elect to use ADR procedures, you are allowed an additional 60 calendar days to submit the written notice of appeal.
3.
Appeal file.
Within 30 calendar days of the grants officer's receipt of your notice of appeal, you should receive the appeal file with copies of all documents relevant to the appeal. You may supplement the file with other documents you deem relevant and with a memorandum in support of your position for the Grant Appeal Authority's consideration. The Grant Appeal Authority may request additional information from you.
4.
Decision.
Unless the Grant Appeal Authority decides to conduct fact-finding procedures or an oral hearing on the appeal, the appeal will be decided solely on the basis of the written record. Any fact-finding or hearing will be conducted using procedures that the Grant Appeal Authority deems appropriate.
Section F. Representation.
You may be represented by counsel or any other designated representative in any claim, appeal, or ADR proceeding, as long as the representative is not otherwise prohibited by law or regulation from appearing before the DoD Component concerned.
Section G. Effect of Grant Appeal Authority's decision.
The Grant Appeal Authority's decision is the final administrative decision of DoD and cannot be further appealed within DoD.
Section H. Non-exclusivity of remedies.
Nothing in this article is intended to limit your right to any remedy under the law.
Pt. 1136, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 1136—Terms and Conditions for OAR Article V, “Collection of Amounts Due”
As required by § 1136.505, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for OAR Article V.

# OAR Article V. Collection of Amounts Due. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Establishing a debt.
1. Any amount paid to you in excess of the amount to which you are determined to be entitled under the terms and conditions of this award constitutes a debt to the Federal Government.
2. A grants officer will attempt to resolve any claim of your indebtedness arising out of this award by mutual agreement.
3. If the grants officer fails to resolve the claim in that manner, you will receive a written notice of the grants officer's decision formally determining the debt, as described in paragraph B.2 of OAR Article IV. The notice will describe the debt, including the amount, name and address of the official who determined the debt, and a copy of that official's determination.
Section B. Debt delinquency and appeals.
1. Within 30 calendar days of the grants officer's decision, you must either pay the amount owed to the address provided in the written notice or inform the grants officer that you intend to appeal the decision. Appeal procedures are described in OAR Article IV.
2. If you elect not to appeal, any amounts not paid within 30 calendar days of the grants officer's decision will be a delinquent debt.
3. If you elect to appeal the grants officer's decision, you will have 90 calendar days after receipt of the grants officer's decision to file your appeal unless Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) procedures are used, as described in section C of OAR Article IV, in which case you will have 150 calendar days.
Section C. Demand letter, interest, and debt collection.
1. If within 30 calendar days of the grants officer's decision, you neither pay the amount due nor provide notice of your intent to appeal the grants officer's decision, the grants officer will send you a demand letter identifying a payment office that will be responsible for any further debt collection activity.
2. If you do not pay by the due date specified in the written demand letter, the Federal Government may collect part or all of the debt by:
a. Making an administrative offset against your requests for reimbursements under Federal awards;
b. Withholding advance payments otherwise due to you; and
c. Any other action permitted by Federal statute.
3. The debt will bear interest, and may include penalties and other administrative costs, in accordance with applicable provisions of the DoD Financial Management Regulation (DoD 7000.14-R), which implements the Federal Claims Collection Standards. The date from which interest is computed is not extended by litigation or the filing of any form of appeal.
Pt. 1136, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 1136—Terms and Conditions for OAR Article VI, “Closeout”
As required by § 1136.605, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for OAR Article VI but may make a substitution in paragraph C.4 of the article as provided in that section.

# OAR Article VI. Closeout. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Liquidation of obligations.
Unless the award administration office authorizes an extension of the due date, you must liquidate all obligations that you incurred under this award not later than 120 calendar days after the end date of the period of performance.
Section B. Refunds of unobligated balances.
You must promptly refund to the award administration office any balances of unobligated cash that we have advanced or paid to you and not authorized you to use on other projects or programs.
Section C. Final reports.
You must submit the:
1. Final performance report under this award no later than the date specified in Section C of REP Article I, subject to any extensions granted under Section D of that article;
2. Final financial report under this award no later than the date specified in Section C of REP Article II, subject to any extensions granted under Section D of that article;
3. Final report listing subject inventions made under the award no later than the date specified in Section B of PROP Article VI; and
4. Other final reports that are required under this award no later than 90 calendar days after the end date of the period of performance, unless you request an extension of the due date and the award administration office approves the request.
Section D. Accounting for property.
You must account for any real property, equipment, supplies, and intangible property that you and any subrecipients acquired or improved under the award, in accordance with PROP Articles I through IV and VI. Your requests for disposition instructions for any federally owned property, as required by PROP Article V, meet the need described in OMB guidance at 2 CFR 200.343(f) to account for that property at closeout.
Pt. 1136, App. G

# Appendix G to Part 1136—Terms and Conditions for OAR Article VII, “Post-Closeout Adjustments and Continuing Responsibilities”
As required by § 1136.705, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for OAR Article VII.

# OAR Article VII. Post-Closeout Adjustments and Continuing responsibilities. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Adjustments.
The closeout of this award does not affect:
1. Our right to disallow costs and recover funds on the basis of a later audit or other review, as long as we make the determination that the costs are disallowed and notify you about that determination within the extended records retention period specified in paragraph B.2 of OAR Article II of these terms and conditions.
2. Your obligation to return any funds due to the Federal Government as a result of later refunds, corrections, or other transactions (to include any adjustments in final indirect cost rates).
Section B. Continuing responsibilities.
After closeout of this award, you must continue to comply with terms and conditions of this award that have applicability beyond closeout, including requirements concerning:
1. Audits, as specified in FMS Article V that cover periods of time during which you expended funds under this award.
2. Management, use, and disposition of any real property or equipment acquired or improved under this award in which we continue to have a Federal interest after closeout, as specified in PROP Articles I through IV.
3. Retention of, and access to, records related to this award, as specified in OAR Article II.
Pt. 1138

# PART 1138—REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO SUBAWARDS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Sec.
1138.1
Purpose of this part.
1138.2
Applicability of this part.
1138.3
Exceptions from requirements of this part.
1138.4
Organization of this part.
1138.5
Authority to omit or reserve portions of SUB Articles I through XII.

# Subpart A-Distinguishing Subawards and Procurements (SUB Article I)
1138.100
Purpose of SUB Article I.
1138.105
Content of SUB Article I.

# Subpart B-Pre-Award and Time of Award Responsibilities (SUB Article II)
1138.200
Purpose of SUB Article II.
1138.205
Content of SUB Article II.

# Subpart C-Informational Content of Subawards (SUB Article III)
1138.300
Purpose of SUB Article III.
1138.305
Content of SUB Article III.

# Subpart D-Financial and Program Management Requirements for Subawards (SUB Article IV)
1138.400
Purpose of SUB Article IV.
1138.405
Content of SUB Article IV.

# Subpart E-Property Requirements for Subawards (SUB Article V)
1138.500
Purposes of SUB Article V in relation to other articles.
1138.505
Title to property under subawards.
1138.510
Property management system requirements for subawards.
1138.515
Use and disposition of real property, equipment, supplies, and federally owned property under subawards.
1138.520
Intangible property under subawards.

# Subpart F-Procurement Procedures to Include in Subawards (SUB Article VI)
1138.600
Purpose of SUB Article VI.
1138.605
Content of SUB Article VI.

# Subpart G-Financial, Programmatic, and Property Reporting Requirements for Subawards (SUB Article VII)
1138.700
Purposes of SUB Article VII in relation to other articles.
1138.705
Performance reporting requirements for subawards.
1138.710
Financial reporting requirements for subawards.
1138.715
Reporting on property under subawards.
1138.720
Other reporting under subawards.

# Subpart H-Other Administrative Requirements for Subawards (SUB Article VIII)
1138.800
Purpose of SUB Article VIII.
1138.805
Content of SUB Article VIII.

# Subpart I-National Policy Requirements for Subawards (SUB Article IX)
1138.900
Purpose of SUB Article IX.
1138.905
Content of SUB Article IX.

# Subpart J-Subrecipient Monitoring and Other Post-Award Administration (SUB Article X)
1138.1000
Purpose of SUB Article X.
1138.1005
Content of SUB Article X.

# Subpart K-Requirements Concerning Subrecipients' Lower-Tier Subawards (SUB Article XI)
1138.1100
Purpose of SUB Article XI.
1138.1105
Content of SUB Article XI.

# Subpart L-Fixed-Amount Subawards (SUB Article XII)
1138.1200
Purpose of SUB Article XII.
1138.1205
Content of SUB Article XII.
Appendix A to Part 1138—Terms and conditions for SUB Article I, “Distinguishing subawards and procurements”
Appendix B to Part 1138—Terms and conditions for SUB Article II, “Pre-award and time of award responsibilities”
Appendix C to Part 1138—Terms and conditions for SUB Article III, “Informational content of subawards”
Appendix D to Part 1138—Terms and conditions for SUB Article IV, “Financial and program management requirements for subawards”
Appendix E to Part 1138—Terms and conditions for SUB Article V, “Property requirements for subawards”
Appendix F to Part 1138—Terms and conditions for SUB Article VI, “Procurement procedures to include in subawards”
Appendix G to Part 1138—Terms and conditions for SUB Article VII, “Financial, programmatic, and property reporting requirements for subawards”
Appendix H to Part 1138—Terms and conditions for SUB Article VIII, “Other administrative requirements for subawards”
Appendix I to Part 1138—Terms and conditions for SUB Article IX, “National policy requirements for subawards”
Appendix J to Part 1138—Terms and conditions for SUB Article X, “Subrecipient monitoring and other post-award administration”
Appendix K to Part 1138—Terms and conditions for SUB Article XI, “Requirements concerning subrecipients' lower-tier subawards”
Appendix L to Part 1138—Terms and conditions for SUB Article XII, “Fixed-amount subawards”

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 10 U.S.C. 113.

# Source:
85 FR 51171, Aug. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1138.1
Purpose of this part.
(a) This part specifies standard wording of general terms and conditions concerning recipients' award and administration of subawards under DoD grants and cooperative agreements.
(b) It thereby implements OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200 and 2 CFR parts 25, 170, and 180, as they apply to subawards.
§ 1138.2
Applicability of this part.
The types of awards and entities to which this part and other parts in this subchapter apply are described in the subchapter overview at 2 CFR 1126.2.
§ 1138.3
Exceptions from requirements of this part.
Exceptions are permitted from the administrative requirements in this part only as described at 2 CFR 1126.3.
§ 1138.4
Organization of this part.
(a) The content of this part is organized into subparts and associated appendices.
(1) Each subpart provides direction to DoD Components on how to construct one article of general terms and conditions for grants and cooperative agreements.
(2) For each subpart, there is a corresponding appendix with standard wording for terms and conditions of the
article addressed by the subpart. Terms and conditions address rights and responsibilities of the Federal Government and recipients.
(b) A DoD Component must use the wording provided in each appendix in accordance with the direction in the corresponding subpart and the authorization in § 1138.5, which permit a DoD Component to vary from the standard wording in some situations.
(c) Table 1 shows which article of general terms and conditions may be found in each of appendices A through L to this part (with the associated direction to DoD Components in Subparts A through L, respectively, as supplemented by the authorization in § 1138.5):
Table 1 to Paragraph (
c
)
In . . .
You will find terms and conditions specifying recipients' rights and responsibilities related to . . .
That would appear in an award within SUB Article . . .
Appendix A
Distinguishing subawards and procurements
I.
Appendix B
Pre-award and time of award responsibilities
II.
Appendix C
Informational content of subawards
III.
Appendix D
Financial and program management requirements for subawards
IV.
Appendix E
Property requirements for subawards
V.
Appendix F
Procurement procedures to include in subawards
VI.
Appendix G
Financial, programmatic, and property reporting requirements for subawards
VII.
Appendix H
Other administrative requirements for subawards
VIII.
Appendix I
National policy requirements for subawards
IX.
Appendix J
Subrecipient monitoring and other post-award administration
X.
Appendix K
Requirements concerning subrecipients' lower-tier subawards
XI.
Appendix L
Fixed-amount subawards
XII.
§ 1138.5
Authority to omit or reserve portions of SUB Articles I through XII.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions may:
(a) Omit SUB Articles II through XII that are the subject of this part if the DoD Component does not allow recipients to make subawards under awards using those terms and conditions. The DoD Component also may amend SUB Article I in that case, to state the prohibition on making subawards and limit the recipient's responsibility to ensuring that any transaction it awards at the next tier is a procurement transaction.
(b) Reserve portions of SUB Articles I through XII that do not apply to the DoD Component's awards using those terms and conditions. For example, the DoD Component may reserve paragraphs in SUB Articles IV through IX specifying administrative requirements that flow down solely to subawards to States if it determines that there is no possibility of a subaward to a State under any of the awards using its general terms and conditions. Similarly, it may reserve SUB Article XII if it does not permit any fixed-amount subawards under its awards.

# Subpart A-Distinguishing Subawards and Procurements (SUB Article I)
§ 1138.100
Purpose of SUB Article I.
SUB Article I specifies requirements for a recipient to determine whether each transaction it makes at the next tier below a DoD grant or cooperative agreement is a subaward or a procurement transaction. It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.201(a) and 200.330.
§ 1138.105
Content of SUB Article I.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must:
(1) Require the recipient to determine the nature of transactions it makes under its award; and
(2) Inform the recipient about the effect of that determination on the procedures for awarding the transaction and the transaction's terms and conditions.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix A to this part provides for SUB Article I.

# Subpart B-Pre-Award and Time of Award Responsibilities (SUB Article II)
§ 1138.200
Purpose of SUB Article II.
SUB Article II specifies requirements concerning subrecipients' unique entity identifiers and pre-award risk assessments. It also references requirements in REP Article IV to report on subawards and subrecipients' executive compensation. It thereby partially implements OMB guidance in:
(a) 2 CFR parts 25 and 170;
(b) 2 CFR 200.207; 200.300(b), as it applies to subaward reporting; and 200.331(b); and
(c) Subpart C of 2 CFR part 180, as implemented by DoD at 2 CFR part 1125.
§ 1138.205
Content of SUB Article II.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must require the recipient to:
(1) Obtain an entity's unique entity identifier before making a subaward to the entity;
(2) Notify potential subrecipients in advance about that requirement; and
(3) Conduct a pre-award risk assessment of an entity before making a subaward to the entity and adjust subaward terms and conditions if warranted by the results of the assessment.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix B to this part provides for SUB Article II.

# Subpart C-Informational Content of Subawards (SUB Article III)
§ 1138.300
Purpose of SUB Article III.
SUB Article III specifies information that recipients must include in subawards they make under DoD grants and cooperative agreements. It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.331(a)(1).
§ 1138.305
Content of SUB Article III.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must require recipients to include certain information items in each subaward they make.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix C to this part provides for SUB Article III.

# Subpart D-Financial and Program Management Requirements for Subawards (SUB Article IV)
§ 1138.400
Purpose of SUB Article IV.
SUB Article IV specifies the financial and program management requirements that recipients must include in subawards they make under DoD grants and cooperative agreements. It thereby implements OMB guidance in the following portions of 2 CFR part 200, as they apply to subawards:
(a) Sections 200.209 and 200.302 through 200.309; and (b) Subparts E and F.
§ 1138.405
Content of SUB Article IV.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must require recipients to include pertinent requirements concerning financial and program management in each subaward they make.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix D to this part provides for SUB Article IV.

# Subpart E-Property Requirements for Subawards (SUB Article V)
§ 1138.500
Purposes of SUB Article V in relation to other articles.
(a)
Purposes.
SUB Article V specifies requirements concerning equipment, supplies, and real, intangible, and federally owned property that recipients must include in subawards they make under DoD grants and cooperative agreements. It thereby:
(1) Specifies which of the requirements in PROP Articles I through VI of the award flow down to subawards; and
(2) Implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.310 through 200.316, as those sections apply to subawards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix E to this part provides as Section A of SUB Article V to inform recipients about the relationship between requirements for the recipient in PROP Articles I through VI and requirements for subawards in SUB Article V.
§ 1138.505
Title to property under subawards.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify requirements related to title to property under subawards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix E to this part provides as Section B of SUB Article V to specify the requirements concerning title to property that recipients must include in their subawards.
(2)
Exception.
If a DoD Component has the necessary statutory authority to do so and includes provisions in paragraph A.2 of PROP Article I to identify any property acquired under the award as exempt property, as described in 2 CFR 1130.105, the DoD Component may at its option insert wording in paragraph B.1.b of SUB Article V to allow recipients to pass through those provisions to subrecipients.
(i) It is critical, however, that the DoD Component ensures that the wording of paragraph B.1.b is consistent with the statutory authority.
(ii) For example, if the statutory authority is 31 U.S.C. 6306—as described in 2 CFR 1130.105(b)(2)(i)—the wording of paragraph B.1.b of SUB Article V may permit a recipient to flow down the substance of the exempt property provision in paragraph A.2 of PROP Article I only to a subrecipient that is a nonprofit institution of higher education or nonprofit organization whose primary purpose is conducting scientific research.
§ 1138.510
Property management system requirements for subawards.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must address the standards for property management systems that apply to subawards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
To specify the property management system standards that recipients must include in their subawards, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix E to this part provides as Section C of SUB Article V.
§ 1138.515
Use and disposition of real property, equipment, supplies, and federally owned property under subawards.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify the requirements concerning use and disposition of real property, equipment, supplies, and federally owned property that recipients must include in subawards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix E to this part provides for Sections D through F of SUB Article V.
§ 1138.520
Intangible property under subawards.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must address the provisions concerning intangible property that recipients must include in subawards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
To specify the intangible property provisions that recipients must include in their subawards, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix E to this part provides as Section G of SUB Article V.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions may delete the reference to “Section B of PROP Article VI” in the wording appendix E to this part provides for paragraph G.2 of SUB Article V and provide alternative wording if:
(i) Those general terms and conditions will be used in awards for purposes other than research or education, as described in 2 CFR 1130.610(c)(3); and
(ii) The DoD Component wants to specify that nonprofit and governmental recipients include either:
(A) No provisions concerning inventions in subawards to for-profit entities; or
(B) Provisions in subawards to for-profit entities that differ from those the DoD Component's general terms and conditions specify for nonprofit and governmental recipients.

# Subpart F-Procurement Procedures to Include in Subawards (SUB Article VI)
§ 1138.600
Purpose of SUB Article VI.
SUB Article VI of the general terms and conditions specifies procurement provisions recipients must include in their subaward terms and conditions. It thereby:
(a) Specifies which of the requirements in PROC Articles I through III of the award flow down to subawards; and
(b) Implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.317 through 200.326 and appendix II to 2 CFR part 200, as those portions of 2 CFR part 200 apply to subawards; and
(c) Partially implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.205(d), 200.213, and 200.517, as those sections of 2 CFR part 200 apply to subawards.
§ 1138.605
Content of SUB Article VI.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify that recipients' subawards include requirements for subrecipients' procurement procedures.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
To specify the requirements for procurement procedures that a recipient must include in its subawards, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix F to this part provides for SUB Article VI.

# Subpart G—Financial, Programmatic, and Property Reporting Requirements for Subawards (SUB Article VII)
§ 1138.700
Purposes of SUB Article VII in relation to other articles.
(a)
Purposes.
SUB Article VII of the general terms and conditions specifies provisions concerning reporting that recipients must include in their subaward terms and conditions, as applicable. It thereby implements OMB guidance in the following sections of 2 CFR part 200, as they apply to subawards:
(1) 2 CFR 200.301 and 200.327 through 200.329; and
(2) 2 CFR 200.315(c), as it relates to invention reporting; and
(3) 2 CFR 200.343(a), as it relates to financial and performance reporting.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix G to this part provides as Section A of SUB Article VII to inform recipients about the relationship between requirements for the recipient in REP Articles I through III and requirements for subawards in SUB Article VII.
§ 1138.705
Performance reporting requirements for subawards.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify performance reporting requirements for subawards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix G to this part provides as Section B of SUB Article VII to specify the performance reporting requirements that recipients must include in their subawards.
§ 1138.710
Financial reporting requirements for subawards.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify financial reporting requirements for subawards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix G to this part provides for Section C of SUB Article VII to specify the financial reporting requirements that recipients must include in their subawards.
§ 1138.715
Reporting on property under subawards.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify the requirements for reporting on property that recipients must include in their subawards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the requirement described in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD
Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix G to this part provides as Section D of SUB Article VII.
§ 1138.720
Other reporting under subawards.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify any requirements for other reporting that recipients must include in their subawards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
To implement the requirement described in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must:
(1) Include in Section E of SUB Article VII any reporting requirement included in REP Article V that may flow down to subrecipients, and
(2) Indicate whether the recipient must require the subrecipient to provide any specific information or can comply by ensuring that the recipient meets its responsibilities to DoD.

# Subpart H—Other Administrative Requirements for Subawards (SUB Article VIII)
§ 1138.800
Purpose of SUB Article VIII.
SUB Article VIII of the general terms and conditions:
(a) Specifies provisions that a recipient must include in its subaward terms and conditions concerning submission and maintenance of subrecipient information; records retention and access; remedies and termination; disputes, hearings, and appeals; collection of amounts due; closeout; and post-closeout adjustments and continuing responsibilities.
(b) It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.113 and 200.333 through 200.345, as those sections apply to subawards.
§ 1138.805
Content of SUB Article VIII.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify the administrative requirements that a recipient must include in its subaward terms and conditions in areas covered by OAR Articles I through VII of the recipient's prime award.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
—(1)
General.
To implement the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix H to this part provides for SUB Article VIII.
(2)
Exception.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions may add one or more sections to the wording that appendix H to this part provides for SUB Article VIII if the DoD Component added requirements to OAR Article IV of its general terms and conditions, in accordance with paragraph 2 CFR 1136.405(b)(2), because a statute or regulation requires recipients to provide opportunities to subrecipients for hearings, appeals, or other administrative proceedings with respect to claims, disputes, remedies for noncompliance, or other matters. The additional wording in SUB Article VIII would address the flow down to subrecipients of the added requirements in OAR Article IV.

# Subpart I—National Policy Requirements for Subawards (SUB Article IX)
§ 1138.900
Purpose of SUB Article IX.
SUB Article IX addresses national policy requirements that recipients must include in their subaward terms and conditions. It thereby partially implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.331(a)(2).
§ 1138.905
Content of SUB Article IX.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify which of the national policy requirements in NP Articles I through IV of the award flow down to subawards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions:
(1) Must use the wording appendix B to this part provides for SUB Article IX if the DoD Component did not add, delete, or otherwise modify any of the wording that appendices A through D of 2 CFR part 1122 provided for NP Articles I through IV of the award (as permitted in accordance with DoDGARs provisions at 2 CFR 1122.115 and 1122.120).
(2) May make corresponding alterations to the wording appendix I to this part provides for SUB Article IX if the DoD Component did modify the wording of NP Articles I through IV, in order to conform the national policy requirements in SUB Article IX to the requirements in those modified articles.

# Subpart J—Subrecipient Monitoring and Other Post-Award Administration (SUB Article X)
§ 1138.1000
Purpose of SUB Article X.
SUB Article X specifies the requirements for recipients' monitoring of subrecipients and related post-award administration of subawards they make under DoD grants and cooperative agreements. It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.331(d) through (h) and 2 CFR 200.340(a).
§ 1138.1005
Content of SUB Article X.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify requirements for recipients' monitoring of subrecipients and related post-award administration of subawards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix J to this part provides for SUB Article X of its general terms and conditions.

# Subpart K—Requirements Concerning Subrecipients' Lower-Tier Subawards (SUB Article XI)
§ 1138.1100
Purpose of SUB Article XI.
SUB Article XI specifies requirements that a recipient must include in any subaward under which it judges that the subrecipient may make lower-tier subawards. It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.331(a) through (c) and other portions of 2 CFR part 200 as they apply to lower-tier subawards.
§ 1138.1105
Content of SUB Article XI.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must address requirements that recipients must include in subawards to entities that may make lower-tier subawards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix K to this part provides for SUB Article XI.

# Subpart L—Fixed-Amount Subawards (SUB Article XII)
§ 1138.1200
Purpose of SUB Article XII.
SUB Article XII specifies policy and procedures concerning recipients' use of fixed-amount subawards under DoD grants and cooperative agreements. It thereby implements OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.201(b) and 200.332 and other portions of 2 CFR part 200 as they apply to fixed-amount subawards.
§ 1138.1205
Content of SUB Article XII.
(a)
Requirement.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must address how a recipient may use a fixed-amount type of subaward, when it requires the Component's prior approval to do so, and what requirements the recipient must include in those subawards.
(b)
Award terms and conditions
— (1)
General.
A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the wording appendix L to this part provides for SUB Article XII.
(2)
Exceptions.
(i) In addition to the authorities provided in § 1138.5 to omit or reserve all or portions of the wording appendix L to this part provides for SUB Article XII, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions may add wording to Section B of the article to authorize recipients to use fixed-amount subawards without obtaining the Component's prior approval in other situations for which it would be appropriate to do so, given the nature of the program or programs that use its general terms and conditions.
(ii) However, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions should never authorize recipients' use of fixed-amount subawards for basic or applied research, for the reason given in paragraph B.2.a.ii of the wording appendix L provides for SUB Article XII. It is
unrealistic to have a subrecipient commit in advance to accomplishing specific, well-defined, and observable research outcomes. Doing so subjects the subrecipient to undue risk of not being reimbursed for research costs it incurred if it fails to fully accomplish the outcomes.
Pt. 1138, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1138—Terms and Conditions for SUB Article I, “Distinguishing Subawards and Procurements”
Unless modified as provided in § 1138.5, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for SUB Article I.

# SUB Article I. Distinguishing Subawards and Procurements. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Required recipient determination.
For each transaction into which you enter with another entity at the next tier below this award, you must determine whether the transaction is a subaward or a procurement.
Section B. Considerations in making the determination.
1. The primary purpose of the transaction between you and the other entity is the key factor you must use to determine whether the transaction is a subaward or a procurement.
a. The transaction is a subaward and the other entity therefore a subrecipient if the transaction's primary purpose is for you to transfer—for performance by the other entity—a portion of the substantive program for which we are providing financial assistance to you through this award. You will continue to be accountable to us for performance of the project or program under the award, including portions performed by any subrecipients.
b. The transaction is a procurement and the other entity therefore your contractor if the transaction's primary purpose is for you to purchase goods or services that you need to perform the substantive program supported by this award. The distinction from a subaward is the contractor is not performing a portion of the substantive program as a result of the transaction.
2. What you call the transaction is not a factor in distinguishing a subaward from a procurement. If the transaction meets the criterion in paragraph B.1.a of this article, it is a subaward for purposes of the requirements of this award even if you call and consider the transaction a “contract.”
Section C. Effect of the determination on the next-tier transaction.
1.
Process for awarding the transaction.
One important consequence of your determining whether a next-tier transaction is a subaward or a procurement is that there are different requirements governing the pre-award and time of award processes that you use to award the transaction.
a. SUB Article II of this award specifies pre-award and time of award responsibilities for subawards.
b. PROC Articles I and II of this award govern pre-award and time of award processes for awarding procurement transactions.
2.
Transaction terms and conditions.
A second important consequence of your determining whether a next-tier transaction is a subaward or a procurement is that the terms and conditions you include in a subaward differ from those you include in a procurement transaction.
a. Section C of SUB Article II of this award addresses requirements you must include in subaward terms and conditions. Those requirements generally are either identical or directly related to requirements in the general terms and conditions of this award. They include national policy requirements as well as administrative requirements in areas such as financial and programmatic management, property administration, procurement, and reporting.
b. PROC Article III of this award lists requirements you must include in a procurement transaction when applicable to the procurement.
Pt. 1138, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1138—Terms and Conditions for SUB Article II, “Pre-Award and Time of Award Responsibilities”
Unless modified as provided in § 1138.5, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for SUB Article II.

# SUB Article II. Pre-Award and Time of Award Responsibilities. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Requirements for unique entity identifiers.
1.
Definition of “entity.”
For purposes of the unique entity identifier requirements in paragraphs A.2 and 3 of this section, “entity” has the meaning given in paragraph C.3 of appendix A to OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 25.
2.
Pre-notification of potential subrecipients.
You must notify potential subrecipients that no entity may receive a subaward from you under this award unless it has provided its unique entity identifier to you.
3.
Restriction on making subawards.
a.
General.
You may not make a subaward to an entity unless the entity has provided its unique entity identifier to you.
b.
Exception.
You may make a subaward to an entity that has not provided its unique entity identifier to you in rare cases in which you requested, and we approved, an
exemption from the requirement for the entity to provide a unique entity identifier, based on the criteria in OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 25.110(d).
Section B. Pre-award risk assessment.
1. Before making a subaward to an entity, you must perform a risk assessment of the prospective subrecipient, as described in 2 CFR 200.331(b). OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.205(c) provides examples of factors you may consider in evaluating risk.
2. As part of the risk assessment under paragraph B.1 of this article, you must:
a. Verify that neither the prospective subrecipient nor its principals under the subaward are excluded or disqualified from participating in the transaction, in accordance with requirements in Subpart C of OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180, as implemented by DoD at 2 CFR part 1125; and
b. If warranted by risks you identify, determine whether to impose award-specific terms and conditions in the subaward to mitigate the risks.
i. These award-specific terms and conditions may be in addition to, or differ from, the terms and conditions that SUB Articles IV through IX of this award require you to include in subawards.
ii. They may include items such as those listed in OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.207(b)(1) through (6).
iii. Your procedures for imposing and removing the additional or different requirements must comply with the procedural guidance in 2 CFR 200.207(c) and (d).
Section C. Subaward content.
1.
Cost-type subawards.
a. SUB Article III of this award specifies informational content that you must include in each cost-type subaward.
b. SUB Articles IV through VIII specify administrative requirements that you must include:
i. As applicable, in each cost-type subaward to:
(A) A domestic U.S. entity (
i.e.,
an entity other than a foreign public entity or a foreign organization); or
(B) An organizational unit of a foreign organization if that unit has a place of business in the United States; and
ii. To the maximum extent practicable in each cost-type subaward to either a foreign public entity or an organizational unit of a foreign organization that does not have a place of business in the United States (regardless of whether another organizational unit of that foreign organization has one). However, absent our prior approval, you may not allow that foreign entity or organization to acquire real property or equipment under a subaward.
c. SUB Article IX of this award specifies national policy requirements that you must include, as applicable, in each cost-type subaward.
2.
Fixed-amount type subawards.
a. Sections A through F of SUB Article III of this award specify informational content that you must include in each fixed-amount subaward.
b. SUB Article IX of this award specifies national policy requirements that you must include, as applicable, in each fixed-amount subaward.
c. Section D of SUB Article XII of this award specifies administrative requirements that you must include, as applicable, in any fixed-amount subaward to:
i. A domestic U.S. entity (
i.e.,
an entity other than a foreign public entity or a foreign organization); or
ii. An organizational unit of a foreign organization if that unit has a place of business in the United States; and
iii. To the maximum extent practicable to either a foreign public entity or an organizational unit of a foreign organization that does not have a place of business in the United States (regardless of whether another organizational unit of that foreign organization has one). However, absent our prior approval, you may not allow that foreign entity or organization to acquire real property or equipment under a subaward.
3.
Additional subaward terms and conditions.
You may include other requirements in your subawards that you need in order to meet your responsibilities under this award for performance of the project or program (including portions performed by subrecipients) and compliance with applicable administrative and national policy requirements.
Section D. Subaward and executive compensation reporting.
You must report subaward obligating actions and information on subrecipients' executive compensation as required by REP Article IV of this award.
Pt. 1138, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 1138—Terms and Conditions for SUB Article III, “Informational Content of Subawards”
Unless modified as provided in § 1138.5, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for SUB Article III.

# SUB Article III. Informational Content of Subawards. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Informational content in general.
You must include in each subaward (and each subsequent amendment to a subaward that alters the amount of the subaward) the information specified in OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.331(a)(1), “Federal Award Identification,” with the clarifications provided in Sections B through G of this article.
Section B. Federal award identification number and award date.
The “Federal Award Identification Number” and “Federal Award
Date” described in 2 CFR 200.331(a)(1)(iii) and (iv), respectively, are the award number and award date for this award to you. You must provide the information in a way that makes it clear that the subaward is under this DoD award.
Section C. Amount of Federal funds obligated.
1. The “Amount of Federal Funds Obligated by this action by the pass-through entity to the subrecipient” that is described in 2 CFR 200.331(a)(1)(vi) is either:
a. The amount of your obligation to the subrecipient, if the terms and conditions of this award do not require you to provide any cost sharing or matching for the project or program the award supports; or
b. The amount of the Federal share of your subaward obligation if this award does require cost sharing or matching, which in that case is the product of:
i. The Federal share of total project costs under this DoD award to you, as a percentage of those total project costs; and
ii. The total amount of project costs obligated for the subaward action.
2. Note that the total project costs of the award and subaward, as used in paragraphs C.1.b.i and ii of this section, include any cost sharing or matching that you or the subrecipient provides if you are counting it toward the cost sharing or matching required under this award.
Section D. Total amount obligated to the subrecipient.
The “Total Amount of Federal Funds Obligated to the Subrecipient by the pass-through entity including the current obligation,” as described in 2 CFR 200.331(a)(1)(vii), is the cumulative amount to date of the amounts described in Section C of this article.
Section E. Total Amount of the Federal Award.
The “Total Amount of the Federal Award committed to the subrecipient by the pass-through entity,” as described in 2 CFR 200.331(a)(1)(viii), is the total amount through the end of the subaward that you and the subrecipient mutually agreed upon, to include: Funding obligated to date, any future anticipated funding increments, and any options you may exercise in the future.
Section F. Federal awarding agency, pass-through entity, and awarding official.
The “Name of Federal awarding agency” and “pass-through entity,” as those terms are used in 2 CFR 200.331(a)(1)(x) are the DoD and the business name associated with your registration in SAM. In that same paragraph of 2 CFR part 200, the “awarding official” is the individual in your organization who made the subaward.
Section G. Indirect cost rate.
With respect to the requirement in 2 CFR 200.331(a)(1)(xiii) for the subaward to include the “Indirect cost rate for the Federal award:”
1. This requirement applies to cost-type subawards only.
2. The rate the subaward must include is the subrecipient's rate, whether it is a rate set by negotiation with a Federal agency or you or is the de minimis rate described in 2 CFR 200.414(f).
3. You are required to include the indirect cost rate only if the subrecipient is willing to share that information with you and assents that information about its rate is not proprietary. If a subrecipient is not willing to share information about its indirect cost rate with you, consult the grants officer for this award to explore alternative ways to assess the reasonableness of costs of the subaward.
Pt. 1138, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 1138—Terms and Conditions for SUB Article IV, “Financial and Program Management Requirements for Subawards”
Unless modified as provided in § 1138.5, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for SUB Article IV.

# SUB Article IV. Financial and Program Management Requirements for Subawards. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Purposes of this article in relation to other articles.
1. This article specifies administrative requirements concerning financial and program management that you must include in the terms and conditions of each cost-type subaward that you make under this award to a domestic entity.
2. It thereby addresses the flow down to subrecipients of requirements with which you must comply under FMS Articles I through VII of this award.
3. SUB Article XII of this award addresses which of these administrative requirements you must include in any fixed-amount subaward that you make, if you are authorized to make fixed-amount subawards under this award.
Section B. Financial management system standards.
You must include in any subaward you make under this award the requirements of:
1. Sections A through C of FMS Article I of this award if the subrecipient is a State;
2. Sections B and C of FMS Article I if the subrecipient is an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe; or
3. 32 CFR 34.11 if the subrecipient is a for-profit entity.
Section C. Payments.
1.
Subawards to States.
You must include the provisions of Section A of FMS Article II of this award in each subaward you make to a State;
2.
Subawards to institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, local governments, and Indian tribes.
The following paragraphs specify requirements you must include in subawards to institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, local governments, and Indian tribes.
a.
Payment method.
i. If you are authorized to request advance payments under this award, you must authorize a subrecipient to request advance payments unless:
(A) The subrecipient does not maintain, or demonstrate the willingness to maintain, written procedures that minimize the time elapsing between its receipt of each payment and its disbursement of the funds for project or program purposes;
(B) You impose a requirement for the subrecipient to be paid by reimbursement as a result of your risk evaluation of the subrecipient under SUB Article II of this award.
(C) The subaward is for construction.
ii. If you do not authorize advance payments for one of the reasons given in paragraph C.2.a.i of this article, you must specify either reimbursement or working capital advances as the payment method in accordance with OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(3) and (4).
b.
Payment timing and amount.
i.
Advances.
You must limit advance payments to the minimum amounts needed and time the payments to be in accordance with the subrecipient's actual, immediate cash requirements in carrying out the project or program under the subaward. The timing and amount of your advance payments to the subrecipient must be as close as is administratively feasible to the subrecipient's actual disbursements for direct project costs and the proportionate share of any allowable indirect costs. Your subawards also must include the requirements of paragraphs B.2.b and c of FMS Article II to specify costs subrecipients must exclude from amounts of their advance payment requests.
ii.
Reimbursements or working capital advances.
You must follow OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(3) and (4) concerning timing and amount of reimbursements or working capital advances.
c.
Frequency of requests.
You must allow the subrecipient to request advance payments or reimbursements, including those associated with the working capital advance payment method, as often as it wishes if you pay using electronic funds transfers and at least monthly otherwise.
d.
Other requirements.
i. In any subaward that was subject to our consent, you must include the requirements of paragraph B.5 of FMS Article II of this award concerning withholding of payments.
ii. You must include the provisions of paragraph B.6 of FMS Article II concerning depositories in each subaward that authorizes the subrecipient to request advance payments.
3.
Subawards to for-profit entities.
The provision concerning payments in each subaward you make to a for-profit entity must conform to the requirements in 32 CFR 34.12.
Section D. Allowable costs, period of availability of funds, and fee and profit.
1. You must include in each cost-type subaward a requirement that the allowability of costs under the subaward (and any lower-tier subawards or procurement transactions into which the subrecipient enters) must be determined in accordance with the applicable cost principles identified in Section A of FMS Article III of this award, as well as the clarification in Section B of that article if it applies to those cost principles.
2. You must specify in each subaward the period of availability of funds for any project or program purpose so that the period neither begins before nor ends after the period during which you may use funds available to you under this award for that same project or program purpose.
3. You must include in each subaward the provisions concerning fee or profit that are in Section D of FMS Article III of this award.
Section E. Revision of budget and program plans.
You must include in each subaward provisions requiring the subrecipient to request your approval for any change in the subaward budget or program that would cause a budget or program change under this award for which Section B of FMS Article IV requires you to first obtain our prior approval. You may not approve any budget or program revision that is inconsistent with the purpose or terms and conditions of this award.
Section F. Non-Federal audits.
You must include a provision in each subaward that you make under this award to require the subrecipient entity to comply with the audit requirements applicable to that entity, as specified in either Section A or Section B of FMS Article V.
Section G. Cost sharing or matching requirements.
If you make a subaward under which the subrecipient may provide contributions or donations of cash or third-party in-kind contributions to be counted toward any cost sharing or matching that is required under this award, you must include provisions in that subaward to specify:
1. The criteria governing the allowability as cost sharing or matching of the types of cash or third-party in-kind contributions that the subrecipient may contribute or donate. Those criteria are specified in:
a. Sections B through D of FMS Article VI of this award if the subaward is to a State, institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe.
b. The provisions of 32 CFR 34.13(a) if the subaward is to a for-profit entity.
2. The methods for determining and documenting the values of those contributions or donations to be counted as cost sharing or matching. Those methods are specified in:
a. Sections E and F of FMS Article VI of this award if the subaward is to a State, institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe.
b. The provisions of 32 CFR 34.13(b) if the subaward is to a for-profit entity.
Section H. Program income.
You must include requirements concerning program income in subawards, as follows:
1. In each subaward to a State, institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe:
a. You must require the subrecipient to account to you when it earns any program income under the subaward or uses it, so that you can prepare reports you are required to submit to us. If the award-specific terms and conditions of this award require you to account for program income earned after the period of performance, you must include a corresponding requirement in your subawards.
b. You must include the provisions of Sections A through D of FMS Article VII of this award.
c. You may specify the deduction, addition, or cost-sharing or matching alternative—described in 2 CFR 1128.720(b)—or a combination of those alternatives, for the subrecipient's use of any program income it earns. However, you still must comply with the alternative specified in Section E of FMS Article VII and any applicable award-specific terms and conditions for the total amount of program income earned, which includes amounts earned by you and your subrecipients. For example, if we require you to use the deduction alternative, you may authorize a subrecipient to use the addition alternative if you reduce the funding allocated for portions of the project or program that you or other subrecipients perform to make the required reduction in the total award amount.
2. In each subaward to a for-profit entity, you must include the provisions of 32 CFR 34.14, with the appropriate method specified for disposition of program income.
Pt. 1138, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 1138—Terms and Conditions for SUB Article V, “Property Requirements for Subawards”
Unless modified as provided in § 1138.5 or either or both of the exceptions in § 1138.505 and § 1138.520 are applied, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for SUB Article V (as specified in §§ 1138.500 through 1138.520).

# SUB Article V. Property Requirements for Subawards. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Purposes of this article in relation to other articles.
1. This article specifies administrative requirements concerning property that you must include in the terms and conditions of each cost-type subaward that you make under this award.
2. It thereby addresses the flow down to subrecipients of requirements with which you must comply under PROP Articles I through VI of this award.
3. SUB Article XII of this award addresses which of these administrative requirements you must include in any fixed-amount subaward that you make, if you are authorized to make fixed-amount subawards under this award.
Section B. Title to property.
1.
Subawards to institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, States, local governments, or Indian tribes.
a.
General.
You must include terms and conditions in each subaward to flow down to the subrecipient the provisions of:
i. Paragraph A.1 of PROP Article I concerning vesting of title to property acquired under the subaward unless paragraph B.1.b of this section provides otherwise.
ii. Sections B through E of PROP Article I that are applicable to types of property that the subrecipient may acquire, improve, donate, or for which it may otherwise be accountable under the subaward.
b.
Exceptions.
[Reserved]
2.
Subawards to for-profit entities.
a.
Real property and equipment.
You must obtain the prior approval of the grants officer before permitting any for-profit subrecipient to acquire or improve real property or equipment under the award.
i. If the grants officer does not grant the approval, you must include a subaward provision that prohibits the for-profit entity from acquiring or improving real property or equipment under the subaward.
ii. If the approval is granted, you must include a subaward provision specifying that title vesting and Federal interest are governed by provisions of 32 CFR 34.21(b) and (c).
b.
Supplies.
You must include a subaward provision specifying that vesting of title to supplies is governed by provisions of 32 CFR 34.24(a), subject to the use and disposition requirements of 32 CFR 34.24(b).
c.
Federally owned property.
You must include a provision in any subaward to a for-profit entity under which the entity may be accountable for federally owned property, to state that title to such property will remain vested in the Federal Government.
Section C. Property management system.
If you make a subaward under which the subrecipient either may acquire or improve
equipment, or may be accountable for federally owned property, you must include in the subaward:
1. If the subrecipient is a State, applicable provisions of:
a. Section A of PROP Article II concerning insurance for real property and equipment.
b. Section B of PROP Article II concerning other property management system standards.
2. If the subrecipient is an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe, applicable provisions of:
a. Section A of PROP Article II concerning insurance for real property and equipment.
b. Section C of PROP Article II concerning other property management system standards.
3. If the subrecipient is a for-profit entity, applicable provisions of 32 CFR 34.22(a) and 34.23 and:
a. The for-profit entity may be accountable under the subaward for federally owned property; or
b. You obtained the grants officer's prior approval for the for-profit entity's acquisition of equipment under the subaward.
Section D. Use and disposition of real property.
If the subrecipient of a subaward you make under this award may acquire or improve real property, then you must include in the subaward:
1.
Use.
The requirements concerning use of real property:
a. In Section A of PROP Article III if the subaward is to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe, unless the award-specific terms and conditions of this award provide otherwise; and
b. In 32 CFR 34.21(d) if the subaward is to a for-profit entity and you obtained the grants officer's prior approval for the entity's acquisition of real property under the subaward.
2.
Disposition.
Provisions to require the subrecipient to request disposition instructions through you when the property is no longer needed for its originally authorized purpose, so that you can meet your responsibilities to us under Section B of PROP Article III to address the Federal interest in the property.
Section E. Use and disposition of equipment and supplies.
If you make a subaward under which the subrecipient may acquire or improve equipment, or acquire supplies, you must include in the subaward, as applicable:
1. If the subaward is to a State:
a. The requirements in Sections B and E of PROP Article IV concerning use and disposition of equipment and supplies; and
b. Provisions such as those in Section A of PROP Article IV that make clear the applicability of those requirements.
2. If the subaward is to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe:
a. The requirements in Sections C and E of PROP Article IV concerning use of equipment and use and disposition of supplies;
b. Provisions such as those in Section A of PROP Article IV that make clear the applicability of those requirements; and
c. Provisions to require the subrecipient to request disposition instructions from you when equipment is no longer needed for its originally authorized purpose, so that you can meet your responsibilities to us under Section D of PROP Article IV to address the Federal interest in the equipment.
3. If the subaward is to a for-profit entity:
a. The requirements concerning use and disposition of supplies in 32 CFR 34.24(b);
b. And you obtained the grants officer's prior approval for the for-profit entity's acquisition of equipment under the subaward:
i. The requirements concerning use of equipment in 32 CFR 34.21(d); and
ii. Provisions such as those in Section A of PROP Article IV that make clear the applicability of those requirements; and
iii. Provisions to require the subrecipient to request disposition instructions from you when equipment is no longer needed for its originally authorized purpose, so that you can meet your responsibilities to us under Section B or D of PROP Article IV to address the Federal interest in the equipment.
Section F. Use and disposition of federally owned property.
If you make a subaward under which the subrecipient may be accountable for federally owned property, you must include subaward provisions specifying that the subrecipient:
1. May use the property for purposes specified in paragraph A.1 of PROP Article V;
2. Must submit requests through you for the award administration office's approval to use the property for other purposes, as described in paragraph A.2 of PROP Article V;
3. Must request the award administration office's disposition instructions through you when the property is no longer needed for subaward purposes or the subaward ends.
Section G. Intangible property.
You must include in a subaward provisions specifying the requirements of:
1. Sections A through D of PROP Article VI if the subaward is to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe.
2. Section A of PROP Article VI as it applies to works developed under the subaward, Section B of PROP Article VI, and paragraph C.1 of Section C of PROP Article VI, if the subaward is to a for-profit entity.
Pt. 1138, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 1138—Terms and Conditions for SUB Article VI, “Procurement Procedures to Include in Subawards”
Unless modified as provided in § 1138.5, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for SUB Article VI.

# SUB Article VI. Procurement Procedures To Include in Subawards. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Purposes of this article in relation to other articles.
1. This article specifies administrative requirements concerning procurement procedures that you must include in the terms and conditions of each cost-type subaward that you make under this award.
2. It thereby addresses the flow down to subrecipients of requirements with which you must comply under PROC Articles I through III of this award.
3. SUB Article XII of this award addresses which of these administrative requirements you must include in any fixed-amount subaward that you make, if you are authorized to make fixed-amount subawards under this award.
Section B. Subaward to a State.
In any subaward that you make to a State, you must include the requirements of PROC Article I and applicable sections of PROC Article III of this award.
Section C. Subaward to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe.
In any subaward that you make to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe:
1. You must include the requirements of Sections A through G of PROC Article II and applicable sections of PROC Article III of this award.
2. You must include the requirement for the subrecipient to make available to you, upon request:
a. Technical specifications of proposed procurements, under the conditions described in OMB guidance at 2 CFR 200.324(a); and
b. Other procurement documents for pre-procurement review, under the conditions described in OMB guidance at 2 CFR 200.324(b).
3. If it is possible that, under a subaward you make, the subrecipient may award a construction or facility improvement contract with a value in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, you must include provisions in the subaward to require the subrecipient to comply with at least the minimum requirements for bidders' bid guarantees and contractors' performance and payment bonds described in 2 CFR 200.325(a) through (c), unless you determine that the subrecipient's bonding policy and requirements are adequate to protect Federal interests.
Section D. Subaward to a for-profit entity.
In any subaward you make to a for-profit entity, you must include the requirements in 32 CFR 34.31.
Pt. 1138, App. G

# Appendix G to Part 1138—Terms and Conditions for SUB Article VII, “Financial, Programmatic, and Property Reporting Requirements for Subawards”
Unless modified as provided in § 1138.5, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for SUB Article VII (as specified in §§ 1138.700 through 1138.715).

# SUB Article VII. Financial, Programmatic, and Property Reporting Requirements for Subawards. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Purposes of this article in relation to other articles.
1. This article specifies administrative requirements concerning reporting that you must include in the terms and conditions of each cost-type subaward that you make under this award.
2. It thereby addresses the flow down to subrecipients of requirements with which you must comply under REP Articles I through III of this award.
3. SUB Article XII of this award addresses which of these administrative requirements you must include in any fixed-amount subaward that you make, if you are authorized to make fixed-amount subawards under this award.
Section B. Performance reporting.
1. You must include terms and conditions in each subaward to require the subrecipient to provide any performance information you need, by the time you need it, to comply with the performance reporting requirements in REP Article I and other terms and conditions of this award.
2. You may specify a form, format, or data elements for use by the subrecipient to provide the information to you (you need not require the subrecipient to use the same form, format, or data elements that REP Article I specifies for your reporting to us).
Section C. Financial reporting.
1. You must include terms and conditions in each subaward to require the subrecipient to provide any financial information you need, by the time you need it, to comply with the financial reporting requirements in REP Article II and other terms and conditions of this award.
2. You may specify a form, format, or data elements for use by the subrecipient to provide the information to you (you need not require the subrecipient to use the same form,
format, or data elements that REP Article II specifies for your reporting to us).
Section D. Reporting on property.
1. Each subaward you make under this award must include provisions concerning property reporting as described in paragraph D.2 of this section if the subrecipient may, under the subaward:
a. Acquire or improve real property or equipment;
b. Acquire supplies or intangible property; or
c. Be accountable for federally owned property.
2. The subaward provisions must require the subrecipient to give you the information you need about the property in order to meet your responsibilities to us under Sections A through D of REP Article III and PROP Articles II through VI.
Section E. Other reporting
[Reserved]
Pt. 1138, App. H

# Appendix H to Part 1138—Terms and Conditions for SUB Article VIII, “Other Administrative Requirements for Subawards”
Unless modified as provided in § 1138.5, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for SUB Article VIII, as specified in § 1138.805, but may add a section(s), as appropriate.

# SUB Article VIII. Other Administrative Requirements for Subawards. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Purposes of this article in relation to other articles.
1. This article specifies other administrative requirements that you either must or should include in the terms and conditions of each cost-type subaward that you make under this award.
2. It thereby addresses the flow down to subrecipients of requirements with which you must comply under OAR Articles I through VII of this award.
3. SUB Article XII of this award addresses which of these administrative requirements you must include in any fixed-amount subaward that you make, if you are authorized to make fixed-amount subawards under this award.
Section B. Submission and maintenance of subrecipient information.
You must include the substance of the provision in Section C of OAR Article I in any subaward you make under this award. The provision must require the subrecipient's disclosure of any evidence directly to the Inspector General, DoD.
Section C. Records retention and access.
In each subaward you make under this award:
1. If the subaward is to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe:
a. You must include the requirements of Section A of OAR Article II with the additional condition that, for any subrecipient under this award that does not have a federally approved rate for indirect or facilities and administrative costs and that does not use the de minimis rate described in 2 CFR 200.414(f), you must:
i. Require the subrecipient to keep records that support its indirect or facilities and administrative costs charged to the subaward for 3 years from the end of the fiscal year (or other accounting period) to which the costs apply; and
ii. Keep any plan or computation the subrecipient submits to you to serve as a basis for your determining the reasonableness and allowability of indirect or facilities and administrative costs of the subaward, for 3 years from the end of the fiscal year (or other accounting period) to which the proposal, plan, or computation applies.
b. You must include the requirements of Sections B, C, and F of OAR Article II.
c. You must include provisions that enable you to comply with the requirements of Section D of OAR Article II concerning records for joint or long-term use.
d. You must include provisions that establish the same rights and responsibilities for the subrecipient under the subaward that Section E of OAR Article II establishes for you under this award.
e. You may not impose any other record retention or access requirements on the subrecipient.
2. If the subaward is to a for-profit entity, you must include the records retention and access provisions of 32 CFR 34.42.
Section D. Remedies and termination.
The terms and conditions of each subaward you make under this award should specify your rights and responsibilities and those of the subrecipient if you take a remedial action to address a subrecipient's noncompliance with an applicable Federal statute or regulation or the terms and conditions of your subaward. Each subaward's terms and conditions should:
1. Identify remedial actions you may take to address the subrecipient's noncompliance. Available remedies are described in:
a. OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.338 for a subaward to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe; and
b. 32 CFR 34.52 for a subaward to a for-profit entity.
2. With respect to termination specifically:
a. Identify conditions under which you, the subrecipient, or both (by mutual agreement) may terminate the subaward, in whole or in part, as described in:
i. OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.339(a) for a subaward to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe; and
ii. 32 CFR 34.51 for a subaward to a for-profit entity.
b. Inform the subrecipient that you will provide it with a notice of termination if you unilaterally terminate the award.
c. Specify that you and the subrecipient remain responsible for applicable requirements addressed in Sections G and H of this article concerning closeout, post-closeout adjustments, and continuing responsibilities.
3. With respect to either suspension or termination of the subaward, inform the subrecipient about the criteria that you will use to either allow or disallow subaward costs, which are in:
a. Section D of OAR Article III for a subaward to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe; and
b. 32 CFR 34.52(c) for a subaward to a for-profit entity.
Section E. Disputes, hearings, and appeals.
Each subaward's terms and conditions should specify any rights the subrecipient has to a hearing, appeal, or other administrative proceeding if it disputes a decision you render in administering its subaward. You must comply with any statute or regulation that affords the subrecipient an opportunity for a hearing, appeal, or other administrative proceeding and is applicable to the dispute.
Section F. Collection of amounts due.
Although your subaward terms and conditions do not need to include any of the requirements of OAR Article V because those requirements do not flow down to subrecipients, you should consider including provisions to specify what you would need from the subrecipient if you owed a debt to the Federal Government under this award that is related to its subaward.
Section G. Closeout.
1. In each subaward that you make to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe, you must include provisions to require the subrecipient to:
a. Liquidate all obligations that it incurred under the subaward not later than 90 calendar days after the end date of the period of performance of either the subaward or this award, whichever is earlier, unless you grant an extension.
b. Promptly refund to you any balances of unobligated cash that you advanced or paid to the subrecipient, unless you received authorization from the DoD award administration office for the subrecipient's use of those funds on other projects or programs.
c. Submit to you:
i. Any information you need from the subrecipient to meet your responsibilities to us for an accounting of property, under Section D of OAR Article VI; and
ii. Not later than 90 calendar days after the end date of the period of performance of this award, unless you grant the subrecipient an extension, any information you need to meet your responsibilities to us for final reports, under Section C of OAR Article VI.
2. In each subaward that you make to a for-profit entity, you must include the terms and conditions that you deem necessary for you to be able to comply with the requirements in OAR Article VI.
Section H. Post-closeout adjustments and continuing responsibilities.
You must include provisions in each subaward to require the subrecipient to provide what you need in order to comply with the requirements of OAR Article VII.
Pt. 1138, App. I

# Appendix I to Part 1138—Terms and Conditions for SUB Article IX, “National Policy Requirements for Subawards”
Unless modified as provided in § 1138.5, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for SUB Article IX, as specified in § 1138.905, or may modify the wording of the article, consistent with the Component's treatment of NP Articles I through IV in those terms and conditions.

# SUB Article IX. National Policy Requirements for Subawards. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. General.
1. You must include provisions in the terms and conditions of each subaward you make, whether cost-type or fixed-amount type, to require the subrecipient entity's compliance with each of the national policy requirements in Sections B through E of this article that you determine is applicable, given the type of entity receiving the subaward and activities it will be carrying out under the subaward.
2. If an entity to which you are about to make a subaward will not accept an award provision requiring its compliance with a national policy requirement that you determine to be applicable, you must alert the award administration office immediately. You may not omit an applicable national policy requirement in order to make the subaward.
3. If at any time during the performance of a subaward, you learn that—or receive a credible allegation that—the subrecipient is not complying with an applicable national policy requirement, you must alert the award administration office immediately.
Section B. Nondiscrimination national policy requirements.
You must include provisions in each subaward to require the subrecipient's compliance with the nondiscrimination national policy requirements specified in paragraphs A.1 through A.5 of NP Article I, as applicable.
Section C. Environmental national policy requirements.
You must include provisions in each subaward to require that:
1. The subrecipient comply with all applicable Federal environmental laws and regulations, including those specified in paragraphs A.2, A.3, A.5, and A.6 of NP Article II, as applicable.
2. Provide any information you need, when you need it, in order to comply with the requirement to immediately notify us of potential environmental impacts specified in paragraphs A.4, A.5, and A.6 of NP Article II, as applicable, due to activities under the award (which includes subaward activities).
Section D. National policy requirements concerning live organisms
. You must include provisions in each subaward to require the subrecipient's compliance with the national policy requirements concerning human subjects and animals that are specified in paragraphs A.1 and A.2 of NP Article III, as applicable.
Section E. Other national policy requirements.
You must include provisions in each subaward to require the subrecipient's compliance with the national policy requirements in the following portions of NP Article IV of this award, as applicable:
1. Paragraph A.1.
2. Paragraphs A.3.a and b.
3. Paragraphs A.4 through A.17.
Pt. 1138, App. J

# Appendix J to Part 1138—Terms and Conditions for SUB Article X, “Subrecipient Monitoring and Other Post-Award Administration”
Unless modified as provided in § 1138.5, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for SUB Article X.

# SUB Article X. Subrecipient Monitoring and Other Post-Award Administration. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. General requirement for subrecipient monitoring.
You must do the post-award monitoring of the subrecipient's activities under each subaward that is needed in order for you to ensure that:
1. The subrecipient carries out the portion of the substantive project or program under this award.
2. The subrecipient is using funds under the subaward (including any cost sharing or matching the subrecipient provides that is counted as project costs in the approved budget of this award) for authorized purposes.
3. The subrecipient's performance under the subaward is in compliance with applicable Federal statutes and regulations, and the terms and conditions of your subaward.
Section B. Subrecipient monitoring actions.
1.
Required monitoring actions under cost-type subawards.
You must, as part of your post-award monitoring of each subrecipient:
a. Review the financial and programmatic information that your subaward terms and conditions require the subrecipient to provide, in accordance with Sections B and C of SUB Article VII of this award.
b. Follow up and ensure that the subrecipient takes timely and appropriate action to remedy deficiencies detected through any means, including audits and on-site reviews.
c. With respect to audits of subrecipients that are required under FMS Article V of this award:
i. Verify that the subrecipient is audited in accordance with those requirements, as applicable (note that Section F of SUB Article IV requires you to include those audit requirements for the subrecipient in the subaward's terms and conditions).
ii. Resolve and issue a management decision for audit findings that pertain to your subaward. Doing so is a requirement under either Section A or B of FMS Article V of this award (Section B requires that explicitly and Section A does so by implementing OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.521, as well as other portions of Subpart F of that part).
iii. Consider whether you need to adjust your own records related to this award based on results of audits, on-site reviews or other monitoring of the subrecipient and, as applicable, notify the award administration office.
2.
Other monitoring actions.
OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.331(e)(1) through (3) describes other actions that may be useful as part of your subrecipient monitoring program, depending on the outcomes of the pre-award risk assessment you conducted in accordance with Section B of SUB Article II.
Section C. Remedies and subaward suspension or termination.
With respect to any subaward under this award, you must:
1. Consider whether you need to take any remedial action if you determine that the subrecipient is noncompliant with an applicable Federal statute or regulation or the terms and conditions of your subaward, as described in Section D of SUB Article VIII.
2. Provide a notice of termination to the subrecipient if you terminate its subaward unilaterally for any reason prior to the end of the period of performance.
3. In the case of suspension or termination of a subaward prior to the end of the period of performance, allow or disallow subaward costs in accordance with Section D of OAR Article III.
Section D. Subaward closeout.
1. You will close out each subaward when you either:
a. Determine that the subrecipient has completed its programmatic performance under the subaward and all applicable administrative actions; or
b. Terminate the subaward, if you do so prior to the end of the subaward's period of performance.
2. With respect to the closeout of each subaward:
a. You must pay the subrecipient promptly for allowable and reimbursable costs.
b. Consistent with the terms and conditions of the subaward, you must make a settlement for any upward or downward adjustments to the Federal share of costs after you receive the information you need from the subrecipient to close out the subaward.
c. You should complete the closeout of the subaward no later than one year after you receive and accept the final reports and other information from the subrecipient that you need to close out the subaward.
Pt. 1138, App. K

# Appendix K to Part 1138—Terms and Conditions for SUB Article XI, “Requirements Concerning Subrecipients' Lower-Tier Subawards”
Unless modified as provided in § 1138.5, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for SUB Article XI.

# SUB Article XI. Requirements Concerning Subrecipients' Lower-Tier Subawards. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Purpose.
This article specifies requirements you must include in any cost-type subaward under which you determine that the subrecipient of your subaward may make lower-tier cost-type subawards to other entities. Paragraph G.1 of SUB Article XII specifies requirements related to fixed-amount type subawards at lower tiers.
Section B. Requirements for lower-tier subawards.
Your cost-type subaward terms and conditions must require your subrecipient, with respect to each lower-tier cost-type subaward that it makes, to:
1. Ensure that the lower-tier transaction is a subaward, rather than a procurement, by making the determination that SUB Article I of this award requires you to make for your subawards.
2. Conduct the pre-award risk assessment of its intended subrecipient that Section B of SUB Article II of this award requires you to make for your subawards.
3. Include in any cost-type subaward it makes at the next tier:
a. The informational content that SUB Article III specifies;
b. The administrative requirements that SUB Articles IV through VIII of this award specify;
c. The national policy requirements that SUB Article IX of this award specifies, as applicable; and
d. The requirements of this article if the next-tier subrecipient may make even lower-tier cost-type subawards to other entities.
4. Carry out the subrecipient monitoring and other post-award administration responsibilities specified in SUB Article X of this award.
Pt. 1138, App. L

# Appendix L to Part 1138—Terms and Conditions for SUB Article XII, “Fixed-Amount Subawards”
Unless modified as provided in § 1138.5 or 1138.1205, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for SUB Article XII.

# SUB Article XII. Fixed-Amount Subawards. (DECEMBER 2014)
Section A. Limitations on use.
1. You may not use a fixed-amount subaward:
a. If the total value over the life of the subaward will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
b. Unless the project or program scope is specific, with definite outcomes, and you are able to establish a reasonable estimate of the actual costs of accomplishing those outcomes.
c. If you will predetermine a set amount or percentage of cost sharing or matching that the subrecipient must provide under the subaward.
d. If the subrecipient will acquire any real property or equipment under the subaward.
2. For fixed-amount subawards not prohibited by paragraph 1 of this section and except as provided in Section B of this article, you must obtain our prior approval before making a fixed-amount type of subaward.
a. If Section B of FMS Article IV requires you to obtain our prior approval before you make any subaward, and you do not identify the subaward as a fixed-amount subaward when you obtain that approval, then you must subsequently request separate approval before awarding it as a fixed-amount type of subaward.
b. If a subaward is identified as a fixed-amount type of subaward in the budget you submit for our approval, then our approval of the budget is the required prior approval.
Section B. Fixed-amount subawards that do not require prior approval.
You are not required to obtain our prior approval before using a fixed-amount type of subaward if:
1. The subaward is to either:
a. A foreign public entity; or
b. An organizational unit of a foreign organization, if that unit does not have a place of business in the United States, regardless of whether another organizational unit of that foreign organization has one.
2. You determine that the portion of the project or program under this award which the subrecipient will be carrying out under
the subaward has one or more specific outcomes with the following characteristics:
a. You can define the outcomes well enough to specify them at the time you make the subaward. Note that:
i. Outcomes are distinct from inputs needed to achieve the outcomes, such as amounts or percentages of time that subrecipient employees or other participants will spend on the project or program.
ii. The inherently unpredictable nature of basic or applied research makes it rarely, if ever, possible to define specific research outcomes in advance, which makes fixed-amount subawards inappropriate for research. Note that technical performance reports serve to document research outcomes but are not themselves outcomes, notwithstanding the definition of “performance goals” in OMB guidance at 2 CFR 200.76.
b. The accomplishment of each outcome will be observable and verifiable by you when it occurs, so that you will not need to rely solely on the subrecipient's assurance of that accomplishment.
c. The subrecipient associates its estimated costs with outcomes in the proposal it submits to you, and you are confident that the costs of accomplishment of the outcomes will equal or exceed the subaward amount. This requires either that you have a high degree of confidence:
i. In your estimate of the costs associated with accomplishing the well-defined and observable outcomes, based on the prospective subrecipient's proposal (and using the applicable cost principles in FMS Article III as a guide); or
ii. That those costs will be within a finite range, rather than a specific amount, so that you may provide an amount of funding under the subaward that does not exceed the lower end of the range, with the provision that the subrecipient agrees to provide any balance above that amount that ultimately is needed to accomplish the outcomes. Your subaward then would include a term or condition to reflect the subrecipient's agreement to provide that balance (which would be in an amount to be post-determined, when the outcomes are accomplished). Note that this is distinct from a situation in which you predetermine a set amount or percentage of cost sharing or matching that the subrecipient must provide under its subaward, a situation in which paragraph A.1.c of this article prohibits use of a fixed-amount subaward.
3. a. The subaward is based on a fixed rate per unit of outcome (or “unit cost”) and you have both the confidence:
i. That is described in paragraph B.2.c of this article in the estimated costs associated with each unit of outcome; and
ii. In the subrecipient's guarantee that it can accomplish at least the number of units of outcome on which your total subaward amount will be based (
i.e.,
the product of the unit cost and the number of units of outcome the subrecipient guarantees to accomplish).
b. Note, however, that not every fixed rate subaward is also a fixed-amount subaward. If you have confidence in the unit cost but not also in the subrecipient's ability to guarantee the number of units of outcome that it will accomplish, then you should set a not-to-exceed award amount based on the number of units desired and reduce the subaward amount at the end if the subrecipient accomplishes fewer than that number. Examples of activities for which it may be appropriate to award this type of fixed rate subaward that is not a fixed-amount subaward include:
i. A clinical trial for which the unit cost is the cost of treating each participant. The not-to-exceed amount would be based on the number of participants the subrecipient planned to recruit and the final award on the number who actually participated, documentation for which would be subject to audit.
ii. Labor costs for performance of a portion of the project or program under this award by a for-profit entity that treats its indirect cost rate as proprietary information. The unit cost in that case may be “loaded” labor rates for the entity's employees that include indirect costs. The final award amount would depend on the number of labor hours the entity's employees expended under the subaward, documentation for which may be audited without exposing proprietary details associated with the actual costs.
Section C. Informational content of fixed-amount subawards.
You must include in each fixed-amount subaward the informational content, other than the indirect cost rate, that is described in SUB Article III of this award.
Section D. Terms and conditions addressing administrative requirements.
1.
General.
This section:
a. Specifies the minimum set of terms and conditions (in lieu of the more extensive set specified in SUB Articles IV through X for cost-type subawards) addressing administrative requirements that you must include in each fixed-amount subaward:
i. To an entity other than a foreign organization, as applicable; and
ii. To the maximum extent practicable, to a foreign organization.
b. Does not preclude the inclusion of other requirements that you need in order to meet your responsibilities under this award for performance of the project or program and compliance with applicable administrative and national policy requirements.
2.
Financial and program management requirements.
a.
Financial management system standards.
For a subaward to other than a for-profit entity, your subaward must require the subrecipient to include the information specified in paragraph B.1 of FMS Article I in its
financial management system, for the purposes of the non-Federal audits required by paragraph 2.d of this section.
b.
Payments.
Your payments must be based on accomplishment of the outcomes and associated costs that you used to establish the award amount, rather than on subrecipient expenditures for project or program purposes. Milestone payments before the end of the subaward's period of performance may be appropriate if there are outcomes that the subrecipient will accomplish at different times during that period.
c.
Revision of budget and program plans.
If our prior approval was required under paragraph A.2 of this article for use of a fixed-amount type of subaward, then you must:
i. Request our prior approval for any change in scope or objective of the subaward; and
ii. Include a requirement in the subaward for the subrecipient to request that approval through you.
d.
Non-Federal audits.
You must include the requirement for non-Federal audits described in Section F of SUB Article IV. The audits are intended to focus on compliance with the performance requirements in the subaward terms and conditions and not to review actual costs as they would for a cost-type subaward.
3.
Property requirements.
a.
Federally owned property
. If the subrecipient will be accountable for federally owned property, you must include the property management system, use, and disposition requirements described in Sections C and F of SUB Article V that are applicable to federally owned property.
b.
Intangible property.
You must include the applicable intangible property requirements described in Section G of SUB Article V.
4.
Reporting requirements.
You must include requirements for reporting that you need in order to meet your responsibilities under this award for reporting to us.
5.
Other administrative requirements.
a.
Integrity-related information.
You must include the substance of the provision in Section C of OAR Article I in any subaward you make under this award. The provision must require the subrecipient's disclosure of any evidence directly to the Inspector General, DoD.
b.
Records retention and access
.
i. You must include the requirements for records retention and access in paragraph A.3 and Sections B and F of OAR Article II, as applicable, if the subaward is to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe. You may not impose any other records retention or access requirements on the subrecipient.
ii. You must include the corresponding requirements of 32 CFR 34.42 if the subaward is to a for-profit entity.
c.
Remedies and termination.
You must include:
i. The requirements concerning remedies and termination that are described in paragraphs D.1 and 2 of SUB Article VIII;
ii. Provisions addressing any hearing and appeal rights the subrecipient has, as described in Section E of SUB Article VIII; and
iii. Terms and conditions addressing adjustment of the amount of the subaward if it is terminated before the subrecipient accomplishes all of the specified outcomes.
d.
Continuing responsibilities.
You must include requirements concerning continuing responsibilities for audits and records retention and access that are described in paragraphs B.1 and 3 of OAR Article VII.
e.
Collection of amounts due.
You should consider including requirements concerning collection of amounts due, as described in Section F of SUB Article VIII.
Section E. National policy requirements for fixed-amount subawards.
You must include in the terms and conditions of each fixed-amount subaward the national policy requirements that SUB Article IX of this award specifies, as applicable.
Section F. Subrecipient monitoring and other post-award administration.
You must carry out the subrecipient monitoring and post-award administration actions specified in SUB Article X, as applicable.
Section G. Fixed-amount subawards at lower tiers.
1.
Authority.
a. If Section B of this article authorizes you to use a fixed-amount type of subaward without our prior approval in some situations, a cost-type subaward that you make may authorize the subrecipient to use fixed-amount subawards at the next lower tier in those same situations without our prior approval.
b. If you wish to allow a subrecipient of a cost-type subaward to use fixed-amount subawards at the next tier in other situations (
i.e.,
situations in which this article requires you to obtain our prior approval before using a fixed-amount type of subaward), your subaward terms and conditions must require the subrecipient to submit a request through you to obtain our prior approval for use of that type of subaward.
2.
Subaward requirements.
If your subrecipient is authorized to use lower-tier fixed-amount subawards, as described in paragraphs 1.a and b of this section, your subaward's terms and conditions must:
a. Require the subrecipient, before it makes any lower-tier fixed-amount subaward, to:
i. Ensure that the lower-tier transaction is a subaward, rather than a procurement, by making the determination that SUB Article I of this award requires you to make for your subawards.
ii. Conduct the pre-award risk assessment of its intended subrecipient that Section B of SUB Article II of this award requires you to make for your subawards.
b. Include the requirements specified in Sections A through F of this article.
PART 1140 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER E [RESERVED]
PARTS 1141-1155 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER F [RESERVED]
PARTS 1156-1170 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER G [RESERVED]
PARTS 1171-1199 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. XII (1-1-25 Edition)
Department of Transportation

# CHAPTER XII—DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
Part
Page
1200
Nonprocurement suspension and debarment
495
1201
Uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards
496
1202-1299
[Reserved]
Pt. 1200

# PART 1200—NONPROCUREMENT SUSPENSION AND DEBARMENT
Sec.
1200.10
What does this part do?
1200.20
Does this part apply to me?
1200.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?

# Subpart A—General
1200.137
Who in the Department of Transportation may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
1200.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
1200.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
1200.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
Subparts E-J [Reserved]

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 322; Sec. 2455, Public Law 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note); E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189); E.O. 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235).

# Source:
73 FR 24140, May 2, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1200.10
What does this part do?
This part adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this part, as the Department of Transportation policies and procedures for nonprocurement suspension and debarment. It thereby gives regulatory effect for the Department of Transportation to the OMB guidance as supplemented by this part. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Supension and Debarment” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189), Executive Order 12689, “Suspension and Debarment” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Section 2455, Public Law 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327).
§ 1200.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 (see table at 2 CFR 180.100(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Participant or principal in a “covered transaction” (see subpart B of 2 CFR part 180 and the definition of “nonprocurement transaction” at 2 CFR 180.970;
(b) Respondent in a Department of Transportation suspension or debarment action;
(c) Department of Transportation debarment or suspension official;
(d) Department of Transportation grants officer, agreements officer, or other official authorized to enter into any type of nonprocurement transaction that is a covered transaction.
§ 1200.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
The Department of Transportation policies and procedures that you must follow are the policies and procedures specified in each applicable section of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as that section is supplemented by the section in this part with the same section number. The contracts that are covered transactions, for example, are specified by section 220 of the OMB guidance (i.e., 2 CFR 180.220), as supplemented by section 220 in this part (i.e., § 1200.220). For any section of OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR 180 that has no corresponding section in this part, Department of Transportation policies and procedures are those in the OMB guidance.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1200.137
Who in the Department of Transportation may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
Within the Department of Transportation, Office of the Secretary, the Secretary or an official designated by the
Secretary may grant an exception permitting an excluded person to participate in a particular covered transaction. Within an Operating Administration of the Department of Transportation, the head of the operating administration may grant an exception permitting an excluded person to participate in a particular covered transaction. The head of an operating administration may delegate this function and authorize successive delegations.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 1200.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?
In addition to the contracts covered under 2 CFR 180.220(b) of the OMB guidance, this part applies to any contract, regardless of tier, that is awarded by a contractor, subcontractor, supplier, consultant, or its agent or representative in any transaction, if the contract is to be funded or provided by the Department of Transportation under a covered nonprocurement transaction and the amount of the contract is expected to equal or exceed $25,000. This extends the coverage of the Department of Transportation nonprocurement suspension and debarment requirements to all lower tiers of subcontracts under covered nonprocurement transactions, as permitted under the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.220(c) (see optional lower-tier coverage in the figure in the appendix to 2 CFR part 180).

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
§ 1200.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
You as a participant must include a term or condition in lower-tier transactions requiring lower-tier participants to comply with subpart C of the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this subpart.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 1200.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
To communicate to a participant the requirements described in 2 CFR 180.435 of the OMB guidance, you must include a term or condition in the transaction that requires the participant's compliance with subpart C of 2 CFR part 180 and requires the participant to include a similar term or condition in lower-tier covered transactions.
Subparts E-J [Reserved]
Pt. 1201

# PART 1201—UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
Sec.
1201.1
What does this part do?
1201.2
Definitions.
1201.80
Program income.
1201.102
Exceptions.
1201.106
DOT Component implementation.
1201.107
DOT Headquarters responsibilities.
1201.108
Inquiries.
1201.109
Review date.
1201.112
Conflict of interest.
1201.207
Standard application requirements.
1201.313
Equipment.
1201.317
Procurements by States.
1201.319
Competition.
1201.328
Financial reporting.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 322(a); 2 CFR 200.106.

# Source:
79 FR 76049, Dec. 19, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1201.1
What does this part do?
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the Department of Transportation adopts the Office of Management and Budget Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards (2 CFR part 200). This part supersedes and repeals the requirements of the Department of Transportation Common Rules (49 CFR part 18—Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments and 49
CFR part 19—Uniform Administrative Requirements—Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and other Non-Profit Organizations), except that grants and cooperative agreements executed prior to December 26, 2014 shall continue to be subject to 49 CFR parts 18 and 19 as in effect on the date of such grants or agreements. New parts with terminology specific to the Department of Transportation follow.
§ 1201.2
Definitions.
Throughout this part, the term “DOT Component” refers to any Division, Office, or Mode (
e.g.,
the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), Federal Transit Administration (FTA), Maritime Administration (MARAD), National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Office of Inspector General (OIG), Office of the Secretary of Transportation (OST), Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation (SLSDC), and the Surface Transportation Board (STB)) within the Department of Transportation awarding Federal financial assistance. In addition, the term “DOT Headquarters” refers to the Secretary of Transportation or any office designated by the Secretary to fulfill headquarters' functions within any office under the Secretary's immediate supervision.
§ 1201.80
Program income.
Notwithstanding 2 CFR 200.1,
program income
means gross income earned by the non-Federal entity that is directly generated by a supported activity or earned as a result of the Federal award during the period of performance. (See 2 CFR 200.1
Definitions
.) Program income includes but is not limited to income from fees for services performed, the use or rental or real or personal property acquired under Federal awards, the sale of commodities or items fabricated under a Federal award, license fees and royalties on patents and copyrights, and principal and interest on loans made with Federal award funds. Interest earned on advances of Federal funds is not program income. Except as otherwise provided in Federal statutes, regulations, or the terms and conditions of the Federal award, program income does not include rebates, credits, discounts, taxes, special assessments, levies, and fines raised by a grantee and subgrantee, and interest earned on any of them.
[79 FR 76049, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 88 FR 12806, Mar. 1, 2023]
§ 1201.102
Exceptions.
DOT Headquarters may grant exceptions to Part 1201 on a case-by-case basis. Such exceptions will be granted only as determined by the Secretary of Transportation.
§ 1201.106
DOT Component implementation.
The specific requirements and responsibilities for grant-making DOT Components are set forth in this part. DOT Components must implement the language in this part unless different provisions are required by Federal statute or are approved by DOT Headquarters. DOT Components making Federal awards to non-Federal entities must implement the language in the Subpart C—Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards of this Part through Subpart F—Audit Requirements of this Part in codified regulations unless different provisions are required by Federal statute or are approved by DOT Headquarters.
§ 1201.107
DOT Headquarters responsibilities.
DOT Headquarters will review DOT Component implementation of this part, and will provide interpretations of policy requirements and assistance to ensure effective and efficient implementation. Any exceptions will be subject to approval by DOT Headquarters. Exceptions will only be made in particular cases where adequate justification is presented.
§ 1201.108
Inquiries.
Inquiries regarding Part 1201 should be addressed to the DOT Component
making the award, cognizant agency for indirect costs, cognizant or oversight agency for audit, or pass-through entities as appropriate. DOT Components will, in turn, direct the inquiry to the Office of Chief Financial Officer, Department of Transportation.
§ 1201.109
Review date.
DOT Headquarters will review this part at least every five years after December 26, 2014.
§ 1201.112
Conflict of interest.
The DOT Component making a financial assistance award must establish conflict of interest policies for Federal awards, including policies from DOT Headquarters. The non-Federal entity must disclose in writing any potential conflict of interest to the DOT Component or pass-through entity in accordance with applicable Federal awarding agency policy.
§ 1201.207
Standard application requirements.
The requirements of 2 CFR 200.207 do not apply to formula grant programs, which do not require applicants to apply for funds on a project basis.
[79 FR 76049, Dec. 19, 2014. Redesignated and amended at 88 FR 12806, Mar. 1, 2023]
§ 1201.313
Equipment.
Notwithstanding 2 CFR 200.313, subrecipients of States shall follow such policies and procedures allowed by the State with respect to the use, management and disposal of equipment acquired under a Federal award.
§ 1201.317
Procurements by States.
Notwithstanding 2 CFR 200.317, subrecipients of States shall follow such policies and procedures allowed by the State when procuring property and services under a Federal award.
§ 1201.328
Financial reporting.
Notwithstanding 2 CFR 200.328, recipients of FHWA and NHTSA financial assistance may use FHWA, NHTSA or State financial reports.
[79 FR 76049, Dec. 19, 2014. Redesignated and amended at 88 FR 12806, Mar. 1, 2023]
PARTS 1202-1299 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. XIII (1-1-25 Edition)
Department of Commerce

# CHAPTER XIII—DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Part
Page
1300-1325
[Reserved]
1326
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension
501
1327
Uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards
503
1328
[Reserved]
1329
Requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance)
503
1330-1399
[Reserved]
PARTS 1300-1325 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1326

# PART 1326—NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
Sec.
1326.10
What does this part do?
1326.20
Does this part apply to me?
1326.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?

# Subpart A—General
1326.137
Who in the Department of Commerce may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
1326.215
Which nonprocurement transactions, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.215, are not covered transactions?
1326.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
1326.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
1326.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
Subparts E-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions
1326.970
Nonprocurement transaction (Department of Commerce supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.970).
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327; E.O. 12549, 3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189; E.O. 12689, 3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235.

# Source:
71 FR 76574, Dec. 21, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1326.10
What does this part do?
This part adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this part, as the Department of Commerce policies and procedures for nonprocurement debarment and suspension. It thereby gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance as supplemented by this part. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189), Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Section 2455, Public Law 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327).
§ 1326.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 (see table at 2 CFR 180.100(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Participant or principal in a “covered transaction” (see subpart B of 2 CFR part 180 and the definition of “nonprocurement transaction” at 2 CFR 180.970, as supplemented by subpart B and § 1326.970 of this part).
(b) Respondent in a Department of Commerce suspension or debarment action.
(c) Department of Commerce debarment or suspension official;
(d) Department of Commerce grants officer, agreements officer, or other official authorized to enter into any type of nonprocurement transaction that is a covered transaction;
§ 1326.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
The Department of Commerce policies and procedures that you must follow are the policies and procedures specified in each applicable section of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as that section is supplemented by the section in this part with the same section number. The contracts that are covered transactions, for example, are specified by section 220 of the OMB guidance (
i.e.
, 2 CFR 180.220) as supplemented by section 220 in this part (
i.e.
, § 1326.220). For any section of OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR 180 that has no corresponding section in this part, Department of Commerce policies
and procedures are those in the OMB guidance.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1326.137
Who in the Department of Commerce may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
Within the Department of Commerce, the Secretary of Commerce or designee has the authority to grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction, as provided in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.135.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 1326.215
Which nonprocurement transactions, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.215, are not covered transactions?
(a) For purposes of the Department of Commerce, a transaction that the Department needs to respond to a national or agency-recognized emergency or disaster includes the Fisherman's Contingency Fund.
(b) For purposes of the Department of Commerce, an incidental benefit that results from ordinary governmental operations includes:
(1) Export Promotion, Trade Information and Counseling, and Trade policy.
(2) Geodetic Surveys and Services (Specialized Services).
(3) Fishery Products Inspection Certification.
(4) Standard Reference Materials.
(5) Calibration, Measurement, and Testing.
(6) Critically Evaluated Data (Standard Reference Data).
(7) Phoenix Data System.
(8) The sale or provision of products, information, and services to the general public.
(c) For purposes of the Department of Commerce, any other transaction if the application of an exclusion to the transaction is prohibited by law includes:
(1) The Administration of the Anti-dumping and Countervailing Duty Statutes.
(2) The export Trading Company Act Certification of Review Program.
(3) Trade Adjustment Assistance Program Certification.
(4) Foreign Trade Zones Act of 1934, as amended.
(5) Statutory Import Program.
§ 1326.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?
In addition to the contracts covered under 2 CFR 180.220(b) of the OMB guidance, this part applies to a subcontract that is awarded by a participant in a procurement transaction covered under 2 CFR 180.220(a), if the amount of the subcontract exceeds or is expected to exceed $25,000. This extends the coverage of the Department of Commerce nonprocurement suspension and debarment requirements to one additional tier of contracts under covered nonprocurement transactions, as permitted under the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.220(c) (see optional lower tier coverage in the figure in the appendix to 2 CFR part 180).

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
§ 1326.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
You as a participant must include a term or condition in lower-tier transactions requiring lower-tier participants to comply with subpart C of the OMB guidance in 2 CFR Part 180, as supplemented by this subpart.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 1326.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
To communicate to a participant the requirements described in 2 CFR 180.435 of the OMB guidance, you must include a term or condition in the transaction that requires the participant's compliance with subpart C of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by subpart C of this part, and requires the participant to include a similar term or condition in lower-tier covered transactions.
Subparts E-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions
§ 1326.970
Nonprocurement transaction (Department of Commerce supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.970).
For purposes of the Department of Commerce, nonprocurement transaction includes the following:
(a) Joint project Agreements under 15 U.S.C. 1525.
(b) Cooperative research and development agreements.
(c) Joint statistical agreements.
(d) Patent licenses under 35 U.S.C. 207.
(e) NTIS joint ventures, 15 U.S.C. 3704b.
Subpart J [Reserved]
Pt. 1327

# PART 1327—UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 38 U.S.C. 501; 2 CFR part 200.

# Source:
79 FR 76050, Dec. 19, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1327.101
Adoption of 2 CFR Part 200.
Under the authority listed above, the Department of Commerce adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Guidance in 2 CFR part 200. Thus, this part gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance and supplements the guidance as needed for the Department.
PART 1328 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1329

# PART 1329—REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE)
Sec.
1329.10
What does this part do?
1329.20
Does this part apply to me?
1329.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
1329.225
Whom in the Department of Commerce does a recipient other than an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
1329.300
Whom in the Department of Commerce does a recipient who is an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Agency Awarding Officials
1329.400
What method do I use as an agency awarding official to obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with the OMB guidance?

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
1329.500
Who in the Department of Commerce determines that a recipient other than an individual violated the requirements of this part?
1329.505
Who in the Department of Commerce determines that a recipient who is an individual violated the requirements of this part?
Subpart F—Definitions [Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 41 U.S.C. 701-707.

# Source:
81 FR 3700, Jan. 22, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1329.10
What does this part do?
This part requires that the award and administration of Department of Commerce grants and cooperative agreements comply with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance implementing the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701-707, as amended, hereafter referred to as “the Act”) that applies to grants. It thereby—
(a) Gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance (subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182) for the Department of Commerce's grants and cooperative agreements; and
(b) Establishes Department of Commerce policies and procedures for compliance with the Act that are the same
as those of other Federal agencies, in conformance with the requirement in 41 U.S.C. 705 for Governmentwide implementing regulations.
§ 1329.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182 (see table at 2 CFR 182.115(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Recipient of a Department of Commerce grant or cooperative agreement; or
(b) Department of Commerce awarding official.
§ 1329.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
(a)
General.
You must follow the policies and procedures specified in applicable sections of the OMB guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(b)
Specific sections of OMB guidance that this part supplements.
In implementing the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 182, this part supplements four sections of the guidance, as shown in the following table. For each of those sections, you must follow the policies and procedures in the OMB guidance, as supplemented by this part.
Section of OMB guidance
Section in this part where supplemented
What the supplementation clarifies
(1) 2 CFR 182.225(a)
§ 1329.225
Whom in the Department of Commerce a recipient other than an individual must notify if an employee is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute in the workplace.
(2) 2 CFR 182.300(b)
§ 1329.300
Whom in the Department of Commerce a recipient who is an individual must notify if he or she is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
(3) 2 CFR 182.500
§ 1329.500
Who in the Department of Commerce is authorized to determine that a recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(4) 2 CFR 182.505
§ 1329.505
Who in the Department of Commerce is authorized to determine that a recipient who is an individual is in violation of the requirements of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(c)
Sections of the OMB guidance that this part does not supplement.
For any section of OMB guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182 that is not listed in paragraph (b) of this section, Department of Commerce policies and procedures are the same as those in the OMB guidance.
Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
§ 1329.225
Whom in the Department of Commerce does a recipient other than an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?
A recipient other than an individual that is required under 2 CFR 182.225(a) to notify Federal agencies about an employee's conviction for a criminal drug offense must notify each Department of Commerce office from which it currently has an award.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
§ 1329.300
Whom in the Department of Commerce does a recipient who is an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?
A recipient who is an individual and is required under 2 CFR 182.300(b) to notify Federal agencies about a conviction for a criminal drug offense must notify each Department of Commerce office from which it currently has an award.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Agency Awarding Officials
§ 1329.400
What method do I use as an agency awarding official to obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with the OMB guidance?
To obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with applicable requirements in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 182, you must include the following term or condition in the award: Drug-free workplace. You as the recipient must
comply with drug-free workplace requirements in Subpart B (or Subpart C, if the recipient is an individual) of 2 CFR part 1329, which adopts the Govemmentwide implementation (2 CFR part 182) of sec. 5152-5158 of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-690, Title V, Subtitle D; 41 U.S.C. 701-707).

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
§ 1329.500
Who in the Department of Commerce determines that a recipient other than an individual violated the requirements of this part?
The Secretary of Commerce or designee determines that a recipient other than an individual violated the requirements of this part.
§ 1329.505
Who in the Department of Commerce determines that a recipient who is an individual violated the requirements of this part?
The Secretary of Commerce or designee determines that a recipient who is an individual violated the requirements of this part.
Subpart F—Definitions [Reserved]
PARTS 1330-1399 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. XIV (1-1-25 Edition)
Department of the Interior

# CHAPTER XIV—DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
Part
Page
1400
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension
509
1401
Requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance)
515
1402
Financial assistance interior regulation, supplementing the uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards
521
1403-1499
[Reserved]
Pt. 1400

# PART 1400—NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
Sec.
1400.10
What does this part do?
1400.20
When does this part apply to me?
1400.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?

# Subpart A—General
1400.137
Who in the Department of the Interior may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
1400.215
Which nonprocurement transactions, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.215, are not covered transactions?
1400.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
1400.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
1400.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?

# Subpart E—System for Award Management Exclusions
1400.526
Who at DOI places exclusions information into SAM?

# Subpart F—General Principles Relating to Suspension and Debarment Actions
1400.600
How does a DOI debarment or suspension action begin?
1400.635
May DOI settle a debarment or suspension action?

# Subpart G—Suspension
1400.751
What does the Suspending and Debarring Official consider in making a decision on whether to continue a suspension following notice issuance?
1400.752
When does a contested suspension action include a fact-finding proceeding?
1400.753
How is the fact-finding proceeding conducted?
1400.756
May a respondent request administrative review of the Suspending and Debarring Official's decision?

# Subpart H—Debarment
1400.861
What procedures does the Suspending and Debarring Official follow to make a decision on whether to impose debarment following notice issuance?
1400.862
When does a contested debarment action include a fact-finding proceeding?
1400.863
How is the fact-finding proceeding conducted?
1400.876
May a respondent request administrative reconsideration of a decision?
1400.881
May a respondent seek award eligibility reinstatement at any time before the end of the period of debarment?

# Subpart I—Definitions
1400.930
Debarring official (Department of the Interior supplement to the definition at 2 CFR 180.930).
1400.970
Nonprocurement transaction (Department of the Interior supplement to the definition at 2 CFR 180.970).
1400.1010
Suspending official (Department of the Interior supplement to the definition at 2 CFR 180.930).
1400.1011
The DOI Debarment Program Director.
1400.1012
The OIG Administrative Remedies Division (ARD).
1400.1013
The administrative record.
1400.1014
Respondent.
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Authority:
Section 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note); 5 U.S.C. 301; E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189); and E.O. 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235).

# Source:
72 FR 33384, June 18, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1400.10
What does this part do?
This part provides procedures for the Department of the Interior nonprocurement suspension and debarment actions.
[81 FR 65855, Sept. 26, 2016]
§ 1400.20
When does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 (see table at 2 CFR 180.100(b)) apply to you if you are—
(a) Participant or principal in a “covered transaction” (see subpart B of 2 CFR part 180 and the definition of
“nonprocurement transaction” at 2 CFR 180.970, as supplemented by subpart B and § 1400.970);
(b) Respondent in a Department of the Interior suspension or debarment action;
(c) Department of the Interior debarment or suspension official, i.e., the Director, Office of Acquisition and Property Management; or
(d) Department of the Interior grants officer, agreements officer, or other official authorized to enter into any type of nonprocurement transaction that is a covered transaction.
§ 1400.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
(a) The Department of the Interior policies and procedures that you must follow are specified in:
(1) Each applicable section of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180; and
(2) The supplement to each section of the OMB guidance that is found in this part under the same section number. (The contracts that are covered transactions, for example, are specified by section 220 of the OMB guidance (i.e., 2 CFR 180.220) as supplemented by section 220 in this part (i.e., Sec. 1400.220)).
(b) For any section of OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 that has no corresponding section in this part, Department of the Interior policies and procedures are those in the OMB guidance.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1400.137
Who in the Department of the Interior may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
Within the Department of the Interior, the Director, Office of Acquisition and Property Management has the authority to grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction, as provided in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.135.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 1400.215
Which nonprocurement transactions, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.215, are not covered transactions?
(a) Transactions entered into pursuant to Public Law 93-638, 88 Stat. 2203.
(b) Under natural resource management programs, permits, licenses, exchanges, and other acquisitions of real property, rights-of-way, and easements.
(c) Transactions concerning mineral patent claims entered into pursuant to 30 U.S.C. 22
et seq.;
and
(d) Water service contracts and repayments entered into pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 485.
§ 1400.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?
Although the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.220(c) allows a Federal agency to do so (also see optional lower tier coverage in the figure in the appendix to 2 CFR part 180), the Department of the Interior does not extend coverage of nonprocurement suspension and debarment requirements beyond first-tier procurement contracts under a covered nonprocurement transaction.

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
§ 1400.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
You as a participant must include a term or condition in lower-tier transactions requiring lower-tier participants to comply with subpart C of the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 1400.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
To communicate to a participant the requirements described in 2 CFR 180.435
of the OMB guidance, you must include a term or condition in the transaction that requires the participant's compliance with subpart C of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by subpart C of this part, and requires the participant to include a similar term or condition in lower-tier covered transactions.

# Subpart E—System for Award Management Exclusions

# Source:
81 FR 65855, Sept. 26, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1400.526
Who at DOI Places Exclusions Information into SAM?
The Office of Acquisition and Property Management (PAM) Debarment Program personnel enter information about persons suspended or debarred by DOI into the GSA Web-based System for Award Management (SAM) within 3 working days of the effective date of the action.

# Subpart F—General Principles Relating to Suspension and Debarment Actions

# Source:
81 FR 65855, Sept. 26, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1400.600
How does a DOI suspension or debarment action begin?
(a) Federal officials, DOI award officials, employees, or other sources will forward information indicating the potential existence of a cause for suspension or debarment, as listed in 2 CFR 180.700 and 180.800, to:
(1) The DOI Office of Inspector General Administrative Remedies Division (OIG ARD); or
(2) The Suspending and Debarring Official.
(b) If forwarded to the OIG ARD, that office will conduct a review to determine if a recommendation for administrative action is warranted. If warranted, the OIG ARD will prepare and submit to the Suspending and Debarring Official an Action Referral Memorandum (ARM) with supporting documentation for the administrative record.
(c) OIG ARD will also identify potential matters for case development and conduct a review to determine if a recommendation for administrative action is warranted. If warranted, the OIG ARD will prepare and submit to the Suspending and Debarring Official an ARM with supporting documentation for the administrative record.
(d) The Suspending and Debarring Official will review the ARM to determine the adequacy of evidence to support and initiate:
(1) A suspension by taking the actions listed in 2 CFR 180.615 and 180.715; or
(2) A debarment by taking the actions listed in 2 CFR 180.615 and 2 CFR 180.805; and
(3) Notification of the respondent on how the respondent may contest the action.
§ 1400.635
May DOI settle a debarment or suspension action?
Under 2 CFR 180.635, the Suspending and Debarring Official may resolve a suspension or debarment action through an administrative agreement if it is in the best interest of the Government at any stage of proceedings, where the respondent agrees to appropriate terms. The specific effect of administrative agreements that incorporate terms regarding award eligibility will vary with the terms of the agreements. Where the Suspending and Debarring Official enters into an administrative agreement, PAM will notify the award officials by:
(a) Entering any appropriate information regarding an exclusion or the termination of an exclusion into the SAM; and
(b) Entering the agreement into the Federal Awardee Performance Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) or its successor system.

# Subpart G—Suspension

# Source:
81 FR 65855, Sept. 26, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1400.751
What does the Suspending and Debarring Official consider in making a decision on whether to continue a suspension following notice issuance?
(a) In the event a respondent does not contest the suspension in writing within the time period provided at 2 CFR 180.715 through 180.725, the suspension will remain in place without further proceedings.
(b) Where a suspension is contested, the Suspending and Debarring Official follows the provisions at 2 CFR 180.730 through 180.755 in reaching a decision on whether to continue or terminate the suspension.
(c) The contested suspension proceeding will include an oral Presentation of Matters in Opposition (PMIO), where one is requested by a respondent. The PMIO is conducted in an informal business meeting format and electronically recorded for inclusion in the administrative record.
(d) Where fact-finding occurs as part of the suspension proceeding, after receiving the findings of fact and the hearing record from the fact-finding official, the Suspending and Debarring Official completes suspension proceedings, including a PMIO if one has been requested and did not occur before the fact-finding proceeding. Following completion of suspension proceedings, the Suspending and Debarring Official issues a written decision under the provisions of 2 CFR 180.750 and 180.755.
§ 1400.752
When does a contested suspension action include a fact-finding proceeding?
(a) Fact-finding to resolve genuine disputes over facts material to the suspension occurs where the conditions listed in 2 CFR 180.735(b) are satisfied.
(b) The fact-finding official for DOI suspension proceedings is the DOI Debarment Program Director, unless the Suspending and Debarring Official designates another DOI official to serve as the fact-finding official.
§ 1400.753
How is the fact-finding proceeding conducted?
(a) The fact-finding proceeding is conducted in accordance with PAM's suspension and debarment program fact-finding procedures, a copy of which is provided to the respondent.
(b) The fact-finding proceeding is undertaken in accordance with 2 CFR 180.745.
(1) The reporters' fees and other direct costs associated with the fact-finding proceeding are borne by the bureau(s) or office(s) initiating the suspension action, except in the case of actions initiated by the OIG ARD.
(2) For actions initiated by the OIG ARD, the costs are borne by bureau(s) and/or office(s) out of which the matter arose.
(3) A transcribed record transcript of the fact-finding proceedings is available to the respondent as provided at 2 CFR 180.745(b).
(c) The fact-finding official provides findings of fact and the hearing record to the Suspending and Debarring Official. The fact-finding official files the original copy of the transcribed record of the fact-finding proceedings transcript with the administrative record.
§ 1400.756
May a respondent request administrative review of the Suspending and Debarring Official's decision?
A respondent may seek administrative reconsideration of the Suspending and Debarring Official's decision by following the procedures in this section.
(a) Within 30 days of receiving the decision, the respondent may ask the Suspending and Debarring Official to reconsider the decision for clear and material errors of fact or law that would change the outcome of the matter. The respondent bears the burden of demonstrating the existence of the asserted clear and material errors of fact or law.
(b) A respondent's request for reconsideration must be submitted in writing to the Suspending and Debarring Official and include:
(1) The specific findings of fact and conclusions of law believed to be in error; and
(2) The reasons or legal basis for the respondent's position.
(c) The Suspending and Debarring Official may, in the exercise of discretion, stay the suspension pending reconsideration. The Suspending and Debarring Official will:
(1) Notify the respondent in writing of the decision on whether to reconsider the decision; and
(2) If reconsideration occurs, notify the respondent in writing of the results of the reconsideration.

# Subpart H—Debarment

# Source:
81 FR 65855, Sept. 26, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1400.861
What procedures does the Suspending and Debarring Official follow to make a decision on whether to impose debarment following notice issuance?
(a) In the event a respondent does not contest the proposed debarment in writing within the time period provided at 2 CFR 180.815 through 180.825, the debarment as proposed in the notice will be imposed without further proceedings.
(b) Where a proposed debarment is contested, the Suspending and Debarring Official will follow the provisions at 2 CFR 180.830 through 180.870 in reaching a decision on whether to impose a period of debarment.
(c) The administrative record will include an oral PMIO, in those actions where the respondent requests one. The PMIO is conducted in an informal business meeting format and electronically recorded for the record.
(d) Where fact-finding occurs as part of the proposed debarment proceeding, after receiving the findings of fact and the hearing record from the fact-finding official, the Suspending and Debarring Official completes debarment proceedings, including a PMIO if one has been requested and did not occur before the fact-finding proceeding. Following completion of proposed debarment proceedings, the Suspending and Debarring Official issues a written decision under the provisions of 2 CFR 180.870.
§ 1400.862
When does a contested proposed debarment action include a fact-finding proceeding?
Fact-finding to resolve genuine disputes over facts material to the proposed debarment occurs where the conditions at 2 CFR 180.830(b) are satisfied.
§ 1400.863
How is the fact-finding proceeding conducted?
(a) The fact-finding proceeding is conducted in accordance with PAM's suspension and debarment program fact-finding procedures, a copy of which is provided to the respondent.
(b) The fact-finding official for DOI debarment proceedings is the DOI Debarment Program Director, unless the Suspending and Debarring Official designates another DOI official to serve as the fact-finding official.
(c) The fact-finding proceeding is undertaken in accordance with 2 CFR 180.840.
(1) The reporters' fees and other direct costs associated with the fact-finding proceeding are borne by the bureau(s) or office(s) initiating the debarment action, except in the case of actions initiated by the OIG.
(2) For actions initiated by the OIG, the costs are borne by the bureau(s) and/or office(s) out of which the matter arose.
(3) A transcribed record of the fact-finding proceedings is available to the respondent as provided at 2 CFR 180.840(b).
(d) The fact-finding official provides written findings of fact and the hearing record to the Suspending and Debarring Official. The fact-finding official files the original copy of the transcribed record of the fact-finding proceedings with the administrative record.
§ 1400.876
May a respondent request administrative reconsideration of a decision?
A respondent may request the Suspending and Debarring Official to review a decision under this part as follows:
(a) Within 30 days of receiving the decision, the respondent may ask the Suspending and Debarring Official to reconsider the decision based on clear and material error(s) of fact or conclusion(s) of law that would change the outcome of the matter. The respondent bears the burden of demonstrating the existence of the asserted clear and material error(s) of fact or conclusion(s) of law.
(b) The respondent's request for reconsideration must be submitted in
writing to the Suspending and Debarring Official and include:
(1) The specific finding(s) of fact and conclusion(s) of law the respondent believes are in error; and
(2) The reasons or legal bases for the respondent's position.
(c) The Suspending and Debarring Official may in the exercise of discretion stay the debarment pending reconsideration. The Suspending and Debarring Official will review the request for reconsideration and:
(1) Notify the respondent in writing whether the Suspending and Debarring Official will reconsider the decision; and
(2) If reconsideration occurs, notify the respondent in writing of the results of the reconsideration.
§ 1400.881
May a respondent seek award eligibility reinstatement at any time before the end of the period of debarment?
In addition to a petition for reconsideration based on a clear error of material fact or law, a respondent may, at any time following imposition of debarment, request the Suspending and Debarring Official to reduce or terminate the period of debarment based upon the factors under the provisions of 2 CFR 180.880.

# Subpart I—Definitions
§ 1400.930
Debarring official (Department of the Interior supplement to the definition at 2 CFR 180.930).
The Debarring Official for the Department of the Interior is the Director, Office of Acquisition and Property Management.
§ 1400.970
Nonprocurement transaction (Department of the Interior supplement to the definition at 2 CFR 180.970).
In addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.970, the Department of the Interior includes the following as nonprocurement transactions:
(a) Federal acquisition of a leasehold interest or any other interest in real property;
(b) Concession contracts;
(c) Disposition of Federal real and personal property and natural resources; and
(d) Any other nonprocurement transactions between the Department and a person.
§ 1400.1010
Suspending official (Department of the Interior supplement to the definition at 2 CFR 180.930).
The Suspending Official for the Department of the Interior is the Director, Office of Acquisition and Property Management.
§ 1400.1011
The DOI Debarment Program Director.
The Debarment Program Director is the individual in PAM who advises the Suspending and Debarring Official on DOI suspension and debarment practices and procedures, manages the suspension and debarment process, and acts as the DOI suspension and debarment program fact-finding official.
[81 FR 65857, Sept. 26, 2016]
§ 1400.1012
The OIG Administrative Remedies Division (ARD).
The OIG ARD prepares and forwards suspension and/or debarment action referral memoranda to the Suspending and Debarring Official and may provide additional assistance, in the course of action proceedings.
[81 FR 65857, Sept. 26, 2016]
§ 1400.1013
The administrative record.
The administrative record for DOI suspension and debarment actions consists of the initiating action referral memorandum and its attached documents; the action notice; contested action scheduling correspondence; written information, arguments and supporting documents submitted by a respondent in opposition to the action notice; written information, arguments and supporting documents submitted by the OIG ARD in response to information provided by a respondent; the electronic recording of the PMIO, where a PMIO is held as part of the proceeding; where fact-finding is conducted, the transcribed record of the fact-finding proceedings, and findings of fact; and the final written determination by the Suspending and Debarring Official on the action; or, alternatively, the administrative agreement
endorsed by the respondent and the Suspending and Debarring Official that resolves an action.
[81 FR 65857, Sept. 26, 2016]
§ 1400.1014
Respondent.
Respondent means a person who is the subject of a DOI suspension or proposed debarment action.
[81 FR 65857, Sept. 26, 2016]
Subpart J [Reserved]
Pt. 1401

# PART 1401—REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE)

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
Sec.
1401.100
What does this part do?
1401.105
Does this part apply to me?
1401.110
What policies and procedures must I follow?
1401.115
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
1401.120
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?

# Subpart B—Definitions
1401.205
Award.
1401.210
Controlled substance.
1401.215
Conviction.
1401.220
Cooperative agreement.
1401.225
Criminal drug statute.
1401.230
Debarment.
1401.235
Drug-free workplace.
1401.240
Employee.
1401.245
Federal agency or agency.
1401.250
Grant.
1401.255
Individual.
1401.260
Recipient.
1401.265
State.
1401.270
Suspension.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
1401.300
What must I do to comply with this part?
1401.305
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
1401.310
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
1401.315
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
1401.320
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
1401.325
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
1401.330
How and when must I identify workplaces?
1401.335
Whom in the DOI does a recipient other than an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?

# Subpart D—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
1401.400
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
1401.401
Whom in the DOI does a recipient who is an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?

# Subpart E—Responsibilities of Department of the Interior Awarding Officials
1401.500
What are my responsibilities as a DOI awarding official?

# Subpart F—Violations of this Part and Consequences
1401.600
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
1401.605
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
1401.610
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
1401.615
Are there any exceptions to those actions?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 6101 note, 7501; 41 U.S.C. 252a; 41 U.S.C. 701-707.

# Source:
75 FR 71008, Nov. 22, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
§ 1401.100
What does this part do?
This part requires that the award and administration of the DOI grants and cooperative agreements comply with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance implementing the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, 41 U.S.C. 701-707, as amended (hereinafter, “the Act”) that applies to grants. It thereby—
(a) Gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance (Subparts A through F of 2 CFR Part 182) for DOI's grants and cooperative agreements; and
(b) Establishes DOI policies and procedures for compliance with the Act that are the same as those of other Federal agencies, in conformance with the requirement in 41 U.S.C. 705 for
government-wide implementing regulations.
§ 1401.105
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182 apply if you are—
(a) A recipient of an assistance award from the Department of the Interior; or
(b) The Department of the Interior awarding official.
The following table (will be incorporated into 2 CFR part 182) shows the subparts that apply to you:
If you are
See
subparts
(1) A recipient who is not an individual
A, C and F.
(2) A recipient who is an individual
A, D and F.
(3) A Department of the Interior awarding official
A, E and F.
§ 1401.110
What policies and procedures must I follow?
(a)
General.
You must follow the policies and procedures specified in applicable sections of the OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(b) In implementing OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 182, this part supplements four sections of the guidance, as shown in the following table. For each of those sections, you must follow the policies and procedures set forth in the OMB guidance, as supplemented by this part.
Section of OMB guidance
Section in this part where
supplemented
What the supplementation clarifies
(1) 2 CFR 182.225(a)
§ 1401.335
Whom in the DOI a recipient other than an individual must notify if an employee is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute in the workplace.
(2) 2 CFR 182.300(b)
§ 1401.401
Whom in the DOI a recipient who is an individual must notify if he or she is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
(3) 2 CFR 182.500
§ 1401.600
Who in the DOI is authorized to determine that a recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of 2 CFR Part 182, as implemented by this part.
(4) 2 CFR 182.505
§ 1401.605
Who in the DOI is authorized to determine that a recipient who is an individual is in violation of the requirements of 2 CFR Part 182, as implemented by this part.
(c)
Sections of the OMB guidance that this part does not supplement.
For any section of OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR Part 182 that is not listed in paragraph (b) of this section, DOI policies and procedures are the same as those in the OMB guidance.
§ 1401.115
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
This part does not apply to any award if the Director, Office of Acquisition and Property Management (PAM), determines that the application of this part would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the laws or regulations of a foreign government.
§ 1401.120
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?
It will affect future contract awards indirectly if you are debarred or suspended for a violation of the requirements of this part, as described in § 1401.610(c). However, this part does not directly apply to procurement contracts. The portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 that applies to Federal procurement contracts is carried out through the Federal Acquisition Regulation in 48 CFR part 23, subpart 23.5.

# Subpart B—Definitions
§ 1401.205
Award.
Award
means an award of financial assistance by DOI or other Federal agency directly to a recipient.
(a) The term award includes:
(1) A Federal grant or cooperative agreement, in the form of money or property in lieu of money.
(2) A block grant or a grant in an entitlement program, whether or not the
grant is exempted from coverage under the Departmental rules at 43 CFR part 12, subpart C, “Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments.”
(b) The term award does not include:
(1) Technical assistance that provides services instead of money.
(2) Loans.
(3) Loan guarantees.
(4) Interest subsidies.
(5) Insurance.
(6) Direct appropriations.
(7) Veterans' benefits to individuals (
i.e.,
any benefit to veterans, their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the Armed Forces of the United States).
§ 1401.210
Controlled substance.
Controlled substance
means any controlled substance identified in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 812, and as further defined by regulations at 21 CFR 1308.11 through 1308.15.
§ 1401.215
Conviction.
Conviction
means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes.
§ 1401.220
Cooperative agreement.
Cooperative agreement
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used to enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant (
see
definition of grant in section 1401.250), except that substantial involvement is expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award. The term does not include cooperative research and development agreements as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a.
§ 1401.225
Criminal drug statute.
Criminal drug statute
means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use, or possession of any controlled substance.
§ 1401.230
Debarment.
Debarment
means an action taken by a Federal agency to prohibit a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered non-procurement transactions. A recipient so prohibited is debarred, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and 2 CFR part 180.
§ 1401.235
Drug-free workplace.
Drug-free workplace
means a site for the performance of work done in connection with a specific award at which employees of the recipient are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance.
§ 1401.240
Employee.
(a)
Employee
means the employee of a recipient directly engaged in the performance of work under the award, including—
(1) All direct charge employees;
(2) All indirect charge employees, unless their impact or involvement in the performance of work under the award is insignificant to the performance of the award; and
(3) Temporary personnel and consultants who are directly engaged in the performance of work under the award and who are on the recipient's payroll.
(b) This definition does not include workers not on the payroll of the recipient (
e.g.,
volunteers, even if used to meet a matching requirement; consultants or independent contractors not on the payroll; or employees of sub-recipients or subcontractors in covered workplaces).
§ 1401.245
Federal agency or agency.
Federal agency
or
agency
means any United States executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, any other establishment in the executive branch (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency.
§ 1401.250
Grant.
Grant
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a relationship whereby—
(a) The principal purpose of which is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States, rather than to acquire property or services for the Federal Government's direct benefit or use; and
(b) In which substantial involvement is not expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award.
§ 1401.255
Individual.
Individual
means a natural person.
§ 1401.260
Recipient.
Recipient
means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government (except a Federal agency) or legal entity, however organized, that receives an award directly from a Federal agency.
§ 1401.265
State.
State
means any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.
§ 1401.270
Suspension.
Suspension
means an action taken by a Federal agency that immediately prohibits a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered non-procurement transactions for a temporary period, pending completion of an investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A recipient so prohibited is suspended, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and 2 CFR part 180. Suspension of a recipient is a distinct and separate action from suspension of an award or suspension of payments under an award.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
§ 1401.300
What must I do to comply with this part?
There are two general requirements if you are a recipient other than an individual.
(a) First, you must make a good faith effort, on a continuing basis, to maintain a drug-free workplace. You must agree to do so as a condition for receiving any award covered by this part. The specific measures that you must take in this regard are described in more detail in subsequent sections of this subpart. Briefly, those measures are to—
(1) Publish a drug-free workplace statement and establish a drug-free awareness program for your employees; and
(2) Take actions concerning employees who are convicted of violating drug statutes in the workplace.
(b) Second, you must identify all known workplaces under your Federal awards.
§ 1401.305
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
You must publish a statement that—
(a) Tells your employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in your workplace;
(b) Specifies the actions that you will take against employees for violating that prohibition; and
(c) Lets each employee know that, as a condition of employment under any award, he or she:
(1) Will abide by the terms of the statement; and
(2) Must notify you in writing if he or she is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace and must do so no more than five calendar days after the conviction.
§ 1401.310
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
You must require that a copy of the statement described in § 1401.305 be given to each employee who will be engaged in the performance of any Federal award.
§ 1401.315
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
You must establish an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform employees about—
(a) The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
(b) Your policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
(c) Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and
(d) The penalties that you may impose upon them for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace.
§ 1401.320
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
If you are a new recipient that does not already have a policy statement as described in § 1401.305 and an ongoing awareness program as described in § 1401.315, you must publish the statement and establish the program by the time given in the following table:
If . . .
then you . . .
(a) The performance period of the award is less than 30 days
must have the policy statement and program in place as soon as possible, but before the date on which performance is expected to be completed.
(b) The performance period of the award is 30 days or more
must have the policy statement and program in place within 30 days after award.
(c) You believe there are extraordinary circumstances that will require more than 30 days for you to publish the policy statement and establish the awareness program
may ask the Department of the Interior awarding official to give you more time to do so. The amount of additional time, if any, to be given is at the discretion of the awarding official.
§ 1401.325
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
There are two actions you must take if an employee is convicted of a drug violation in the workplace:
(a) First, you must notify Federal agencies if an employee who is engaged in the performance of an award informs you about a conviction, as required by § 1401.305(c)(2), or you otherwise learn of the conviction. Your notification to the Federal agencies must—
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Include the employee's position title;
(3) Include the identification number(s) of each affected award;
(4) Be sent within ten calendar days after you learn of the conviction; and
(5) Be sent to every Federal agency on whose award the convicted employee was working. It must be sent to every awarding official or his or her official designee, unless the Federal agency has specified a central point for the receipt of the notices.
(b) Second, within 30 calendar days of learning about an employee's conviction, you must either—
(1) Take appropriate personnel action against the employee, up to and including termination, consistent with the requirements of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. 794, as amended; or
(2) Require the employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for these purposes by a Federal, State or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.
§ 1401.330
How and when must I identify workplaces?
(a) You must identify all known workplaces under each DOI award. A failure to do so is a violation of your drug-free workplace requirements. You may identify the workplaces—
(1) To the DOI official that is making the award, either at the time of application or upon award; or
(2) In documents that you keep on file in your offices during the performance of the award, in which case you must make the information available for inspection upon request by DOI officials or their designated representatives.
(b) Your workplace identification for an award must include the actual address of buildings (or parts of buildings) or other sites where work under
the award takes place. Categorical descriptions may be used (
e.g.,
all vehicles of a mass transit authority or State highway department while in operation, State employees in each local unemployment office, performers in concert halls or radio studios).
(c) If you identified workplaces to the DOI awarding official at the time of application or award, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and any workplace that you identified changes during the performance of the award, you must inform the DOI awarding official.
§ 1401.335
Whom in the DOI does a recipient other than an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?
The DOI is not designating a central location for the receipt of these reports. Therefore you shall provide this report to every grant officer, or other designee within a bureau or office of the Department on whose grant activity the convicted employee was working.

# Subpart D—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
§ 1401.400
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
As a condition of receiving a DOI award, if you are an individual recipient, you must agree that—
(a) You will not engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance in conducting any activity related to the award; and
(b) If you are convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity, you will report the conviction:
(1) In writing.
(2) Within 10 calendar days of the conviction.
(3) To the Department of the Interior awarding official or other designee for each award that you currently have, unless § 1401.401 or the award document designates a central point for the receipt of the notices. When notice is made to a central point, it must include the identification number(s) of each affected award.
§ 1401.401
Whom in the DOI does a recipient who is an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?
The DOI is not designating a central location for the receipt of these reports. Therefore you shall provide this report to every grant officer, or other designee within a bureau or office of the Department on whose grant activity the convicted employee was working.

# Subpart E—Responsibilities of Department of Interior Awarding Officials
§ 1401.500
What are my responsibilities as a DOI awarding official?
To obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with applicable requirements in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 182, you must include the following term or condition in the award:
Drug-free workplace.
You, as the recipient, must comply with drug-free workplace requirements in subpart B (or subpart C, if the recipient is an individual) of part 1401, which adopts the government-wide implementation of 2 CFR part 182; sections 5152-5158 of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, Pub. L. 100-690, Title V, Subtitle D; 41 U.S.C. 701-707.

# Subpart F—Violations of this Part and Consequences
§ 1401.600
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
A recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Director, PAM determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart B of this part; or
(b) The number of convictions of the recipient's employees for violating criminal drug statutes in the workplace is large enough to indicate that the recipient has failed to make a good faith effort to provide a drug-free workplace.
§ 1401.605
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
An individual recipient is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Director, PAM determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart C of this part; or
(b) The recipient is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
§ 1401.610
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
If a recipient is determined to have violated this part, as described in § 1401.600 or § 1401.605, DOI may take one or more of the following actions—
(a) Suspension of payments under the award;
(b) Suspension or termination of the award; and
(c) Suspension or debarment of the recipient under 2 CFR part 180, for a period not to exceed five years.
§ 1401.615
Are there any exceptions to those actions?
The Secretary of the Interior may waive with respect to a particular award, in writing, a suspension of payments under an award, suspension or termination of an award, or suspension or debarment of a recipient if the Secretary of the Interior determines that such a waiver would be in the public interest. This exception authority cannot be delegated to any other official.
Pt. 1402

# PART 1402—FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE INTERIOR REGULATION, SUPPLEMENTING THE UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS

# Subpart A—Definitions
Sec.
1402.1
Definitions.
1402.2
Employment.
1402.3
Financial Assistance Officer.
1402.4
Foreign entity.
1402.5
Non-Federal entity.
1402.6
Real property.

# Subpart B—General Provisions
1402.100
Purpose.
1402.101
To whom does this part apply?
1402.102
Are there any exceptions to this part?
1402.103
What other policies or procedures must non-Federal entities follow?
1402.104-1402.111
[Reserved]
1402.112
What are the conflict of interest policies?
1402.113
What are the mandatory disclosure requirements?
1402.114-1402.203
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards
1402.204
What are the merit review requirements for competitive awards?
1402.205
[Reserved]
1402.206
What are the FAIR requirements for domestic for-profit entities?
1402.207
What specific conditions apply?
1402.208-1402.299
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Post Federal Award Requirements
1402.300
What are the statutory and national policy requirements?
1402.301-1402.314
[Reserved]
1402.315
What are the requirements for the availability of data?
1402.316-1402.328
[Reserved]
1402.329
What are the requirements for land acquired under an award?
1402.330-1402.413
[Reserved]
1402.414
What are the negotiated indirect cost rate deviation policies?
1402.415-1402.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 2 CFR part 200.

# Source:
84 FR 45635, Aug. 30, 2019, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions
§ 1402.1
Definitions.
The definitions in this subpart are for terms used in this part. For terms used in this part that are not defined, the definitions in 2 CFR part 200 apply. Different definitions may be found in Federal statutes or regulations that apply more specifically to particular programs or activities.
§ 1402.2
Employment.
Employment
includes any form of non-Federal employment or business relationship involving the provision of personal services by the employee, whether to be undertaken at the same time as, or subsequent to Federal employment. It includes but is not limited to personal services as an officer, director, employee, agent, attorney, consultant, contractor, general partner, or trustee of the other organization.
§ 1402.3
Financial Assistance Officer.
Financial Assistance Officer
means a person with the authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate financial assistance awards (including grants and cooperative agreements); and make related determinations and findings.
§ 1402.4
Foreign entity.
Foreign entity
means both “foreign public entity” and “foreign organization,” as defined in 2 CFR 200.1.
[84 FR 45635, Aug. 30, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 57531, Oct. 18, 2021]
§ 1402.5
Non-Federal entity.
Non-Federal entity
means a State, local government, Indian tribe, institution of higher education (IHE), for-profit entity, or nonprofit organization that carries out a Federal award as a recipient or subrecipient.
§ 1402.6
Real property.
Real property
has the same meaning as set forth in 2 CFR 200.1, except that the definition in this section also applies to legal ownership interests in land such as easements.
[84 FR 45635, Aug. 30, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 57531, Oct. 18, 2021]

# Subpart B—General Provisions
§ 1402.100
Purpose.
(a) The Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards set forth in 2 CFR part 200 apply to the Department of the Interior. This part adopts, as the Department of the Interior (DOI) policies and procedures, the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB) Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements set forth in 2 CFR part 200. The Uniform Guidance applies in full except as stated in this part.
(b) This part establishes DOI financial assistance regulations that implement or supplement the OMB's Uniform Guidance. It is designed to ensure that financial assistance is administered in full compliance with applicable law, regulation, policy, and best practices to ensure the American people get the most value from the funds DOI awards on financial assistance. For supplemental guidance, DOI has adopted section numbering that corresponds to related OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 200.
(c) This part extends 2 CFR part 200, subparts A through E, policies and procedures to foreign public entities and foreign organizations as allowed by 2 CFR 200.101, except as indicated throughout this part.
§ 1402.101
To whom does this part apply?
(a) This part applies to all DOI grant-making activities and to any non-Federal entity that applies for, receives, operates, or expends funds from a DOI Federal award after October 29, 2019, unless otherwise authorized by Federal statute.
(b) This part applies to foreign entity applicants and recipients, except where the DOI office or bureau determines that the application of this part would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the statutes or regulations of a foreign government (see § 1402.102).
(1) Foreign entities are subject to the definitions and requirements in 2 CFR part 200, subparts A through E, and as supplemented by this part. In addition to the general requirements in 2 CFR part 200, foreign entities must follow the special considerations and requirements for different classes of recipients in subparts A through E as follows, unless otherwise instructed in this part:
(i) Foreign public entities are to follow those for States, with the exception of the State payment procedures
in 2 CFR 200.305(a). Foreign public entities must follow the payment procedures for non-Federal entities other than States;
(ii) Foreign nonprofit organizations are to follow those for nonprofits; and
(iii) Foreign higher education institutions are to follow those for Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs).
(2) [Reserved]
§ 1402.102
Are there any exceptions to this part?
(a) Awards made in accordance with the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-638, 88 Stat. 2204), as amended, are governed by 25 CFR parts 900 and 1000, and by 2 CFR part 200, subparts E and F.
(b) Exceptions for individual foreign entities to the requirements in this part may be authorized by the Director, Office of Grants Management. Such exceptions must be made in accordance with written bureau or office policy and procedures.
(1) Foreign entities must request any exception to a requirement established in this part in writing. Such requests must be submitted to the funding bureau or office by an authorized official of the foreign entity, and must provide sufficient pertinent background information, including:
(i) Identification of the requirement under this part that is inconsistent with an in-country statute or regulation to which the foreign entity is subject;
(ii) A complete description of the in-country statute or regulation, including a description of how it prohibits or otherwise limits the foreign entity's ability to comply with the identified requirement under this part; and
(iii) Identification of the entity's name, DOI award(s) affected, and point of contact for the request.
(2) The Director, Office of Grants Management may approve exceptions for individual foreign entities to the requirements of this part only when it has been determined that the requirement to be waived is inconsistent with either the international obligations of the United States or the statutes or regulations of a foreign government. Bureaus and offices will communicate exception request decisions to the requesting entity in writing.
(3) Submissions by public international organization submissions of any assurances, certifications or representations required for and related to a Federal award do not constitute a waiver of immunities provided under the International Organizations Immunities Act (22 U.S.C. 288-288f).
(4) Foreign entities are not subject to the following requirements in 2 CFR part 200:
(i) Foreign entities may be subject to other applicable international or in-country alternatives to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), such as the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). See 2 CFR 200.403, Factors affecting allowability of costs;
(ii) 2 CFR 200.321, Contracting with small and minority businesses, women's business enterprises, and labor surplus area firms; and
(iii) Section 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act. See 2 CFR 200.322, Procurement of recovered materials.
§ 1402.103
What other policies or procedures must non-Federal entities follow?
Non-Federal entities must follow bureau or office policies and procedures as communicated in notices of funding opportunity (NOFOs) and award terms and conditions. In the event such policies or procedures conflict with 2 CFR part 200 or this part, 2 CFR part 200 or this part will supersede, unless otherwise authorized by Federal statute.
§§ 1402.104-1402.111
[Reserved]
§ 1402.112
What are the conflict of interest policies?
This section shall apply to all non-Federal entities. NOFOs and financial assistance awards must include the full text of the conflict of interest provisions in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(a)
Applicability.
(1) This section intends to ensure that non-Federal entities and their employees take appropriate steps to avoid conflicts of interest in their responsibilities under or with respect to Federal financial assistance agreements.
(2) In the procurement of supplies, equipment, construction, and services by recipients and by subrecipients, the conflict of interest provisions in 2 CFR 200.318 apply.
(b)
Notification.
(1) Non-Federal entities, including applicants for financial assistance awards, must disclose in writing any conflict of interest to the DOI awarding agency or pass-through entity in accordance with 2 CFR 200.112.
(2) Recipients must establish internal controls that include, at a minimum, procedures to identify, disclose, and mitigate or eliminate identified conflicts of interest. The recipient is responsible for notifying the Financial Assistance Officer in writing of any conflicts of interest that may arise during the life of the award, including those that have been reported by subrecipients.
(c)
Restrictions on lobbying.
Non-Federal entities are strictly prohibited from using funds under a grant or cooperative agreement for lobbying activities and must provide the required certifications and disclosures pursuant to 43 CFR part 18 and 31 U.S.C. 1352.
(d)
Review procedures.
The Financial Assistance Officer will examine each conflict of interest disclosure on the basis of its particular facts and the nature of the proposed grant or cooperative agreement, and will determine whether a significant potential conflict exists and, if it does, develop an appropriate means for resolving it.
(e)
Enforcement.
Failure to resolve conflicts of interest in a manner that satisfies the government may be cause for termination of the award. Failure to make required disclosures may result in any of the remedies described in 2 CFR 200.339, Remedies for noncompliance, including suspension or debarment (see also 2 CFR part 180).
[84 FR 45635, Aug. 30, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 57531, Oct. 18, 2021]
§ 1402.113
What are the mandatory disclosure requirements?
In addition to the disclosures required under 2 CFR 200.112 and 200.113, non-Federal entities, including applicants for all Federal awards, must disclose in writing any potential or actual conflict of interest to the DOI awarding agency or pass-through entity. Non-Federal entities and applicants must also disclose any outstanding unresolved matters with the Government Accountability Office or an Office of Inspector General when submitting a proposal and through the life of the award as needed. Unresolved items are those items that do not have an approved (by the awarding agency) corrective action plan in place and remain open.
§§ 1402.114-1402.203
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards
§ 1402.204
What are the merit review requirements for competitive awards?
The requirements in this section apply to competitive grants and cooperative agreements unless otherwise authorized by Federal statute. Merit review procedures must be described or incorporated by reference in NOFOs (see 2 CFR part 200, appendix I, and 2 CFR 200.203). Pre-award considerations for both discretionary competitive and noncompetitive awards shall take into account the alignment of the award's purpose, goals, and measurement with the current DOI Government Performance and Results Act Strategic Plan including, the mission statement, vision, values, goals, objectives, strategies, and performance metrics therein, unless otherwise prohibited by statute.
(a)
Competition in grant and cooperative agreement awards.
Competition is expected in awarding discretionary funds, unless otherwise directed by Congress. When grants and cooperative agreements are awarded competitively, DOI requires that the competitive process be fair and impartial, that all applicants be evaluated only on the criteria stated in the announcement, and that no applicant receive an unfair competitive advantage. All competitive funding announcements, and all modifications/amendments to those announcements, must be posted on
Grants.gov
(
www.grants.gov
).
(b)
Independent objective evaluation of financial assistance applications and proposals.
Bureaus and offices must conduct reviews of applications submitted in response to the announcement and for selecting applicants for award following established merit review procedures. Bureaus and offices must conduct comprehensive, impartial, and objective review of applications based on the criteria contained in the announcement by individuals who have no conflicts of interest with respect to the competing proposal/applications or applicants. Bureaus and offices must ensure reviewers are qualified, applications are scored on the basis of announced criteria, consideration is given to the level of applicant risk and past performance, applications are ranked, and funding determinations are made.
(c)
Evaluation and Selection Plan for notice of funding opportunities.
Bureaus and offices must develop an Evaluation and Selection Plan in concert with the notice of funding opportunity to ensure consistency, and to outline and document the selection process. The Evaluation and Selection Plan should be finalized prior to the release of the notice of funding opportunity. An Evaluation and Selection Plan is comprised of five basic elements:
(1) Merit review factors and sub-factors;
(2) A rating system (
e.g.,
adjectival, color coding, numerical, or ordinal);
(3) Evaluation standards or descriptions that explain the basis for assignment of the various rating system grades/scores;
(4) Program policy factors; and
(5) The basis for selection.
(d)
Basic review standards.
Bureaus and offices must initially screen applications/proposals to ensure that they meet the standards in paragraphs (e) through (g) of this section before they are subjected to a detailed evaluation utilizing a merit review process specified in paragraph (h) of this section. The review system should include three phases: Initial Screening, Threshold Screening, and a Merit Review Evaluation Screening. Bureaus and offices may remove an application from funding consideration if it does not pass the basic eligibility screening per paragraphs (e) through (g) of this section.
(e)
Completeness.
Bureaus and offices may return applications/proposals that are incomplete or otherwise fail to meet the requirements of the
Grants.gov
announcement to the applicant to be corrected, modified, or supplemented, or may reject the application/proposal outright. Until the application/proposal meets the substantive requirements of the announcement and this part, it shall not be given detailed evaluation. Bureaus and offices may use discretion to determine the length of time for applicants to resolve application deficiencies.
(f)
Timeliness.
Bureaus and offices must consider the timeliness of the application submission. Applications that are submitted beyond the announced deadline date must be removed from the review process.
(g)
Threshold Screening.
Bureaus and offices are responsible for screening applications and proposals for the adequacy of the budget and compliance with statutory and other requirements. The SF-424 and budget information (SF-424A, SF-424C, or OMB-approved alternate budget data collection) must be reviewed according to Department of the Interior policy.
(h)
Merit Review Evaluation Screening.
This is the final review stage where the technical merit of the application/proposal is reviewed. In the absence of a program rule or statutory requirement, program officials shall develop criteria that include all aspects of technical merit. Bureaus and offices shall develop criteria that are conceptually independent of each other, but all-encompassing when taken together. While criteria will vary, the basic criteria shall focus reviewers' attention on the project's underlying merit (
i.e.,
significance, approach, and feasibility). The criteria shall focus not only on the technical details of the proposed project but also on the broader importance or potential impact of the project. The criteria shall be easily understood.
(i)
Risk assessments.
Bureaus and offices must also consider risk thresholds during application/proposal review process. Elements to be considered may
include organization; single audit submissions, past performance; availability of necessary resources, equipment, or facilities; financial strength and management capabilities; and procurement procedures; or procedures for selecting and monitoring subrecipients or sub-vendors, if applicable. For all non-Federal entities that receive an award, the Financial Assistance Officer must document the risk analysis.
(j)
Requirements for proposal evaluators.
Upon receipt of a Memorandum of Appointment, each proposal evaluator and advisor must sign and return a Conflict of Interest Certificate to the Financial Assistance Officer. If an actual or potential conflict of interest exists, the appointee may not evaluate or provide advice on a potential applicant's proposal until the conflict has been resolved or mitigated. Further, each proposal evaluator or advisor must agree to comply with any notice or limitation placed on the application. Upon completion of the review, the proposal evaluator or advisor shall return or destroy all copies of the application and accompanying proposals (or abstracts) to DOI; and unless authorized by the Financial Assistance Officer or agency designee, the reviewer shall not contact the non-Federal entity concerning any aspect of the application.
§ 1402.205
[Reserved]
§ 1402.206
What are the FAIR requirements for domestic for-profit entities?
(a)
Requirements for domestic for-profit entities.
(1) Section 1402.207(a) contains standard award terms and conditions that always apply to for-profit entities and § 1402.207(b) contains terms that apply to sub-awards or contracts with for-profit entities over the simplified acquisition threshold. Bureaus and offices must incorporate into awards to domestic for-profit organizations the award terms and conditions that always apply, either directly or by reference.
(2) Bureaus and offices may apply the administrative guidelines in subparts A through D of 2 CFR part 200, the cost principles at 48 CFR part 31, subpart 31.2, and the procedures for negotiating indirect costs (detailed in § 1402.414) to domestic for-profit entities.
(3) Depending on the nature of a particular program, offices and bureaus may additionally develop program-specific administrative guidelines for domestic for-profits based on the requirements in 2 CFR part 200, subparts A through D, but may not apply more restrictive requirements than the requirements in 2 CFR part 200, subparts A through D, unless approved by OMB through a request to the Director, Office of Grants Management.
(b)
Requirements for award terms and conditions.
Bureau and office award terms and conditions must be managed in accordance with the requirements in 2 CFR 200.211, Information contained in a Federal award.
[84 FR 45635, Aug. 30, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 57531, Oct. 18, 2021]
§ 1402.207
What specific conditions apply?
(a) The following financial assistance award terms and conditions always apply to domestic for-profit entities:
(1) 2 CFR part 25, Universal Identifier and System for Award Management.
(2) 2 CFR part 170, Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation Information.
(3) 2 CFR part 175, Award Term for Trafficking in Persons.
(4) 2 CFR part 1400, government-wide debarment and suspension (non-procurement).
(5) 2 CFR part 1401, Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).
(6) 43 CFR part 18, New Restrictions on Lobbying. Submission of an application also represents the applicant's certification of the statements in 43 CFR part 18, appendix A, Certification Regarding Lobbying.
(7) 41 U.S.C. 4712, Whistleblower Protection for Contractor and Grantee Employees. The requirement in this paragraph (a)(7) applies to all awards issued after July 1, 2013.
(8) 41 U.S.C. 6306, Prohibition on Members of Congress Making Contracts with the Federal Government. No member of or delegate to the United States Congress or Resident Commissioner shall be admitted to any share or part of this award, or to any benefit
that may arise therefrom; this paragraph (a)(8) shall not be construed to extend to an award made to a corporation for the public's general benefit.
(9) Executive Order 13513, Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging while Driving. Recipients are encouraged to adopt and enforce policies that ban text messaging while driving, including conducting initiatives of the type described in section 3(a) of the Executive Order.
(10) 2 CFR part 183, Never Contract With the Enemy.
(11) 2 CFR 200.216, Prohibition on Certain Telecommunication and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment.
(12) All applicable Executive orders.
(b) The following financial assistance award terms and conditions always apply to non-profit and domestic for-profit entities. The recipient shall insert the following clause in all subawards and contracts related to the prime award that are over the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in the Federal Acquisition Regulation:
All awards and related subawards and contracts over the Simplified Acquisition Threshold, and all employees working on applicable awards and related subawards and contracts, are subject to the whistleblower rights and remedies in accordance with the pilot program on award recipient employee whistleblower protections established at 41 U.S.C. 4712 by section 828 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Pub. L. 112-239).
Recipients, their subrecipients and contractors that are awarded contracts over the Simplified Acquisition Threshold related to an applicable award, shall inform their employees, in writing, in the predominant language of the workforce, of the employee whistleblower rights and protections under 41 U.S.C. 4712.
(c) The following award terms and conditions apply to for-profit recipients as specified in 2 CFR 200.101:
(1) Administrative requirements: 2 CFR part 200, subparts A through D.
(2) Cost principles: 48 CFR part 31, subpart 31.2, Contracts with Commercial Organizations.
(3) Indirect cost rate negotiations. For information on indirect cost rate negotiations, contact the Interior Business Center (IBC) Indirect Cost Services Division by telephone at (916) 566-7111 or by email at
ics@ibc.doi.gov.
Visit the IBC Indirect Cost Services Division website at
http://www.doi.gov/ibc/services/Indirect_Cost_Services/index.cfm
for more information.
[84 FR 45635, Aug. 30, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 57531, Oct. 18, 2021]
§§ 1402.208-1402.299
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Post Federal Award Requirements
§ 1402.300
What are the statutory and national policy requirements?
(a) DOI bureaus and offices will communicate to the non-Federal entity all relevant public policy requirements, including those in general appropriations provisions, and incorporate them either directly or by reference in the terms and conditions of the Federal award.
(b) The non-Federal entity is responsible for complying with all requirements of the Federal award. For all Federal awards, this includes the provisions of Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act (FFATA), which includes requirements on executive compensation, and also requirements implementing the FFATA for the non-Federal entity at 2 CFR part 25, financial assistance use of universal identifier and system for award management, and 2 CFR part 170, Reporting Subaward and Executive Compensation Information. See also statutory requirements for whistleblower protections at 10 U.S.C. 2409, 41 U.S.C. 4712, and 10 U.S.C. 2324, 41 U.S.C. 4304 and 4310.
(c) Recipients conducting work outside the United States are responsible for coordinating with appropriate United States and foreign government authorities as necessary to make sure all required licenses, permits, or approvals are obtained before undertaking project activities. DOI does not assume responsibility for recipient compliance with the laws, regulations, policies, or procedures of the foreign country in which the work is conducted.
(d) As required in 54 U.S.C. 307101, World Heritage Convention, prior to the approval of any undertaking outside the United States that may directly and adversely affect a property
that is on the World Heritage List or on the applicable country's equivalent of the National Register of Historic Places, the DOI bureau or office having direct or indirect jurisdiction over the undertaking shall take into account the effect of the undertaking on the property for purposes of avoiding or mitigating any adverse effect.
(e) Foreign entities are responsible for complying with all requirements of the Federal award. For awards to foreign entities, this includes:
(1) 2 CFR part 25, Universal Identifier and System for Award Management, unless the entity meets one or more qualifying conditions and is exempted by the awarding bureau or office as provided for in 2 CFR part 25;
(2) 2 CFR part 170, Reporting Subaward and Executive Compensation Information;
(3) 2 CFR part 175, Award Term for Trafficking in Persons. This term is required in awards to foreign private entities. The term is also required in awards to foreign public entities, if funding could be provided under the award to a foreign private entity as a subrecipient;
(4) 2 CFR part 1400, Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension. Awards to foreign organizations are covered transactions under the DOI nonprocurement debarment and suspension program. Awards to foreign public entities are not covered transactions;
(5) 43 CFR part 18, New Restrictions on Lobbying. Foreign entities shall file the 43 CFR part 18, appendix A, certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each application for Federal assistance. See also 31 U.S.C. 1352, Limitation on use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracting and financial transactions;
(6) 48 CFR 3.909-2(a). Federal award recipients are prohibited from requiring employees or contractors seeking to report fraud, waste, or abuse to sign internal confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting such employees or contractors from lawfully reporting such fraud, waste, or abuse to a designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency authorized to receive such information;
(7) 2 CFR part 183, Never Contract With the Enemy; and
(8) 2 CFR 200.216, Prohibition on Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment.
[84 FR 45635, Aug. 30, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 57531, Oct. 18, 2021]
§§ 1402.301-1402.314
[Reserved]
§ 1402.315
What are the requirements for availability of data?
(a) All data, methodology, factual inputs, models, analyses, technical information, reports, conclusions, valuation products or other scientific assessments in any medium or form, including textual, numerical, graphic, cartographic, narrative, or audiovisual, resulting from a financial assistance agreement is available for use by the Department of the Interior, including being available in a manner that is sufficient for independent verification.
(b) The Federal Government has the right to:
(1) Obtain, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the data, methodology, factual inputs, models, analyses, technical information, reports, conclusions, or other scientific assessments, produced under a Federal award; and
(2) Authorize others to receive, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use such data, methodology, factual inputs, models, analyses, technical information, reports, conclusions, or other scientific assessments, for Federal purposes, including to allow for meaningful third-party evaluation.
(c) Bureaus and offices of the Department of the Interior must include the language in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section in full text in all NOFOs and financial assistance agreements.
§§ 1402.316-1402.328
[Reserved]
§ 1402.329
What are the requirements for land acquired under an award?
(a)
Approval prior to land purchases.
Bureaus and offices must ensure compliance with the prior written approval requirements for land acquisition in 2 CFR 200.439. Whenever a recipient is seeking DOI's approval to use award funds to purchase an interest in real property, the OMB-approved governmentwide data elements for collection
of real property reporting information, as of October 29, 2019, SF-429-B, Request to Acquire, Improve, or Furnish, or approved alternate standardized data collection, must be submitted to the bureau or office. The Financial Assistance Officer is responsible for ensuring that this requirement is met. All aspects of the purchase must be in compliance with applicable laws and regulations relating to purchases of land or interests in land.
(b)
Appraisal requirements for land purchases.
(1) Unless a waiver valuation applies in accordance with 49 CFR 24.102(c), land or interests in land that will be acquired under the award must be appraised in accordance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions, (UASFLA or the “Yellow Book”), developed and promulgated by the Interagency Land Acquisition Conference, 1155 15th Street NW, Suite 1111, Washington, DC 20005, by a real property appraiser licensed or certified by the State or States in which the property is located. The appraisal report shall be reviewed by a qualified review appraiser that meets qualifications established by the DOI Appraisal and Valuation Services Office (AVSO), which is responsible for appraisal and valuation services and policy across the Department. Bureaus and offices shall ensure that funds are not disbursed for purchases of land or interests in land without an appraisal accompanied by a written appraisal review report that complies with standards approved by AVSO. Where appraisals are required to support federally assisted land acquisitions, AVSO has oversight responsibilities for these appraisals, including those purchased through financial assistance actions in the various grant programs within the Department. AVSO will coordinate with grant programs to conduct periodic internal control review of appraisal and appraisal review reports prepared in conjunction with grant applications for land acquisition.
(2) The Director of the Federal Register approves the material referenced in this section for incorporation by reference into this section in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may inspect a copy at the Appraisal and Valuation Services Office within the Department of the Interior located at 1849 C St. NW, Washington, DC 20240, (202) 208-3466, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fedreg.legal@nara.gov
or go to
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
(i) Interagency Land Acquisition Conference, 1155 15th Street NW, Suite 1111, Washington, DC 20005.
(A) Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions, Sixth Edition, 2016.
(B) You may obtain a print copy or interactive electronic version from The Appraisal Foundation at
https://www.appraisalfoundation.org/iMIS/itemDetail?iProductCode=351
Category=PUB
or a read-only version from the U.S. Department of Justice at
https://www.justice.gov/file/408306/download.
(ii) [Reserved]
(c)
Foreign land acquisition.
Land to be acquired under an award that is located outside the United States must be appraised by an independent real property appraiser licensed or certified in the country in which the property is located in accordance with any in-country appraisal standards, if they exist, or with International Valuation Standards, when such appraisals are available and financially feasible. Otherwise, the non-Federal entity must use the most widely accepted business practice for property valuation in the country where the property is located and provide to the awarding DOI bureau or office a detailed explanation of the methodology used to determine value.
(d)
Requirements for recipient reporting on real property purchases.
(1) For all financial assistance actions where real property is acquired under the Federal award, the recipient must submit reports on the status of the real property. Bureaus and offices must ensure recipients receive written notification of those reporting requirements, including reporting frequency/schedule, report content requirements, and submission instructions, at the time of award.
(2) If the interest in the land will be held for less than 15 years, reports
must be submitted annually. If the interest in the land will be held for 15 years or more, then the recipient must submit the first report within one year of the period of performance end date of the award and then, at a minimum, every five years thereafter.
(3) The reports must be submitted to the Financial Assistance Officer within the period of performance of the award. After the end of the period of performance, reports must be submitted to a designated individual. Each bureau must have a process in place to designate specific individuals to receive, and review and accept the report.
(4) Recipients must use the OMB-approved governmentwide data elements for collection of real property reporting information, as of October 29, 2019, the Real Property Status Report Standard Form (SF) 429-A, General Reporting, to report status of land or interests in land under Federal financial assistance awards. Bureaus or offices may request to use an equivalent reporting format. The Director, Office of Grants Management must approve alternate equivalent formats.
(5) Reports must include, at a minimum, sufficient information to demonstrate that all conditions imposed on the land use are being met, and a signed certification to that fact by the recipient of the financial assistance award.
(6) The Financial Assistance Officer must indicate the reporting schedule, including due dates, in the award document. The schedule must conform with the frequency required in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. For awards issued prior to October 29, 2019, the recipient must contact the program to establish due dates for reports going forward. If there is already a reporting schedule in place, then the recipient and the program shall ensure that the schedule is updated to conform with this part prior to the due date of the next scheduled report.
§§ 1402.330-1402.413
[Reserved]
§ 1402.414
What are the negotiated indirect cost rate deviation policies?
(a) This section establishes DOI policies, procedures, and decision making criteria for using an indirect cost rate that differs from the non-Federal entity's negotiated rate or approved rate for DOI awards. These are established in accordance with 2 CFR 200.414(c)(3) or (f).
(b) DOI accepts indirect cost rates that have been reduced or removed voluntarily by the proposed recipient of the award, on an award-specific basis.
(c) For all deviations to the Federal negotiated indirect cost rate, including statutory, regulatory, programmatic, and voluntary, the basis of direct costs against which the indirect cost rate is applied must be:
(1) The same base identified in the recipient's negotiated indirect cost rate agreement, if the recipient has a federally negotiated indirect cost rate agreement; or
(2) The Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC) base, in cases where the recipient does not have a federally negotiated indirect cost rate agreement or, with prior approval of the awarding bureau or office, when the recipient's federally negotiated indirect cost rate agreement base is only a subset of the MTDC (such as salaries and wages) and the use of the MTDC still results in an overall reduction in the total indirect cost recovered. MTDC is the base defined by 2 CFR 200.68, Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC).
(d) In cases where the recipient does not have a federally negotiated indirect cost rate agreement, DOI will not use a modified rate based upon total direct cost or other base not identified in the federally negotiated indirect cost rate agreement or defined within 2 CFR 200.68.
(1)
Indirect cost rate deviation required by statute or regulation.
In accordance with 2 CFR 200.414(c)(1), a Federal agency must use a rate other than the Federal negotiated rate where required by Federal statute or regulation. For such instances within DOI, the official award file must document the specific statute or regulation that required the deviation.
(2)
Indirect cost rate reductions used as cost-share.
Instances where the recipient elects to use a rate lower than the federally negotiated indirect cost rate, and uses the balance of the unrecovered indirect costs to meet a cost-
share or matching requirement required by the program and/or statute, are not considered a deviation from 2 CFR 200.414(c), as the federally negotiated indirect cost rate is being applied under the agreement in order to meet the terms and conditions of the award.
(3)
Programmatic indirect cost rate deviation approval process.
Bureaus and offices with DOI approved deviations in place prior to October 29, 2019 are not required to resubmit those for reconsideration following the procedures in this paragraph (d)(3). The following requirements apply for review, approval, and posting of programmatic indirect cost rate waivers:
(i)
Program qualifications.
Programs that have instituted a program-wide requirement and governance process for deviations from federally negotiated indirect cost rates may qualify for a programmatic deviation approval.
(ii)
Deviation requests.
Deviation requests must be submitted by the responsible senior program manager to the DOI Office of Grants Management. The request for deviation approval must include a description of the program, and the governance process for negotiating and/or communicating to recipients the indirect cost rate requirements under the program. The program must make its governance documentation, rate deviations, and other program information publicly available.
(iii)
Approvals.
Programmatic deviations must be approved, in writing, by the Director, Office of Grants Management. Approved deviations will be made publicly available.
(4)
Voluntary indirect cost rate reduction.
On any single award, an applicant and/or proposed recipient may elect to reduce or eliminate the indirect cost rate applied to costs under that award. The election must be voluntary and cannot be required by the awarding official, NOFO, program, or other non-statutory or non-regulatory requirements. For these award-specific and voluntary reductions, DOI can accept the lower rate provided the notice of award clearly documents the recipient's voluntary election. Once DOI has accepted the lower rate, that rate will apply for the duration of the award.
(5)
Unrecovered indirect costs.
In accordance with 2 CFR 200.405, indirect costs not recovered due to deviations to the federally negotiated rate are not allowable for recovery via any other means.
§§ 1402.415-1402.499
[Reserved]
PARTS 1403-1499 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. XV (1-1-25 Edition)
Environmental Protection Agency

# CHAPTER XV—ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
Part
Page
1500
Uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards
535
1501-1531
[Reserved]
1532
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension
541
1536
Requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance)
549
1537-1599
[Reserved]
Pt. 1500

# PART 1500—UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS

# Subpart A—Acronyms and Definitions
1500.1
Definitions.

# Subpart B—General Provisions
Sec.
1500.2
Adoption of 2 CFR part 200.
1500.3
Applicability.
1500.4
Exceptions.
1500.5
Supersession.

# Subpart C—Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards.
1500.6
Fixed Amount Awards.

# Subpart D—Post Federal Award Requirements.

# Standards for Financial and Program Management
1500.7
Retention requirements for records.
1500.8
Program income.
1500.9
Revision of budget and program plans.

# Procurement Standards
1500.10
General procurement standards.
1500.11
Use of the same architect or engineer during construction.

# Performance and Financial Monitoring and Reporting
1500.12
Quality Assurance.

# Subpart E—Disputes.
1500.13
Purpose and scope of this subpart.
1500.14
Definitions.
1500.15
Submission of Dispute.
1500.16
Notice of receipt of Dispute to Affected Entity.
1500.17
Determination of Dispute.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 7 U.S.C. 136
et seq.,
15 U.S.C. 2601
et seq.,
20 U.S.C. 4011
et seq.,
33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.,
and 1401
et seq.,
42 U.S.C. 241, 242b, 243, 246, 300f
et seq.,
1857
et seq.,
6901
et seq.,
7401
et seq.,
and 9601
et seq.;
2 CFR part 200.

# Source:
79 FR 76050, Dec. 19, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Acronyms and Definitions

# Source:
85 FR 61573, Sept. 30, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1500.1
Definitions.
(a)
Participant support costs.
The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has supplemented 2 CFR 200.1,
Participant support costs,
to provide that allowable participant support costs under EPA assistance agreements include:
(1) Rebates or other subsidies provided to program participants for purchases and installations of commercially available, standard (“off the shelf”) pollution control equipment or low emission vehicles under the Diesel Emission Reduction Act program or programs authorized by EPA appropriation acts and permitted by terms specified in EPA assistance agreements or guidance, when the program participant rather than the recipient owns the equipment.
(2) Subsidies, rebates, and other payments provided to program beneficiaries to encourage participation in statutorily authorized programs to encourage environmental stewardship and enable the public to participate in EPA funded research, pollution abatement, and other projects or programs to the extent permitted by statutes and terms specified in EPA assistance agreements or guidance.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart B—General Provisions
§ 1500.2
Adoption of 2 CFR Part 200.
Under the authority listed above the Environmental Protection Agency adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards to Non-Federal Entities (subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200), as supplemented by this part, as the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) policies and procedures for financial assistance administration. This part satisfies the requirements of 2
CFR 200.110(a) and gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance as supplemented by this part. EPA also has programmatic regulations located in 40 CFR Chapter 1 Subchapter B.
[79 FR 76050, Dec. 19, 2014. Redesignated at 85 FR 61573, Sept. 30, 2020]
§ 1500.3
Applicability.
(a) Uniform administrative requirements and cost principles (subparts A through E of 2 CFR part 200 as supplemented by this part) apply to foreign public entities or foreign organizations, except where EPA determines that the application of this part would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the statutes or regulations of a foreign government.
(b) Requirements for subrecipient monitoring and management at 2 CFR 200.331 through 200.333 do not apply to loan, loan guarantees, interest subsidies and principal forgiveness, purchases of insurance or local government debt or similar transactions with borrowers by recipients of Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) capitalization grants and Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) capitalization grants. Requirements in 2 CFR part 25, Universal Identifier and System for Award Management, 2 CFR part 170, Reporting subaward and executive compensation and internal controls described at 2 CFR 200.303 continue to apply to CWSRF and DWSRF grant recipients and borrowers.
[85 FR 61573, Sept. 30, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 30397, May 19, 2022]
§ 1500.4
Exceptions.
Consistent with 2 CFR 200.102(b):
(a) In the EPA, the Director, Office of Grants and Debarment or designee, is authorized to grant exceptions on a case-by-case basis for non-Federal entities.
(b) The EPA Director or designee is also authorized to approve exceptions, on a class or an individual case basis, to EPA program specific assistance regulations other than those which implement statutory and executive order requirements.
[79 FR 76050, Dec. 19, 2014. Redesignated at 85 FR 61573, Sept. 30, 2020]
§ 1500.5
Supersession.
Effective December 26, 2014, this part supersedes the following regulations under Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations:
(a) 40 CFR part 30, “Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and other Non-profit Organizations.”
(b) 40 CFR part 31, “Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments.”
[79 FR 76050, Dec. 19, 2014. Redesignated at 85 FR 61573, Sept. 30, 2020]

# Subpart C—Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards
§ 1500.6
Fixed Amount Awards.
In the EPA, programs awarding fixed amount awards will do so in accordance with guidance issued from the Office of Grants and Debarment. (See 2 CFR 200.201(b)).
[79 FR 76050, Dec. 19, 2014. Redesignated at 85 FR 61573, Sept. 30, 2020]

# Subpart D—Post Federal Award Requirements.

# Standards for Financial and Program Management
§ 1500.7
Retention requirements for records.
(a) In the EPA, some programs require longer retention requirements for records by statute.
(b) When there is a difference between the retention requirements for records of the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards (2 CFR 200.334) and the applicable statute, the non-federal entity will follow to the retention requirements for records in the statute.
[79 FR 76050, Dec. 19, 2014. Redesignated at 85 FR 61573, Sept. 30, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 30397, May 19, 2022]
§ 1500.8
Program income.
(a)
Governmental revenues.
Permit fees are governmental revenue and not program income. (See 2 CFR 200.307(c)).
(b)
Use of program income.
The default use of program income for EPA awards is addition even if the amount of program income the non-Federal entity generates exceeds the anticipated amount at time of the award of the assistance agreement. Unless the terms of the agreement provide otherwise, recipients may deduct costs incidental to the generation of program income from gross income to determine program income, provided these costs have not been charged to any Federal award. (See 2 CFR 200.307(b)). The program income shall be used for the purposes and under the conditions of the assistance agreement. (See 2 CFR 200.307(e)(2)).
(c)
Brownfields Revolving Loan.
To continue the mission of the Brownfields Revolving Loan fund, recipients may use EPA grant funding prior to using program income funds generated by the revolving loan fund. Recipients may also keep program income at the end of the assistance agreement as long as they use these funds to continue to operate the revolving loan fund or some other brownfield purpose as outlined in their respective closeout agreements.
(d)
Other revolving loan programs.
Recipients of EPA funding for other revolving loan fund programs may use EPA grant funding prior to using program income funds generated by the revolving loan fund. Recipients may also keep program income at the end of the assistance agreement as long as they use these funds to continue to operate the revolving loan fund or some other authorized purpose as outlined in their closeout agreement. This paragraph (d) does not apply to EPA's Clean Water State Revolving Fund and Drinking Water State Revolving Fund programs which are subject to their own regulations.
[85 FR 61574, Sept. 30, 2020]
§ 1500.9
Revision of budget and program plans.
Pre-award Costs.
EPA award recipients may incur allowable project costs 90 calendar days before the Federal awarding agency makes the Federal award. Expenses more than 90 calendar days pre-award require prior approval of EPA. All costs incurred before EPA makes the award are at the recipient's risk. EPA is under no obligation to reimburse such costs if for any reason the recipient does not receive a Federal award or if the Federal award is less than anticipated and inadequate to cover such costs.
[79 FR 76050, Dec. 19, 2014. Redesignated at 85 FR 61573, Sept. 30, 2020]

# Procurement Standards
§ 1500.10
General procurement standards.
(a) EPA will limit its participation in the salary rate (excluding overhead) paid to individual consultants retained by recipients, and their contractors or subcontractors to the maximum daily rate for level 4 of the Executive Schedule unless a greater amount is authorized by law. (These non-Federal entities may, however, pay consultants more than this amount with non-EPA funds.) The limitation in this paragraph (a) applies to consultation services of designated individuals with specialized skills who are paid at a daily or hourly rate. This rate does not include transportation and subsistence costs for travel performed; recipients will pay these in accordance with their normal travel reimbursement practices.
(b) All contracts between recipients and subrecipients and individual consultants are subject to the procurement standards in subpart D of 2 CFR part 200. Contracts or subcontracts with multi-employee firms for consulting services are not affected by the limitation in paragraph (a) of this section provided the contractor or subcontractor rather than the recipient or subrecipient selects, directs and controls individual employees providing consulting services.
(c) Borrowers under EPA revolving loan fund capitalization grant programs are not subject to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[85 FR 61574, Sept. 30, 2020]
§ 1500.11
Use of the same architect or engineer during construction.
(a) If the recipient is satisfied with the qualifications and performance of the architect or engineer who provided any or all of the facilities planning or design services for a waste-water treatment works project and wishes to retain that firm or individual during construction of the project, it may do so without further public notice and evaluation of qualifications, provided:
(1) The recipient received a facilities planning (Step 1) or design grant (Step 2), and selected the architect or engineer in accordance with EPA's procurement regulations in effect when EPA awarded the grant; or
(2) The award official approves noncompetitive procurement under 2 CFR 200.320(c)(4) for reasons other than simply using the same individual or firm that provided facilities planning or design services for the project; or
(3) The recipient attests that:
(i) The initial request for proposals clearly stated the possibility that the firm or individual selected could be awarded a contract for services during construction; and
(ii) The firm or individual was selected for facilities planning or design services in accordance with procedures specified in this section.
(iii) No employee, officer or agent of the recipient, any member of their immediate families, or their partners have financial or other interest in the firm selected for award; and
(iv) None of the recipient's officers, employees or agents solicited or accepted gratuities, favors or anything of monetary value from contractors or other parties to contracts.
(b) However, if the recipient uses the procedures in paragraph (a) of this section to retain an architect or engineer, any Step 3 contracts between the architect or engineer and the grantee must meet all other procurement provisions in 2 CFR 200.317 through 200.327.
[79 FR 76050, Dec. 19, 2014. Redesignated at 85 FR 61573, Sept. 30, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 30397, May 19, 2022]

# Performance and Financial Monitoring and Reporting
§ 1500.12
Quality Assurance.
(a) Quality assurance applies to all assistance agreements that involve environmentally related data operations, including environmental data collection, production or use.
(b) Recipients shall develop a written quality assurance system commensurate with the degree of confidence needed for the environmentally related data operations.
(c) If the recipient complies with EPA's quality policy, the system will be presumed to be in compliance with the quality assurance system requirement. The recipient may also comply with the quality assurance system requirement by complying with American National Standard ASQ/ANSI E4:2014: Quality management systems for environmental information and technology programs.
(d) The recipient shall submit the written quality assurance system for EPA review. Upon EPA's written approval, the recipient shall implement the EPA-approved quality assurance system.
(e) EPA Quality Policy is available at:
https://www.epa.gov/quality.
(f) The standards required in this section are incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.
The material is available for inspection at the Environmental Protection Agency's Headquarters Library, Room 3340, EPA West Building, 1301 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20004, (202) 566-0556. A copy is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html
.
(1) American Society for Quality, 600 North Plankinton Avenue, Milwaukee, WI 53201, 1-800-248-1946,
http://asq.org
.
(i) American National Standard ASQ/ANSI E4:2014: Quality management systems for environmental information
and technology programs—Requirements with guidance for use, approved February 4, 2014.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) [Reserved]
[79 FR 76050, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 61088, Oct. 9, 2015. Redesignated at 85 FR 61573, Sept. 30, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 30397, May 19, 2022]

# Subpart E—Disputes
§ 1500.13
Purpose and scope of this subpart.
(a) This section provides the process for the resolution of pre-award and post-award assistance agreement disputes as described in § 1500.14, except for:
(1) Assistance agreement competition-related disputes which are covered by EPA's Grant Competition Dispute Resolution Procedures; and,
(2) Any appeal process relating to an award official's determination that an entity is not qualified for award that may be developed pursuant to guidance implementing Section 872 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Pub. L. 110-417, as amended).
(b) Pre-award and post-award disagreements between affected entities and EPA related to an assistance agreement should be resolved at the lowest level possible. If an agreement cannot be reached, absent any other applicable statutory or regulatory dispute provisions, affected entities must follow the dispute procedures outlined in this subpart.
(c) Determinations affecting assistance agreements made under certain Agency decision-making processes are not subject to review under the procedures in this subpart or the Agency's procedures for resolving assistance agreement competition-related disputes. These determinations include, but are not limited to:
(1) Decisions on requests for exceptions under § 1500.4;
(2) Bid protest decisions under 2 CFR 200.318(k);
(3) National Environmental Policy Act decisions under 40 CFR part 6;
(4) Policy decisions of the EPA Internal Audit Dispute Resolution Process (formerly known as Audit Resolution Board);
(5) Suspension and Debarment Decisions under 2 CFR parts 180 and 1532;
(6) Decisions to decline to fund non-competitive applications or not to award incremental or supplemental funding based on the availability of funds or agency priorities;
(7) Decisions on requests for reconsideration of specific award conditions under 2 CFR 200.208;
(8) Decisions to deny requests for no-cost extensions under 2 CFR 200.308(e)(2), 40 CFR 35.114(b), and 40 CFR 35.514(b); and
(9) Denials of requests for EPA approval of procurement through noncompetitive proposals under 2 CFR 200.320(c)(4).
[79 FR 76050, Dec. 19, 2014. Redesignated at 85 FR 61573, Sept. 30, 2020; 85 FR 61574, Sept. 30, 2020]
§ 1500.14
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
(a)
Action Official (AO)
is the EPA official who authors the Agency Decision to the Affected Entity regarding a pre-award or post-award matter.
(b)
Affected Entity
is an entity that applies for and/or receives Federal financial assistance from EPA including but not limited to: State and local governments, Indian Tribes, Intertribal Consortia, Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and other Non-profit Organizations, and Individuals.
(c)
Agency Decision
is the agency's initial pre-award or post-award assistance agreement determination that may be disputed in accordance with this subpart. The Agency Decision is sent by the Action Official (AO) to the Affected Entity electronically and informs them of their dispute rights and identifies the Dispute Decision Official (DDO). An Agency Decision based on audit findings serves as EPA's
Management decision
as defined in 2 CFR part 200.1.
(d)
Dispute
is a disagreement by an Affected Entity with a specific Agency Decision submitted to the DDO in accordance with this subpart.
(e)
Dispute Decision Official (DDO)
is the designated agency official responsible for issuing a decision resolving a Dispute.
(1) The DDO for a Headquarters Dispute is the Director of the Grants and Interagency Agreement Management Division in the Office of Grants and Debarment or designee. To provide for a fair and impartial review, the AO for the challenged Agency Decision may not serve as the Headquarters DDO.
(2) The DDO for a Regional Assistance Agreement Dispute is the Regional Administrator or the official designated by the Regional Administrator to issue the written decision resolving the Dispute. To provide for a fair and impartial review, the AO for the challenged Agency Decision may not serve as the Regional DDO.
[79 FR 76050, Dec. 19, 2014. Redesignated at 85 FR 61573, Sept. 30, 2020; 85 FR 61574, Sept. 30, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 30397, May 19, 2022]
§ 1500.15
Submission of Dispute.
An Affected Entity or its authorized representative may dispute an Agency Decision by electronically submitting a Dispute to the DDO identified in the Agency Decision. In order for the DDO to consider the Dispute, it must satisfy the following requirements:
(a)
Timeliness.
The DDO must receive the Dispute no later than 30 calendar days from the date the Agency Decision is electronically sent to the Affected Entity. The DDO will dismiss any Dispute received after the 30-day period unless the DDO grants an extension of time to submit the Dispute. The Affected Entity must submit a written request for extension to the DDO before the expiration of the 30-day period. The DDO may grant a one-time extension of up to 30 calendar days when justified by the situation, which may include the unusual complexity of the Dispute or because of exigent circumstances.
(b)
Method of submission.
The Affected Entity must submit the Dispute electronically via email to the DDO, with a copy to the AO, using the email addresses specified in the Agency Decision within the 30-day period stated in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Contents of Dispute.
The Dispute submitted to the DDO must include:
(1) A copy of the disputed Agency Decision;
(2) A detailed statement of the specific legal and factual grounds for the Dispute, including copies of any supporting documents;
(3) The specific remedy or relief the Affected Entity seeks under the Dispute; and
(4) The name and contact information, including email address, of the Affected Entity's designated point of contact for the Dispute.
[85 FR 61575, Sept. 30, 2020]
§ 1500.16
Notice of receipt of Dispute to Affected Entity.
Within 15 calendar days of receiving the Dispute, the DDO will provide the Affected Entity a written notice, sent electronically, acknowledging receipt of the Dispute.
(a)
Timely Disputes.
If the Dispute was timely submitted, the notice of acknowledgement may identify any additional information or documentation that is required for a thorough consideration of the Dispute. The notice should provide no more than 30 calendar days for the Affected Entity to provide the requested information. If it is not feasible to identify such information or documentation in the notice the DDO may request it at a later point in time prior to issuance of the Dispute decision.
(b)
Untimely Disputes.
If the DDO did not receive the Dispute within the required 30-day period, or any extension of it, the DDO will notify the Affected Entity that the Dispute is being dismissed as untimely and the Agency Decision of the AO becomes final. The dismissal of an untimely Dispute constitutes the final agency action. In appropriate circumstances, the DDO may, as a matter of discretion, consider an untimely Dispute if doing so would be in the interests of fairness and equity.
[85 FR 61575, Sept. 30, 2020]
§ 1500.17
Determination of Dispute.
(a) In determining the merits of the Dispute, the DDO will consider the record related to the Agency Decision, any documentation that the Affected Entity submits with its Dispute, any additional documentation submitted by the Affected Entity in response to the DDO's request under § 1500.16(a), and any other information the DDO determines is relevant to the Dispute
provided the DDO gives notice of that information to the Affected Entity. The Affected Entity may not on its own initiative submit any additional documents except in the support of a request for reconsideration under paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) The DDO will issue the Dispute decision within 180 calendar days from the date the Dispute is received by the DDO unless a longer period is necessary based on the complexity of the legal, technical, and factual issues presented. The DDO will notify the Affected Entity if the expected decision will not be issued within the 180-day period and if feasible will indicate when the decision is expected to be issued. The DDO will issue the Dispute decision electronically and advise the Affected Entity of procedures for requesting reconsideration. The DDO's decision will constitute the final agency action unless the Affected Entity electronically petitions the DDO for reconsideration within 15 calendar days of issuance of the DDO Decision. The Affected Entity must include a detailed statement of the factual and legal grounds warranting reversal or modification of the DDO decision. In addition, the Affected Entity may submit additional documents that were not previously provided to the DDO.
(c) If a petition for reconsideration is submitted, the DDO's will advise the Affected Entity within 15 calendar days of receipt of the petition whether the DDO Decision will be reconsidered. The DDO will issue this determination electronically. DDO's will only grant a reconsideration petition if the Affected Entity provides relevant and material evidence that was not available to the Affected Entity at the time the Dispute was submitted or to correct a clear and prejudicial error of fact or law. Denial of a petition for reconsideration constitutes final agency action and the DDO will advise the Affected Entity of the reasons for denying the reconsideration in writing.
(d) If the DDO grants a reconsideration petition, the DDO will issue a revised DDO Decision within 30 calendar days of acceptance of the reconsideration petition unless a longer period is necessary based on the complexity of the legal, technical, and factual issues presented. The DDO will issue the revised DDO Decision electronically. The revised DDO Decision and any new material considered by the DDO in making the revised DDO Decision will become part of the record of the Dispute. The revised DDO Decision will constitute final agency action.
(e) The DDO may consider untimely filed reconsideration petitions only if necessary, to correct a DDO Decision that is manifestly unfair and inequitable in light of relevant and material evidence that the Affected Entity could not have discovered during the 15-calendar day period for petitioning for reconsideration. This evidence must be submitted within six months of the date of the DDO Decision. The DDO will advise the Affected Entity within 30 days of receipt of an untimely filed reconsideration petition whether the DDO will accept the petition. Denial of an untimely filed reconsideration petition constitutes final agency action.
[85 FR 61575, Sept. 30, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 30397, May 19, 2022]
PARTS 1501-1531 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1532

# PART 1532—NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
Sec.
1532.10
What does this part do?
1532.20
Does this part apply to me?
1532.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?

# Subpart A—General
1532.137
Who in the EPA may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
1532.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
1532.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
1532.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
Subparts E-F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Suspension
1532.765
How may I appeal my EPA suspension?

# Subpart H—Debarment
1532.890
How may I appeal my EPA debarment?

# Subpart I—Definitions
1532.995
Principal (EPA supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.995).

# Subpart J—Statutory Disqualification and Reinstatement Under the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act
1532.1100
What does this subpart do?
1532.1105
Does this subpart apply to me?
1532.1110
How will a CAA or CWA conviction affect my eligibility to participate in Federal contracts, subcontracts, assistance, loans and other benefits?
1532.1115
Can the EPA extend a CAA or CWA disqualification to other facilities?
1532.1120
What is the purpose of CAA or CWA disqualification?
1532.1125
How do award officials and others know if I am disqualified?
1532.1130
How does disqualification under the CAA or CWA differ from a Federal discretionary suspension or debarment action?
1532.1135
Does CAA or CWA disqualification mean that I must remain ineligible?
1532.1140
Can an exception be made to allow me to receive an award even though I may be disqualified?
1532.1200
How will I know if I am disqualified under the CAA or CWA?
1532.1205
What procedures must I follow to have my procurement and nonprocurement eligibility reinstated under the CAA or CWA?
1532.1210
Will anyone else provide information to the EPA debarring official concerning my reinstatement request?
1532.1215
What happens if I disagree with the information provided by others to the EPA debarring official on my reinstatement request?
1532.1220
What will the EPA debarring official consider in making a decision on my reinstatement request?
1532.1225
When will the EPA debarring official make a decision on my reinstatement request?
1532.1230
How will the EPA debarring official notify me of the reinstatement decision?
1532.1300
Can I resolve my eligibility status under terms of an administrative agreement without having to submit a formal reinstatement request?
1532.1305
What are the consequences if I mislead the EPA in seeking reinstatement or fail to comply with my administrative agreement?
1532.1400
How may I appeal a decision denying my request for reinstatement?
1532.1500
If I am reinstated, when will my name be removed from the EPLS?
1532.1600
What definitions apply specifically to actions under this subpart?

# Authority:
33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.;
Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note); E.O. 11738 (3 CFR, 1973 Comp., p. 799); E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189); E.O. 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235).

# Source:
72 FR 2422, Jan. 19, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1532.10
What does this part do?
This part adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this part, as the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) policies and procedures for nonprocurement debarment and suspension. It thereby gives regulatory effect for the EPA to the OMB guidance as supplemented by this part. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189), Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Section 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327).
§ 1532.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 (see table at 2 CFR 180.100(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Participant or principal in a “covered transaction” (see subpart B of 2 CFR part 180 and the definition of “nonprocurement transaction” at 2 CFR 180.970;
(b) Respondent in an EPA suspension or debarment action;
(c) EPA debarment or suspension official; or
(d) EPA grants officer, agreements officer, or other official authorized to enter into any type of nonprocurement transaction that is a covered transaction.
§ 1532.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
The EPA policies and procedures that you must follow are the policies and procedures specified in each applicable section of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as that section is supplemented by the section in this part with the same section number. The contracts that are covered transactions, for example, are specified by section 220 of the OMB guidance (i.e., 2 CFR 180.220) as supplemented by section 220 in this part (i.e., § 1532.220). For any section of OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR 180 that has no corresponding section in this part, EPA policies and procedures are those in the OMB guidance.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1532.137
Who in the EPA may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
The EPA Debarring Official has the authority to grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction, as provided in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.135. If the EPA Debarring Official grants an exception, the exception must be in writing and state the reason(s) for deviating from the governmentwide policy in Executive Order 12549.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 1532.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?
In addition to the contracts covered under 2 CFR 180.220(b) of the OMB guidance, this part applies to any contract, regardless of tier, that is awarded by a contractor, subcontractor, supplier, consultant, or its agent or representative in any transaction, if the contract is to be funded or provided by the EPA under a covered nonprocurement transaction and the amount of the contract is expected to equal or exceed $25,000. This extends the coverage of the EPA nonprocurement suspension and debarment requirements to all lower tiers of subcontracts under covered nonprocurement transactions, as permitted under the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.220(c) (see optional lower tier coverage in the figure in the appendix to 2 CFR part 180).

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
§ 1532.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
You as a participant must include a term or condition in lower-tier transactions requiring lower-tier participants to comply with subpart C of the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this subpart.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 1532.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
To communicate to a participant the requirements described in 2 CFR 180.435 of the OMB guidance, you must include a term or condition in the transaction that requires the participant's compliance with subpart C of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by subpart C of this part, and requires the participant to include a similar term or condition in lower-tier covered transactions.
Subparts E-F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Suspension
§ 1532.765
How may I appeal my EPA suspension?
(a) If the EPA suspending official issues a decision under 2 CFR 180.755 to continue your suspension after you
present information in opposition to that suspension under 2 CFR 180.720, you can ask for review of the suspending official's decision in two ways:
(1) You may ask the suspending official to reconsider the decision for material errors of fact or law that you believe will change the outcome of the matter; and/or
(2) You may request the Director, Office of Grants and Debarment (OGD Director), to review the suspending official's decision to continue your suspension within 30 days of your receipt of the suspending official's decision under 2 CFR 180.755 or paragraph (a)(1) of this section. However, the OGD Director can reverse the suspending official's decision only where the OGD Director finds that the decision is based on a clear error of material fact or law, or where the OGD Director finds that the suspending official's decision was arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion.
(b) A request for review under this section must be in writing; state the specific findings you believe to be in error; and include the reasons or legal bases for your position.
(c) A review under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is solely within the discretion of the OGD Director who may also stay the suspension pending review of the suspending official's decision.
(d) The EPA suspending official and the OGD Director must notify you of their decisions under this section, in writing, using the notice procedures at 2 CFR 180.615 and 180.975.

# Subpart H—Debarment
§ 1532.890
How may I appeal my EPA debarment?
(a) If the EPA debarring official issues a decision under 2 CFR 180.870 to debar you after you present information in opposition to a proposed debarment under 2 CFR 180.815, you can ask for review of the debarring official's decision in two ways:
(1) You may ask the debarring official to reconsider the decision for material errors of fact or law that you believe will change the outcome of the matter; and/or
(2) You may request the Director, Office of Grants and Debarment (OGD Director), to review the debarring official's decision to debar you within 30 days of your receipt of the debarring official's decision under 2 CFR 180.870 or paragraph (a)(1) of this section. However, the OGD Director can reverse the debarring official's decision only where the OGD Director finds that the decision is based on a clear error of material fact or law, or where the OGD Director finds that the debarring official's decision was arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion.
(b) A request for review under this section must be in writing; state the specific findings you believe to be in error; and include the reasons or legal bases for your position.
(c) A review under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is solely within the discretion of the OGD Director who may also stay the debarment pending review of the debarring official's decision.
(d) The EPA debarring official and the OGD Director must notify you of their decisions under this section, in writing, using the notice procedures at 2 CFR 180.615 and 180.975.

# Subpart I—Definitions
§ 1532.995
Principal (EPA supplement to government-wide definition at 2 CFR 180.995).
In addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.995, other examples of individuals who are principals in EPA covered transactions include:
(a) Principal investigators;
(b) Technical or management consultants;
(c) Individuals performing chemical or scientific analysis or oversight;
(d) Professional service providers such as doctors, lawyers, accountants, engineers, etc.;
(e) Individuals responsible for the inspection, sale, removal, transportation, storage or disposal of solid or hazardous waste or materials;
(f) Individuals whose duties require special licenses;
(g) Individuals that certify, authenticate or authorize billings; and
(h) Individuals that serve in positions of public trust.

# Subpart J—Statutory Disqualification and Reinstatement Under the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act
§ 1532.1100
What does this subpart do?
This subpart explains how the EPA administers section 306 of the Clean Air Act (CAA) (42 U.S.C. 7606) and section 508 of the Clean Water Act (CWA) (33 U.S.C. 1368), which disqualify persons convicted for certain offenses under those statutes (see § 1532.1105), from eligibility to receive certain contracts, subcontracts, assistance, loans and other benefits (see coverage under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4 and subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180). It also explains: the procedures for seeking reinstatement of a person's eligibility under the CAA or CWA; the criteria and standards that apply to EPA's decision-making process; and requirements of award officials and others involved in Federal procurement and nonprocurement activities in carrying out their responsibilities under the CAA and CWA.
§ 1532.1105
Does this subpart apply to me?
(a) Portions of this subpart apply to you if you are convicted, or likely to be convicted, of any offense under section 7413(c) of the CAA or section 1319(c) of the CWA.
(b) Portions of this subpart apply to you if you are the EPA debarring official, a Federal procurement or nonprocurement award official, a participant in a Federal procurement or nonprocurement program that is precluded from entering into a covered transaction with a person disqualified under the CAA or CWA, or if you are a Federal department or agency anticipating issuing an exception to a person otherwise disqualified under the CAA or CWA.
§ 1532.1110
How will a CAA or CWA conviction affect my eligibility to participate in Federal contracts, subcontracts, assistance, loans and other benefits?
If you are convicted of any offense described in § 1532.1105, you are automatically disqualified from eligibility to receive any contract, subcontract, assistance, sub-assistance, loan or other nonprocurement benefit or transaction that is prohibited by a Federal department or agency under the Governmentwide debarment and suspension system (i.e. covered transactions under subpart A through I of 2 CFR part 180, or prohibited awards under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4), if you:
(a) Will perform any part of the transaction or award at the facility giving rise to your conviction (called the violating facility); and
(b) You own, lease or supervise the violating facility.
§ 1532.1115
Can the EPA extend a CAA or CWA disqualification to other facilities?
The CAA specifically authorizes the EPA to extend a CAA disqualification to other facilities that are owned or operated by the convicted person. The EPA also has authority under subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, or under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, to take discretionary suspension and debarment actions on the basis of misconduct leading to a CAA or CWA conviction, or for activities that the EPA debarring official believes were designed to improperly circumvent a CAA or CWA disqualification.
§ 1532.1120
What is the purpose of CAA or CWA disqualification?
As provided for in Executive Order 11738 (3 CFR, 1973 Comp., p. 799), the purpose of CAA and CWA disqualification is to enforce the Federal Government's policy of undertaking Federal procurement and nonprocurement activities in a manner that improves and enhances environmental quality by promoting effective enforcement of the CAA or CWA.
§ 1532.1125
How do award officials and others know if I am disqualified?
If you are convicted under these statutes, the EPA enters your name and address and that of the violating facility into the Excluded Parties List System (EPLS) as soon as possible after the EPA learns of your conviction. In addition, the EPA enters other information describing the nature of your
disqualification. Federal award officials and others who administer Federal programs consult the EPLS before entering into or approving procurement and nonprocurement transactions. Anyone may access the EPLS through the internet, currently at
http://www.epls.gov.
§ 1532.1130
How does disqualification under the CAA or CWA differ from a Federal discretionary suspension or debarment action?
(a) CAA and CWA disqualifications are exclusions mandated by statute. In contrast, suspensions and debarments imposed under subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 or under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, are exclusions imposed at the discretion of Federal suspending or debarring officials. This means that if you are convicted of violating the CAA or CWA provisions described under § 1532.1105, ordinarily your name and that of the violating facility is placed into the EPLS before you receive a confirmation notice of the listing, or have the opportunity to discuss the disqualification with, or seek reinstatement from, the EPA.
(b) CAA or CWA disqualification applies to both the person convicted of the offense, and to the violating facility during performance of an award or covered transaction under the Federal procurement and nonprocurement suspension and debarment system. It is the EPA's policy to carry out CAA and CWA disqualifications in a manner which integrates the disqualifications into the Governmentwide suspension and debarment system. Whenever the EPA determines that the risk presented to Federal procurement and nonprocurement activities on the basis of the misconduct which gives rise to a person's CAA or CWA conviction exceeds the coverage afforded by mandatory disqualification, the EPA may use its discretionary authority to suspend or debar a person under subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, or under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4.
§ 1532.1135
Does CAA or CWA disqualification mean that I must remain ineligible?
You must remain ineligible until the EPA debarring official certifies that the condition giving rise to your conviction has been corrected. If you desire to have your disqualification terminated, you must submit a written request for reinstatement to the EPA debarring official and support your request with persuasive documentation. For information about the process for reinstatement see §§ 1532.1205 and 1532.1300.
§ 1532.1140
Can an exception be made to allow me to receive an award even though I may be disqualified?
(a) After consulting with the EPA debarring official, the head of any Federal department or agency (or designee) may exempt any particular award or a class of awards with that department or agency from CAA or CWA disqualification. In the event an exemption is granted, the exemption must:
(1) Be in writing; and
(2) State why the exemption is in the paramount interests of the United States.
(b) In the event an exemption is granted, the exempting department or agency must send a copy of the exemption decision to the EPA debarring official for inclusion in the official record.
§ 1532.1200
How will I know if I am disqualified under the CAA or CWA?
There may be several ways that you learn about your disqualification. You are legally on notice by the statutes that a criminal conviction the CAA or CWA automatically disqualifies you. As a practical matter, you may learn about your disqualification from your defense counsel, a Federal contract or award official, or from someone else who sees your name in the EPLS. As a courtesy, the EPA will attempt to notify you and the owner, lessor or supervisor of the violating facility that your names have been entered into the EPLS. The EPA will inform you of the procedures for seeking reinstatement and give you the name of a person you can contact to discuss your reinstatement request.
§ 1532.1205
What procedures must I follow to have my procurement and nonprocurement eligibility reinstated under the CAA or CWA?
(a) You must submit a written request for reinstatement to the EPA debarring official stating what you believe the conditions were that led to your conviction, and how those conditions have been corrected, relieved or addressed. Your request must include documentation sufficient to support all material assertions you make. The debarring official must determine that all the technical and non-technical causes, conditions and consequences of your actions have been sufficiently addressed so that the Government can confidently conduct future business activities with you, and that your future operations will be conducted in compliance with the CAA and CWA.
(b) You may begin the reinstatement process by having informal discussions with the EPA representative named in your notification of listing. Having informal dialogue with that person will make you aware of the EPA concerns that must be addressed. The EPA representative is not required to negotiate conditions for your reinstatement. However, beginning the reinstatement process with informal dialogue increases the chance of achieving a favorable outcome, and avoids unnecessary delay that may result from an incomplete or inadequate reinstatement request. It may also allow you to resolve your disqualification by reaching an agreement with the EPA debarring official under informal procedures. Using your informal option first does not prevent you from submitting a formal reinstatement request with the debarring official at any time.
§ 1532.1210
Will anyone else provide information to the EPA debarring official concerning my reinstatement request?
If you request reinstatement under § 1532.1205, the EPA debarring official may obtain review and comment on your request by anyone who may have information about, or an official interest in, the matter. For example, the debarring official may consult with the EPA Regional offices, the Department of Justice or other Federal agencies, or state, tribal or local governments. The EPA debarring official will make sure that you have an opportunity to address important allegations or information contained in the administrative record before making a final decision on your request for reinstatement.
§ 1532.1215
What happens if I disagree with the information provided by others to the EPA debarring official on my reinstatement request?
(a) If your reinstatement request is based on factual information (as opposed to a legal matter or discretionary conclusion) that is different from the information provided by others or otherwise contained in the administrative record, the debarring official will decide whether those facts are genuinely in dispute, and material to making a decision. If so, a fact-finding proceeding will be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR 180.830 through 180.840, and the debarring official will consider the findings when making a decision on your reinstatement request.
(b) If the basis for your disagreement with the information contained in the administrative record relates to a legal issue or discretionary conclusion, or is not a genuine dispute over a material fact, you will not have a fact-finding proceeding. However, the debarring official will allow you ample opportunity to support your position for the record and present matters in opposition to your continued disqualification. A summary of any information you provide orally, if not already recorded, should also be submitted to the debarring official in writing to assure that it is preserved for the debarring official's consideration and the administrative record.
§ 1532.1220
What will the EPA debarring official consider in making a decision on my reinstatement request?
(a) The EPA debarring official will consider all information and arguments contained in the administrative record in support of, or in opposition to, your request for reinstatement, including any findings of material fact.
(b) The debarring official will also consider any mitigating or aggravating factors that may relate to your conviction or the circumstances surrounding
it, including any of those factors that appear in 2 CFR 180.860 that may apply to your situation.
(c) Finally, if disqualification applies to a business entity, the debarring official will consider any corporate or business attitude, policies, practices and procedures that contributed to the events leading to conviction, or that may have been implemented since the date of the misconduct or conviction. You can obtain any current policy directives issued by the EPA that apply to CAA or CWA disqualification or reinstatement by contacting the Office of the EPA Debarring Official, U.S. EPA, Office of Grants and Debarment (3901R), 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20460.
§ 1532.1225
When will the EPA debarring official make a decision on my reinstatement request?
(a) The EPA debarring official will make a decision regarding your reinstatement request under § 1532.1205(a), when the administrative record is complete, and he or she can determine whether the condition giving rise to the CAA or CWA conviction has been corrected-usually within 45 days of closing the administrative record.
(b) A reinstatement request is not officially before the debarring official while you are having informal discussions under § 1532.1205(b).
§ 1532.1230
How will the EPA debarring official notify me of the reinstatement decision?
The EPA debarring official will notify you of the reinstatement decision in writing, using the same methods for communicating debarment or suspension action notices under 2 CFR 180.615.
§ 1532.1300
Can I resolve my eligibility status under terms of an administrative agreement without having to submit a formal reinstatement request?
(a) The EPA debarring official may, at any time, resolve your CAA or CWA eligibility status under the terms of an administrative agreement. Ordinarily, the debarring official will not make an offer to you for reinstatement until after the administrative record for decision is complete, or contains enough information to enable him or her to make an informed decision in the matter.
(b) Any resolution of your eligibility status under the CAA or CWA resulting from an administrative agreement must include a certification that the condition giving rise to the conviction has been corrected.
(c) The EPA debarring official may enter into an administrative agreement to resolve CAA or CWA disqualification issues as part of a comprehensive criminal plea, civil or administrative agreement when it is in the best interest of the United States to do so.
§ 1532.1305
What are the consequences if I mislead the EPA in seeking reinstatement or fail to comply with my administrative agreement?
(a) Any certification of correction issued by the EPA debarring official whether the certification results from a reinstatement decision under §§ 1532.1205(a) and 1532.1230, or from an administrative agreement under §§ 1532.1205(b) and 1532.1300, is conditioned upon the accuracy of the information, representations or assurances made during development of the administrative record.
(b) If the EPA debarring official finds that he or she has certified correction of the condition giving rise to a CAA or CWA conviction or violation on the basis of a false, misleading, incomplete or inaccurate information; or if a person fails to comply with material condition of an administrative agreement, the EPA debarring official may take suspension or debarment action against the person(s) responsible for the misinformation or noncompliance with the agreement as appropriate. If anyone provides false, inaccurate, incomplete or misleading information to EPA in an attempt to obtain reinstatement, the EPA debarring official will refer the matter to the EPA Office of Inspector General for potential criminal or civil action.
§ 1532.1400
How may I appeal a decision denying my request for reinstatement?
(a) If the EPA debarring official denies your request for reinstatement under the CAA or CWA, you can ask for review of the debarring official's decision in two ways:
(1) You may ask the debarring official to reconsider the decision for material errors of fact or law that you believe will change the outcome of the matter; and/ or
(2) You may request the Director, Office of Grants and Debarment (OGD Director), to review the debarring official's denial within 30 days of your receipt of the debarring official's decision under § 1532.1230 or paragraph (a)(1) of this section. However, the OGD Director can reverse the debarring official's decision denying reinstatement only where the OGD Director finds that there is a clear error of material fact or law, or where the OGD Director finds that the debarring official's decision was arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion.
(b) A request for review under this section must be in writing and state the specific findings you believe to be in error and include the reasons or legal bases for your position.
(c) A review under this section is solely within the discretion of the OGD Director.
(d) The OGD Director must notify you of his or her decision under this section, in writing, using the notice procedures at 2 CFR 180.615 and 180.975.
§ 1532.1500
If I am reinstated, when will my name be removed from the EPLS?
If your eligibility for procurement and nonprocurement participation is restored under the CAA or CWA, whether by decision, appeal, or by administrative agreement, the EPA will remove your name and that of the violating facility from the EPLS, generally within 5 working days of your reinstatement.
§ 1532.1600
What definitions apply specifically to actions under this subpart?
In addition to definitions under subpart A through I of 2 CFR part 180 that apply to this part as a whole, the following two definitions apply specifically to CAA and CWA disqualifications under this subpart:
(a) Person means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, state, municipality, commission, or political subdivision of a state, or any interstate body.
(b) Violating facility means any building, plant, installation, structure, mine, vessel, floating craft, location or site of operations that gives rise to a CAA or CWA conviction, and is a location at which or from which a Federal contract, subcontract, loan, assistance award or other covered transactions may be performed. If a site of operations giving rise to a CAA or CWA conviction contains or includes more than one building, plant, installation, structure, mine, vessel, floating craft, or other operational element, the entire location or site of operation is regarded as the violating facility unless otherwise limited by the EPA.
Pt. 1536

# PART 1536—REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE)
Sec.
1536.10
What does this part do?
1536.20
Does this part apply to me?
1536.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
1536.225
Whom in the Environmental Protection Agency does a recipient other than an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
1536.300
Whom in the Environmental Protection Agency does a recipient who is an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Agency Awarding Officials
1536.400
What method do I use as an agency awarding official to obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with the OMB guidance?

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
1536.500
Who in the Environmental Protection Agency determines that a recipient
other than an individual violated the requirements of this part?
1536.505
Who in the Environmental Protection Agency determines that a recipient who is an individual violated the requirements of this part?

# Authority:
41 U.S.C. 701-707.

# Source:
75 FR 80288, Dec. 22, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1536.10
What does this part do?
This part requires that the award and administration of Environmental Protection Agency grants and cooperative agreements comply with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance implementing the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701-707, as amended, hereafter referred to as “the Act”) that applies to grants. It thereby—
(a) Gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance (Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182) for the Environmental Protection Agency's grants and cooperative agreements; and
(b) Establishes Environmental Protection Agency policies and procedures for compliance with the Act that are the same as those of other Federal agencies, in conformance with the requirement in 41 U.S.C. 705 for Governmentwide implementing regulations.
§ 1536.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182 (
see
table at 2 CFR 182.115(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Recipient of a Environmental Protection Agency grant or cooperative agreement; or
(b) Environmental Protection Agency awarding official.
§ 1536.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
(a)
General.
You must follow the policies and procedures specified in applicable sections of the OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(b)
Specific sections of OMB guidance that this part supplements.
In implementing the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 182, this part supplements four sections of the guidance, as shown in the following table. For each of those sections, you must follow the policies and procedures in the OMB guidance, as supplemented by this part.
Section of OMB guidance
Section in this
part where
supplemented
What the supplementation clarifies
(1) 2 CFR 182.225(a)
§ 1536.225
Whom in the Environmental Protection Agency a recipient other than an individual must notify if an employee is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute in the workplace.
(2) 2 CFR 182.300(b)
§ 1536.300
Whom in the Environmental Protection Agency a recipient who is an individual must notify if he or she is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
(3) 2 CFR 182.500
§ 1536.500
Who in the Environmental Protection Agency is authorized to determine that a recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(4) 2 CFR 182.505
§ 1536.505
Who in the Environmental Protection Agency is authorized to determine that a recipient who is an individual is in violation of the requirements of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(c)
Sections of the OMB guidance that this part does not supplement.
For any section of OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182 that is not listed in paragraph (b) of this section, Environmental Protection Agency policies and procedures are the same as those in the OMB guidance.
Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
§ 1536.225
Whom in the Environmental Protection Agency does a recipient other than an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?
A recipient other than an individual that is required under 2 CFR 182.225(a) to notify Federal agencies about an employee's conviction for a criminal drug offense must notify the EPA
award official from each Environmental Protection Agency office from which it currently has an award.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
§ 1536.300
Whom in the Environmental Protection Agency does a recipient who is an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?
A recipient who is an individual and is required under 2 CFR 182.300(b) to notify Federal agencies about a conviction for a criminal drug offense must notify the EPA award official from each Environmental Protection Agency office from which it currently has an award.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Agency Awarding Officials
§ 1536.400
What method do I use as an agency awarding official to obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with the OMB guidance?
To obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with applicable requirements in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 182, you must include the following term or condition in the award:
Drug-free workplace. You as the recipient must comply with drug-free workplace requirements in Subpart B (or Subpart C, if the recipient is an individual) of 2 CFR Subtitle B, Chapter XV, Part 1536, which adopts the Governmentwide implementation (2 CFR part 182) of sec. 5152-5158 of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-690, Title V, Subtitle D; 41 U.S.C. 701-707).

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
§ 1536.500
Who in the Environmental Protection Agency determines that a recipient other than an individual violated the requirements of this part?
The EPA Administrator or designee is the official authorized to make the determination under 2 CFR 182.500.
§ 1536.505
Who in the Environmental Protection Agency determines that a recipient who is an individual violated the requirements of this part?
The EPA Administrator or designee is the official authorized to make the determination under 2 CFR 182.505.
PARTS 1537-1599 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. XVI (1-1-25 Edition)
US International Development Finance Corporation

# CHAPTER XVI—US International Development Finance Corporation
Part
Page
1600
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension
555
1601-1699
[Reserved]
Pt. 1600

# PART 1600—NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
Sec.
1600.10
What does this part do?
1600.20
Does this part apply to me?
1600.30
What regulations must I follow?

# Subpart A—General
1600.137
Who in DFC may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
1600.215
Which nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions?
1600.220
What contracts and subcontracts are covered transactions?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
1600.332
What requirements must I pass down to persons at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
1600.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements for participating in a covered transaction?
Subparts E-F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Suspension
1600.765
How may I request reconsideration of my DFC suspension?

# Subpart H—Debarment
1600.890
How may I request reconsideration of my DFC debarment?

# Subpart I—Definitions
1600.930
Debarring official.
1600.1010
Suspending official.

# Authority:
Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note); E.O. 12549, 51 FR 6370, 3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189; E.O. 12689, 54 FR 34131, 3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235.

# Source:
89 FR 34953, May 1, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1600.10
What does this part do?
This part adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this part, as the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) regulations for non-procurement debarment and suspension. It thereby gives regulatory effect for DFC to the OMB guidance as supplemented by this part. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189); Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235); and section 2455 of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994, Public Law 103-355 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note).
§ 1600.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 (see table at 2 CFR 180.100(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Participant or principal in a “covered transaction” (see 2 CFR part 180, subpart B, and the definition of “non-procurement transaction” at 2 CFR 180.970);
(b) Respondent in a DFC suspension or debarment action;
(c) DFC suspending or debarring official; and
(d) DFC investment, guarantee, insurance or grant official authorized to enter into any type of non-procurement transaction that is a covered transaction.
§ 1600.30
What regulations must I follow?
The DFC regulations that you must follow are the regulations specified in each applicable section of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 as that section is supplemented by the section in this part with the same section number or by additional provisions with no corresponding section number. For any section of OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 that has no corresponding section in this part, DFC regulations are those in the OMB guidance.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1600.137
Who in DFC may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of DFC or designee may grant an exception permitting an excluded person to participate in a particular covered transaction. If the CEO of DFC or designee grants an exception, the exception must be in writing and state the reason(s) for deviating from the Governmentwide policy in Executive Order 12549.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 1600.215
Which nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions?
In addition to the nonprocurement transactions which are not covered transactions under 2 CFR 180.215, any nonprocurement transaction entered into under a primary tier nonprocurement transaction that does not require DFC explicit prior consent is not a covered transaction under 2 CFR 180.215(g)(2).
§ 1600.220
What contracts and subcontracts are covered transactions?
First-tier procurements (
i.e.,
primary contracts) under a covered nonprocurement transaction are covered transactions. Although the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.220(c) allows a Federal agency to do so (see also optional lower tier coverage in the figure in the appendix to 2 CFR part 180), DFC does not extend coverage of nonprocurement suspension and debarment requirements beyond first-tier procurement under a covered nonprocurement transaction. Moreover, for purposes of determining whether a procurement contract is included as a covered transaction, the threshold in 2 CFR 180.220(b) is increased from $25,000 to the “simplified acquisition threshold” as defined in 48 CFR 2.101.

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
§ 1600.332
What requirements must I pass down to persons at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
You, as a participant, must include a term or condition in lower-tier transactions that are covered transactions, requiring lower-tier participants to comply with the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180, subpart C, as supplemented by this subpart.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 1600.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements for participating in a covered transaction?
To communicate to a participant the requirements described in 2 CFR 180.435, you must include provisions in the contractual documentation of the transaction to ensure compliance with 2 CFR part 180, subpart C, as supplemented by subpart C of this part. The provisions must also require the participant to include similar terms or conditions of compliance in lower-tier covered transactions.
Subparts E-F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Suspension
§ 1600.765
How may I request reconsideration of my DFC suspension?
(a) If the DFC suspending official issues a decision under 2 CFR 180.755 to continue your suspension after you present information in opposition to that suspension under 2 CFR 180.720, you can ask the suspending official to reconsider the decision for material errors of fact or law that you believe will change the outcome of the matter.
(b) A request for review under this section must be in writing; state the specific findings you believe to be in error; and include the reasons or legal bases for your position.
(c) The suspending official must notify you of their decisions under this
section, in writing, using the notice procedures at 2 CFR 180.615 and 180.975.

# Subpart H—Debarment
§ 1600.890
How may I request reconsideration of my DFC debarment?
(a) If the DFC debarring official issues a decision under 2 CFR 180.870 to debar you after you present information in opposition to a proposed debarment under 2 CFR 180.815, you can ask the debarring official to reconsider the decision for material errors of fact or law that you believe will change the outcome of the matter.
(b) A request for review under this section must be in writing; state the specific findings you believe to be in error; and include the reasons or legal bases for your position.
(c) DFC may debar a person or entity for refusing to engage in efforts to remediate identified environmental, social, and human rights harm stemming from their activities, including harm that may be identified through a DFC Office of Accountability complaints process.
(d) The debarring official must notify you of their decisions under this section, in writing, using the notice procedures at 2 CFR 180.615 and 180.975.

# Subpart I—Definitions
§ 1600.930
Debarring official.
The debarring official for DFC is the Vice President
Chief Administrative Officer, Office of Administration, or designee as delegated in Agency policy.
§ 1600.1010
Suspending official.
The suspending official for DFC is the Vice President
Chief Administrative Officer, Office of Administration, or designee as delegated in Agency policy.

# PARTS 1601-1699 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. XVIII (1-1-25 Edition)
National Aeronautics and Space Administration

# CHAPTER XVIII—NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION
Part
Page
1800
Uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards
561
1801-1879
[Reserved]
1880
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension
563
1881
[Reserved]
1882
Requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance)
564
1883-1899
[Reserved]
Pt. 1800

# PART 1800—UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
Sec.
1800.1
Authority.
1800.2
Purpose.
1800.3
Applicability.
1800.4
Amendment.
1800.5
Publication.

# Subpart A—Acronyms and Definitions
1800.10
Acronyms.

# Subpart B—Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards
1800.210
Pre-award costs.
1800.211
Information contained in a Federal award.

# Subpart C—Post Federal Award Requirements

# Standards for Financial and Program Management
1800.306
Cost sharing or matching.

# Property Standards
1800.312
Federally-owned and exempt property.
1800.315
Intangible property.

# Authority:
51 U.S.C. 20113 (e), Pub. L. 97-258, 96 Stat. 1003 (31 U.S.C. 6301
et seq.
), and 2 CFR part 200.

# Source:
80 FR 54701, Sept. 11, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1800.1
Authority.
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) awards grants and cooperative agreements under the authority of 51 U.S.C. 20113 (e), the National Aeronautics and Space Act. This part 1800 is issued under the authority of 51 U.S.C. 20113 (e), Pub. L. 97-258, 96 Stat. 1003 (31 U.S.C. 6301
et seq.
), and 2 CFR part 200.
§ 1800.2
Purpose.
This part adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in subparts A through F and applicable appendices of 2 CFR part 200 (as revised in April 2024), as supplemented by this part, as the NASA policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards. It thereby gives regulatory effect for NASA to the OMB guidance as supplemented by this part.
[89 FR 75948, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 1800.3
Applicability.
(a) This part establishes policies and procedures for grants and cooperative agreements awarded by NASA to non-Federal entities, for-profit organization, foreign organizations, and foreign public entities as allowed by 2 CFR 200.101. For supplemental guidance, NASA has adopted section numbers that correspond to those in the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 200.
(1) Non-Federal entities must follow the policies and procedures appearing in subparts A through F and applicable appendices of 2 CFR part 200 and as supplemented by this part.
(2) Foreign organizations and foreign public entities must follow the policies and procedures appearing in subparts A through E and applicable appendices of 2 CFR part 200 and as supplemented by this part.
(3) U.S. and foreign for-profit organizations must follow the policies and procedures appearing in subparts A through D and applicable appendices of 2 CFR part 200 and as supplemented by this part. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) at 48 CFR parts 30 and 31, takes precedence over the cost principles in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E for Federal awards to U.S. and foreign for-profit organizations.
(b) Throughout this part, the term “award” refers to both “grant” and “cooperative agreement” unless otherwise indicated.
(c)(1) In general, research with foreign organizations and foreign public entities will not be conducted through grants or cooperative agreements, but instead will be accomplished on a no-exchange-of-funds basis. In these cases, NASA enters into agreements undertaking projects of international scientific collaboration. NASA's policy on performing research with foreign organizations and foreign public entities on a no-exchange-of-funds basis is set forth at NASA FAR Supplement (NFS) 1835.016-70 and 1835.016-72. In rare instances, NASA may enter into an
international agreement under which funds will be transferred to a foreign recipient.
(2) Grants or cooperative agreements awarded to foreign organizations and foreign public entities are made on an exceptional basis only. Awards require the prior approval of the Headquarters Office of International and Interagency Relations and the Headquarters Office of the General Counsel. Requests to issue awards to foreign organizations are to be coordinated through the Office of Procurement, Procurement and Grants Policy Division.
[89 FR 75948, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 1800.4
Amendment.
This part will be amended by publication of changes in the
Federal Register.
Changes will be issued as final rules.
§ 1800.5
Publication.
The official site for accessing the NASA grant and cooperative agreement policies, including notices, internal guidance, certifications, and other source information is on the internet at
https://www.nasa.gov/general/grants-policy-and-compliance-team/.
[89 FR 75948, Sept. 17, 2024]

# Subpart A—Acronyms and Definitions
§ 1800.10
Acronyms.
The following acronyms supplement the acronyms set forth at 2 CFR 200.0:
NASA National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NFS NASA FAR Supplement
[89 FR 75948, Sept. 17, 2024]

# Subpart B—Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards
§ 1800.210
Pre-award costs.
As authorized by 2 CFR 200.308, Revision of budget and program plans, NASA waives the approval requirement for pre-award costs of 90 days or less. For more information on NASA's pre-award cost policy, see NASA's policy documents at
https://www.nasa.gov/general/grants-policy-and-compliance-team/.
[89 FR 75948, Sept. 17, 2024]
§ 1800.211
Information contained in a Federal award.
NASA waives the requirement for the inclusion of indirect cost rates on any notice of Federal award for for-profit organizations.
[89 FR 75948, Sept. 17, 2024]

# Subpart C—Post Federal Award Requirements

# Standards for Financial and Program Management
§ 1800.306
Cost sharing or matching.
In some cases, NASA research projects require cost sharing or matching. Where cost sharing or matching is required, recipients must secure and document matching funds to receive the Federal award.
[85 FR 71817, Nov. 12, 2020]

# Property Standards
§ 1800.312
Federally-owned and exempt property.
Under the authority of the Chiles Act, 31 U.S.C. 6301 to 6308, NASA has decided to vest title to tangible personal property acquired with Federal funds in nonprofit institutions of higher education and nonprofit organizations whose primary purpose is conducting scientific research without further obligation to NASA, including reporting requirements. Award recipients that are not nonprofit institutions of higher education or nonprofit organizations whose primary purpose is conducting scientific research shall adhere to regulations at 2 CFR 200.312 through 200.316.
[85 FR 71817, Nov. 12, 2020]
§ 1800.315
Intangible property.
Due to the substantial involvement on the part of NASA under a cooperative agreement, intellectual property may be produced by Federal employees and NASA contractors tasked to perform NASA assigned activities. Title to intellectual property created under the
cooperative agreement by NASA or its contractors will initially vest with the creating party or parties. Certain rights may be exchanged with the recipient.
PARTS 1801-1879 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1880

# PART 1880—NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
Sec.
1880.10
What does this part do?
1880.20
Does this part apply to me?
1880.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?

# Subpart A—General
1880.137
Who in NASA may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
1880.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
1880.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
1880.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
Subparts E-J [Reserved]

# Authority:
Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327; E.O. 12549, 3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189; E.O. 12689, 3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235; 42 U.S.C. 2473(c)(1).

# Source:
72 FR 19783, Apr. 20, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1880.10
What does this part do?
This part adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this part, as the NASA policies and procedures for nonprocurement debarment and suspension. It thereby gives regulatory effect for NASA to the OMB guidance as supplemented by this part. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189), Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Section 2455, Public Law 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327).
§ 1880.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 (see table at 2 CFR 180.100(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Participant or principal in a “covered transaction” (see subpart B of 2 CFR part 180 and the definition of “nonprocurement transaction” at 2 CFR 180.970);
(b) Respondent in a NASA suspension or debarment action;
(c) NASA debarment or suspension official; or
(d) NASA grants officer, agreements officer, or other official authorized to enter into any type of nonprocurement transaction that is a covered transaction.
§ 1880.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
The NASA policies and procedures that you must follow are the policies and procedures specified in each applicable section of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as that section is supplemented by the section in this part with the same section number. The contracts that are covered transactions, for example, are specified by section 220 of the OMB guidance (
i.e.
, 2 CFR 180.220) as supplemented by section 220 in this part (
i.e.
, § 1880.220). For any section of OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR 180 that has no corresponding section in this part, NASA policies and procedures are those in the OMB guidance.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1880.137
Who in NASA may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
The Chief Acquisition Officer has the authority to grant an exception to let
an excluded person participate in a covered transaction, as provided in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.135.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 1880.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?
NASA extends coverage of nonprocurement suspension and debarment requirements beyond first-tier procurement contracts under a covered nonprocurement action, to all lower tier subcontracts, at all dollar values, consistent with OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.220(c) and the figure in the appendix at 2 CFR part 180. NASA does not permit subcontracting to suspended or debarred entities at any tier, at any dollar amount.
[78 FR 13211, Feb. 27, 2013]

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
§ 1880.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
You as a participant must include a term or condition in lower-tier transactions requiring lower-tier participants to comply with subpart C of the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this subpart.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 1880.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
To communicate to a participant the requirements described in 2 CFR 180.435 of the OMB guidance, you must include a term or condition in the transaction that requires the participant's compliance with subpart C of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by subpart C of this part, and requires the participant to include a similar term or condition in lower-tier covered transactions.
Subparts E-J [Reserved]
PART 1881 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1882

# PART 1882—REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE)
Sec.
1882.5
What does this part do?

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
1882.120
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
Subparts B-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
1882.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
1882.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
1882.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Authority:
41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.;
51 U.S.C. 20113(e).

# Source:
79 FR 56487, Sept. 22, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1882.5
What does this part do?
This part adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182, as supplemented by this part, as the NASA policies and procedures for implementing the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701-707, as amended, hereafter referred to as “the Act”) that applies to grants and cooperative agreements. It thereby gives regulatory effect for NASA to the OMB guidance. Further, it supplements the OMB guidance with NASA-specific regulation.
[79 FR 56487, Sept. 22, 2014. Redesignated at 79 FR 62797, Oct. 21, 2014]

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
§ 1882.120
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
This part does not apply to any award for which the Assistant Administrator for Procurement determines that the application of this part would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the laws or regulations of a foreign government.
Subparts B-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
§ 1882.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
A recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Assistant Administrator for Procurement determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart B of this part; or
(b) The number of convictions of the recipient's employees for violating criminal drug statutes in the workplace is large enough to indicate that the recipient has failed to make a good faith effort to provide a drug-free workplace.
§ 1882.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
An individual recipient is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Assistant Administrator for Procurement determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart C of this part; or
(b) The recipient is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
§ 1882.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?
The Assistant Administrator for Procurement (AA) may waive with respect to a particular award, in writing, a suspension of payments under an award or a suspension or termination of an award. The Chief Acquisition Officer (CAO) may approve an award to a suspended or debarred entity if the CAO determines that such a waiver would be in the public interest. These exception authorities cannot be delegated to any other official.
Subpart F [Reserved]
PARTS 1883-1899 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. XIX (1-1-25 Edition)
U.S. Agency for Global Media

# CHAPTER XIX—U.S. AGENCY FOR GLOBAL MEDIA
Part
Page
1900
Uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards
569
1901-1999
[Reserved]
Pt. 1900

# PART 1900—UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
Sec.
1900.1
Adoption of 2 CFR part 200.
1900.2
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 2 CFR part 200

# Source:
89 FR 99696, Dec. 11, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1900.1
Adoption of 2 CFR Part 200.
The United States Agency for Global Media adopts the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards set forth at 2 CFR part 200. Thus, this part gives regulatory effect to the terms of 2 CFR part 200 (as effective October 1, 2024).
§ 1900.2
[Reserved]
PARTS 1901-1999 [Reserved]
2 CFR Ch. XX (1-1-25 Edition)
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission

# CHAPTER XX—UNITED STATES NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
Part
Page
2000
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension
573
2001-2099
[Reserved]
Pt. 2000

# PART 2000—NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
2000.10
What does this part do?
2000.20
Does this part apply to me?
2000.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
2000.135
Who in the Nuclear Regulatory Commission may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
2000.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
2000.330
What method must be used to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers?
Subparts D-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions
2000.930
Debarring official.
2000.1010
Suspending official.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note); E.O. 12549, 51 FR 6370, 3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189; E.O. 12689, 54 FR 34131, 3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235.

# Source:
75 FR 27924, May 19, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 2000.10
What does this part do?
This part promulgates a regulation adopting the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, establishing the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) policies and procedures for nonprocurement debarment and suspension. NRC thereby gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance. It also supplements the OMB guidance by identifying NRC implementing officials and identifying how to pass these requirements through to other entities.
§ 2000.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 (see table at 2 CFR 180.100(b)) apply to:
(a) Participant or principal in a “covered transaction”;
(b) Respondent in an NRC nonprocurement suspension or debarment action;
(c) NRC debarment or suspension official; or
(d) NRC grants officer, agreements officer, or other official authorized to enter into a covered nonprocurement transaction.
§ 2000.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
(a) The NRC policies and procedures that you must follow are the policies and procedures specified in each applicable section of the OMB guidance in Subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, and those in this part. The NRC has closely tracked OMB's numbering scheme. For example, the contracts under a nonprocurement transaction that are covered transactions that are in section 220 of the OMB guidance (
i.e.,
2 CFR 180.220) are found in § 2000.220.
(b) For any section of OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 that has no corresponding section in this part, NRC requirements are those in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 180.
§ 2000.135
Who in the Nuclear Regulatory Commission may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
The Director, Office of Administration or another official designated by the Director, has the authority to grant a written exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction, as provided in guidance at 2 CFR 180.135. The Director or other official designated by the Director shall explain the reason(s) for deviating from the governmentwide policy.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 2000.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?
The NRC nonprocurement suspension and debarment requirements apply
only to first-tier procurement contracts under a covered nonprocurement transaction.

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
§ 2000.330
What method must be used to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers?
A participant in a covered transaction must include a term or condition in any lower-tier covered transaction to require the participant of that transaction to—
(a) Comply with subpart C of the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180; and
(b) Include a similar term or condition in any covered transaction into which it enters at the next lower tier.
Subparts D-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions
§ 2000.930
Debarring official.
The Debarring Official for the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission is the Director, Office of Administration.
§ 2000.1010
Suspending official.
The suspending official for the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission is the Director, Office of Administration.
PARTS 2001-2099 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. XXII (1-1-25 Edition)
Corporation for National and Community Service

# CHAPTER XXII—CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE
Part
Page
2200
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension
577
2205
Implementation of and exemptions to 2 CFR
578
2245
Requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance)
578
2246-2299
[Reserved]
Pt. 2200

# PART 2200—NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
Sec.
2200.10
What does this part do?
2200.20
Does this part apply to me?
2200.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
2200.137
Who in the Corporation for National and Community Service may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
2200.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?
2200.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
2200.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?

# Authority:
Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327; E.O. 12549, 3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189; E.O. 12689, 3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235; 22 U.S.C. 2503(b).

# Source:
72 FR 28826, May 23, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2200.10
What does this part do?
This part adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this part, as the Corporation for National and Community Service policies and procedures for nonprocurement debarment and suspension. It thereby gives regulatory effect for the Corporation for National and Community Service to the OMB guidance as supplemented by this part. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189), Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Section 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327).
§ 2200.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part (see table at 2 CFR 180.100(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Participant or principal in a “covered transaction.” (see subpart B of 2 CFR part 180 and the definition of “nonprocurement transaction” at 2 CFR 180.970.
(b) Respondent in a Corporation for National and Community Service suspension or debarment action;
(c) Corporation for National and Community Service debarment or suspension official; or
(d) Corporation for National and Community Service grants officer, agreements officer, or other official authorized to enter into any type of nonprocurement transaction that is a covered transaction.
§ 2200.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
The Corporation for National and Community Service policies and procedures that you must follow are the policies and procedures specified in each applicable section of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as that section is supplemented by the section in this part with the same section number. The contracts that are covered transactions, for example, are specified by section 220 of the OMB guidance (
i.e.
, 2 CFR 180.220) as supplemented by section 220 in this part (
i.e.
, Sec. 2200.220). For any section of OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 that has no corresponding section in this part, Corporation for National and Community Service policies and procedures are those in the OMB guidance.
§ 2200.137
Who in the Corporation for National and Community Service may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
The Chief Executive Officer (or another official designated by the Chief Executive Officer) has the authority to grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction, as provided in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.135.
§ 2200.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?
Although the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.220(c) allows a Federal agency to do so (also see optional lower tier coverage in the figure in the appendix to 2 CFR part 180), Corporation for National
and Community Service does not extend coverage of nonprocurement suspension and debarment requirements beyond first-tier procurement contracts under a covered nonprocurement transaction.
§ 2200.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
You as a participant must include a term or condition in lower-tier transactions requiring lower-tier participants to comply with Subpart C of the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180.
§ 2200.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
To communicate to a participant the requirements described in 2 CFR 180.435 of the OMB guidance, you as an agency official must include a term or condition in the transaction that requires the participant's compliance with subpart C of 2 CFR part 180, and requires the participant to include a similar term or condition in lower-tier covered transactions.
Pt. 2205

# PART 2205—IMPLEMENTATION OF AND EXEMPTIONS TO 2 CFR
Sec.
2205.100
Adoption of 2 CFR part 200.
2205.201
Use of grant agreements (including fixed amount awards), cooperative agreements, and contracts.
2205.306
Cost sharing or matching.
2205.332
Fixed amount subawards.
2205.414
Indirect (F
A) costs.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 12571(d), 12571(e)(2)(B), 12581(l), 12581a(a), 12616(c)(2), 12651c(c), 12651d(h), 12651g(b), 12653(a), 12653(h), 12653o(a), and 12657(a); 2 CFR part 200; 45 CFR 2521.95, and 2540.110.

# Source:
79 FR 76076, Dec. 19, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2205.100
Adoption of 2 CFR Part 200.
Under the authority listed above, the Corporation for National and Community Service adopts the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB) Guidance in 2 CFR part 200, except as specified in this part. Thus, this part gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance and supplements the guidance for recipients of awards from the Corporation.
§ 2205.201
Use of grant agreements (including fixed amount awards), cooperative agreements, and contracts.
(a) The Corporation will determine the appropriate instrument in accordance with its authorities under the national service laws, and in accordance with the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act (31 U.S.C. 6301-6308), as appropriate.
(b) The Corporation and pass through entities may also provide fixed amount awards in the manner and in the amounts permitted under the national service laws.
§ 2205.306
Cost sharing or matching.
(a) Shared costs or matching funds must meet the criteria of 2 CFR 200.306(b), with the exception of 2 CFR 200.306(b)(5). Federal funds from other agencies may be used as match or cost sharing as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 12571(e) under the national service laws.
§ 2205.332
Fixed amount subawards.
Fixed amount subawards may be made in the manner and in amounts determined under the national service laws, as authorized by the Corporation, without respect to the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
§ 2205.414
Indirect (F
A) costs.
Administrative costs for programs funded under subtitles B and C of the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended, shall be subject to 45 CFR 2521.95 and 2540.110.
Pt. 2245

# PART 2245—REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE)
Sec.
2245.10
What does this part do?
2245.20
Does this part apply to me?
2245.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
2245.225
Whom in the Corporation does a recipient other than an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
2245.300
Whom in the Corporation does a recipient who is an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Agency Awarding Officials
2245.400
What method do I use as an agency awarding official to obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with the OMB guidance?

# Subpart E—Violations of this Part and Consequences
2245.500
Who in the Corporation determines that a recipient other than an individual violated the requirements of this part?
2245.505
Who in the Corporation determines that a recipient who is an individual violated the requirements of this part?
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Authority:
41 U.S.C. 701-707; 42 U.S.C. 12644.

# Source:
75 FR 22206, Apr. 28, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2245.10
What does this part do?
This part requires that the award and administration of the Corporation's grants and cooperative agreements comply with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance implementing the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701-707, as amended, hereafter referred to as “the Act”) that applies to grants. It thereby—
(a) Gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance (Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182) for the Corporation's grants and cooperative agreements; and
(b) Establishes the Corporation's policies and procedures for compliance with the Act that are the same as those of other Federal agencies, in conformance with the requirement in 41 U.S.C. 705 for Government-wide implementing regulations.
§ 2245.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182 (see table at 2 CFR 182.115(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Recipient of a Corporation grant or cooperative agreement; or
(b) A Corporation awarding official.
§ 2245.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
(a)
General.
You must follow the policies and procedures specified in applicable sections of the OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(b)
Specific sections of OMB guidance that this part supplements.
In implementing the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 182, this part supplements four sections of the guidance, as shown in the following table. For each of those sections, you must follow the policies and procedures in the OMB guidance, as supplemented by this part.
Section of OMB guidance
Section in this part where
supplemented
What the supplementation clarifies
(1) 2 CFR 182.225(a)
§ 2245.225
Whom in the Corporation a recipient other than an individual must notify if an employee is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute in the workplace.
(2) 2 CFR 182.300(b)
§ 2245.300
Whom in the Corporation a recipient who is an individual must notify if he or she is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
(3) 2 CFR 182.500
§ 2245.500
Who in the Corporation is authorized to determine that a recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(4) 2 CFR 182.505
§ 2245.505
Who in the Corporation is authorized to determine that a recipient who is an individual is in violation of the requirements of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(c)
Sections of the OMB guidance that this part does not supplement.
For any section of OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182 that is not listed in paragraph (b) of this section, the Corporation's policies and procedures are the same as those in the OMB guidance.
Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
§ 2245.225
Whom in the Corporation does a recipient other than an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?
A recipient other than an individual that is required under 2 CFR 182.225(a) to notify Federal agencies about an employee's conviction for a criminal drug offense must notify the Corporation's awarding official or other designee.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
§ 2245.300
Whom in the Corporation does a recipient who is an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?
A recipient who is an individual and is required under 2 CFR 182.300(b) to notify Federal agencies about a conviction for a criminal drug offense must notify the Corporation's awarding official or other designee.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Agency Awarding Officials
§ 2245.400
What method do I use as an agency awarding official to obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with the OMB guidance?
To obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with applicable requirements in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 182, you must obtain each recipient's agreement, as a condition of the award, to comply with the requirements in subpart B (or subpart C, if the recipient is an individual) of 2245, which adopts the Government-wide implementation (2 CFR part 182) of sec. 5152-5158 of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-690, Title V, Subtitle D; 41 U.S.C. 701-707).

# Subpart E—Violations of this Part and Consequences
§ 2245.500
Who in the Corporation determines that a recipient other than an individual violated the requirements of this part?
The Corporation's Chief Executive Officer or designee is authorized to make the determination under 2 CFR 182.500.
§ 2245.505
Who in the Corporation determines that a recipient who is an individual violated the requirements of this part?
The Corporation's Chief Executive Officer or designee is authorized to make the determination under 2 CFR 182.500.
Subpart F [Reserved]
PARTS 2246-2299 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. XXIII (1-1-25 Edition)
Social Security Administration

# CHAPTER XXIII—SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
Part
Page
2300
Uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards
583
2301-2335
[Reserved]
2336
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension
583
2339
Requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance)
584
2340-2399
[Reserved]
Pt. 2300

# PART 2300—UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 2 CFR part 200, and as noted in specific sections.

# Source:
79 FR 76078, Dec. 19, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2300.10
Applicable regulations.
The Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards set forth in 2 CFR part 200 shall apply to the Social Security Administration.
§§ 2300.11-2300.2335
[Reserved]
PARTS 2301-2335 [RESERVED]
Pt. 2336

# PART 2336—NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
Sec.
2336.10
What does this part do?
2336.20
Does this part apply to me?
2336.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?

# Subpart A—General
2336.137
Who in the SSA may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
2336.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
2336.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
2336.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
Subparts E-J [Reserved]

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5); Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327; E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189); E.O. 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235).

# Source:
72 FR 46140, Aug. 17, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2336.10
What does this part do?
This part adopts the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this part, as the SSA policies and procedures for nonprocurement debarment and suspension. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189), Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Section 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327).
§ 2336.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 (see table at 2 CFR 180.100(b)) apply to you if you are a—
(a) Participant or principal in a “covered transaction” (see subpart B of 2 CFR part 180 and the definition of “nonprocurement transaction” at 2 CFR 180.970);
(b) Respondent in an SSA suspension or debarment action;
(c) SSA debarment or suspension official; or
(d) SSA grants officer, agreements officer, or other official authorized to enter into any type of nonprocurement transaction that is a covered transaction.
§ 2336.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
The SSA policies and procedures that you must follow are the policies and procedures specified in each applicable section of the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by the section in this part with the same section number. The contracts that are covered transactions, for example, are specified by section 220 of the OMB guidance (i.e., 2 CFR 180.220), as supplemented by section 220 in this part (i.e., § 2336.220). For
any section of OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR 180 that has no corresponding section in this part, SSA policies and procedures are those in the OMB guidance.

# Subpart A—General
§ 2336.137
Who in the SSA may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
(a) Within the Social Security Administration, the Commissioner or the designated agency debarment official may grant an exception permitting an excluded person to participate in a particular covered transaction. If the Commissioner or the designated agency debarment official grants an exception, the exception must be in writing and state the reason(s) for deviating from the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.135.
(b) An exception granted by one agency for an excluded person does not extend to the covered transactions of another agency.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 2336.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?
Although the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.220(c) allows a Federal agency to do so (also see option lower tier coverage in the figure in the appendix to 2 CFR part 180), SSA does not extend coverage of nonprocurement suspension and debarment requirements beyond first-tier procurement contracts under a covered nonprocurement transaction.

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
§ 2336.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
You as a participant must include a term or condition in lower-tier transactions requiring lower-tier participants to comply with subpart C of the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this subpart.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 2336.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
To communicate to a participant the requirements described in 2 CFR 180.435 of the OMB guidance, you must include a term or condition in the transaction that requires the participant's compliance with subpart C of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by subpart C of this part, and requires the participant to include a similar term or condition in lower-tier covered transactions.
Subparts E-J [Reserved]
Pt. 2339

# PART 2339—REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE)
Sec.
2339.10
What does this part do?
2339.20
Does this part apply to me?
2339.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
2339.225
Who in the Social Security Administration does a recipient other than an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Agency Awarding Officials
2339.400
What method do I use as an agency awarding official to obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with the OMB guidance?

# Subpart E—Violations of this Part and Consequences
2339.500
Who in the Social Security Administration determines that a recipient other than an individual violated the requirements of this part?
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Authority:
41 U.S.C. 701-707.

# Source:
75 FR 31274, June 3, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2339.10
What does this part do?
This part requires that the award and administration of Social Security Administration (SSA) grants and cooperative agreements comply with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance implementing the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701-707, as amended, hereafter referred to as “the Act”) that applies to grants. It thereby—
(a) Gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance (subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182) for SSA's grants and cooperative agreements; and
(b) Establishes SSA's policies and procedures for compliance with the Act that are the same as those of other Federal agencies, in conformance with the requirement in 41 U.S.C. 705 for Government-wide implementing regulations.
§ 2339.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of the OMB guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182 (see table at 2 CFR 182.115(b)) apply to you if you are—
(a) A recipient of an SSA grant or cooperative agreement; or
(b) An SSA awarding official.
§ 2339.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?
(a)
General.
You must follow the policies and procedures specified in applicable sections of the OMB guidance in Subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(b)
Specific sections of OMB guidance that this part supplements.
In implementing the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 182, this part supplements four sections of the guidance, as shown in the following table.
Section of OMB guidance in 2 CFR
Section in this part where supplemented, 2 CFR
What the supplementation clarifies
(1) 182.225(a)
§ 2339.225
Who in SSA a recipient other than an individual must notify if an employee is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute in the workplace.
(2) 182.300(b)
§ 2339.300
Who in SSA a recipient who is an individual must notify if he or she is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
(3) 182.500
§ 2339.500
Who in SSA is authorized to determine that a recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(4) 182.505
§ 2339.505
Who in SSA is authorized to determine that a recipient who is an individual is in violation of the requirements of 2 CFR part 182, as implemented by this part.
(c)
Sections of the OMB guidance that this part does not supplement.
Our policies and procedures are the same as those in the OMB guidance for any section not included in the table in paragraph (b) of this section.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
§ 2339.225
Who in the Social Security Administration does a recipient other than an individual notify about a criminal drug conviction?
A recipient other than an individual that is required under 2 CFR 182.225(a) to notify Federal agencies about an employee's conviction for a criminal drug offense must notify the Commissioner of Social Security or designee.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Agency Awarding Officials
§ 2339.400
What method do I use as an agency awarding official to obtain a recipient's agreement to comply with the OMB guidance?
You must include the following term or condition in the award:
Drug-free workplace.
You, as the recipient, must comply with drug-free workplace requirements in Subpart B,
which adopts the Government-wide implementation (2 CFR part 182) of sec. 5152-5158 of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-690, Title V, Subtitle D; 41 U.S.C. 701-707).

# Subpart E—Violations of this Part and Consequences
§ 2339.500
Who in the Social Security Administration determines that a recipient other than an individual violated the requirements of this part?
The Commissioner of Social Security or designee will make the determination.
Subpart F [Reserved]
PARTS 2340-2399 [RESERVED]
2 CFR Ch. XXIV (1-1-25 Edition)
Department of Housing and Urban Development

# CHAPTER XXIV—DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Part
Page
2400
Uniform administrative requirements, cost principles and audit requirements for Federal awards
589
2401-2423
[Reserved]
2424
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension
589
2429
Requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance)
596
2430-2499
[Reserved]
Pt. 2400

# PART 2400—UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d); 2 CFR part 200.

# Source:
79 FR 76078, Dec. 19, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2400.101
Applicable regulations.
Unless excepted under 24 CFR chapters I through IX, the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, set forth in 2 CFR part 200, shall apply to Federal Awards made by the Department of Housing and Urban Development to non-Federal entities.
PARTS 2401-2423 [RESERVED]
Pt. 2424

# PART 2424—NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
Sec.
2424.10
What does this part do?
2424.20
Does this part apply to me?
2424.30
What policies and procedures must I follow?

# Subpart A—General
2424.137
Who in HUD may grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
2424.220
What contracts and subcontracts, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.220, are covered transactions?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions
2424.300
What must I do before I enter into a covered transaction with another person at the next lower tier (HUD supplement to governmentwide definition at 2 CFR 180.300)?
2424.332
What methods must I use to pass requirements down to participants at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
2424.437
What method do I use to communicate to a participant the requirements described in the OMB guidance at 2 CFR 180.435?
Subparts E-F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Suspension
2424.747
Who conducts fact finding for HUD suspensions?

# Subpart H—Debarment
2424.842
Who conducts fact finding for HUD debarments?

# Subpart I—Definitions
2424.952
Hearing officer.
2424.970
Nonprocurement transaction (HUD supplement to governmentwide definition at 2 CFR 180.970).
2424.995
Principal (HUD supplement to governmentwide definition at 2 CFR 180.995).
2424.1017
Ultimate beneficiary.

# Subpart J—Limited Denial of Participation
2424.1100
What is a limited denial of participation?
2424.1105
Who may issue a limited denial of participation?
2424.1110
When may a HUD official issue a limited denial of participation?
2424.1115
When does a limited denial of participation take effect?
2424.1120
How long may a limited denial of participation last?
2424.1125
How does a limited denial of participation start?
2424.1130
How may I contest my limited denial of participation?
2424.1135
Do Federal agencies coordinate limited denial of participation actions?
2424.1140
What is the scope of a limited denial of participation?
2424.1145
May HUD impute the conduct of one person to another in a limited denial of participation?
2424.1150
What is the effect of a suspension or debarment on a limited denial of participation?
2424.1155
What is the effect of a limited denial of participation on a suspension or a debarment?
2424.1160
May a limited denial of participation be terminated before the term of the limited denial of participation expires?
2424.1165
How is a limited denial of participation reported?

# Authority:
Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327; E.O. 12549, 3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189; E.O. 12689, 3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235.

# Source:
72 FR 73487, Dec. 27, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2424.10
What does this part do?
In this part, HUD adopts, as HUD policies, procedures, and requirements for nonprocurement debarment and suspension, the OMB guidance in subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by this part. This adoption thereby gives regulatory effect for HUD to the OMB guidance, as supplemented by this part. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189), Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Section 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327).
§ 2424.20
Does this part apply to me?
This part and, through this part, pertinent portions of subparts A through I of 2 CFR part 180 (see table at 2 CFR 180.100(b)), apply to you if you are a—
(a) Participant or principal in a “covered transaction” (see subpart B of 2 CFR part 180 and the definition of “nonprocurement transaction” at 2 CFR 180.970, as supplemented by § 2424.970 of this part);
