on components that support the production, processing, vertical integration, or marketing of agricultural products. If the agricultural producer's operation is in a non-rural area, then the Energy Audit or REDA can only be for RES or EEI components of the business operation that are directly related to and their use and purpose is limited to the agricultural production operation, such as vertically integrated operations, and are part of and co-located with the agricultural production operation.
(d) The EA or REDA must be provided to a recipient in a State.
(e) The applicant must have a place of business in a State.
(f) The applicant is cautioned against taking any actions or incurring any obligations prior to the Agency completing the environmental review that would either limit the range of alternatives to be considered or that would have an adverse effect on the environment, such as the initiation of construction. If the applicant takes any such actions or incurs any such obligations, it could result in project ineligibility.
§ 4280.151
Ineligible projects.
Ineligible projects for EA and REDA grants include, but are not limited to:
(a) Research related projects.
(b) Feasibility studies of any nature.
(c) Projects where funding is not targeted directly to assisting agricultural producers or rural small businesses.
(d) Projects to develop computer software or programs.
(e) Projects where 50 percent or more of the costs are in-eligible or where project costs as defined in the application do not meet the definition of providing energy audits or renewable energy development assistance.
(f) Projects which propose to provide energy audits or renewable energy development assistant for residential purposes.
§ 4280.152
Grant funding for Energy Audit and Renewable Energy Development Assistance.
(a)
Maximum grant amount.
The maximum aggregate amount of EA and REDA grants awarded to any one recipient under this subpart cannot exceed $100,000 in a Federal fiscal year. Grant funds awarded for EA and REDA projects may be used only to pay eligible project costs, as described in paragraph (b) of this section. Ineligible project costs are listed in paragraph (c) of this section. Provisions for EA applications are listed in paragraph (d)of this section.
(b)
Eligible project costs.
Eligible project costs for EA and REDA are those costs incurred after the date a complete application has been received by the Agency and that are directly related to conducting and promoting EA and REDA, which include but are not limited to:
(1) Salaries;
(2) Travel expenses;
(3) Office supplies (
e.g.,
paper, pens, file folders); and
(4) Expenses charged as a direct cost or as an indirect cost of up to a maximum of 5 percent for administering the grant.
(c)
Ineligible project costs.
Ineligible project costs for EA and REDA grants include, but are not limited to:
(1) Payment for any construction-related activities;
(2) Purchase or lease of equipment;
(3) Payment of any judgment or debt owed to the United States;
(4) Any goods or services provided by a person or entity who has a conflict of interest as provided in § 4280.106;
(5) Any costs of preparing the application package for funding under this subpart; and
(6) Funding of political or lobbying activities.
(7) Funding to train individuals to become qualified to perform EA or REDA assistance.
(8) Payment or waiver of student tuition.
(d)
EA.
A grantee that conducts energy audits must require that, as a condition of providing the EA assistance, the agricultural producer or rural small business pay at least 25 percent of the cost of the energy audit. Further, the amount paid by the agricultural producer or rural small business will be retained by the grantee as a contribution towards the cost of the energy audit and considered program income. The grantee may use the program income to further the objectives
of their project or EA services offered during the grant period in accordance with Departmental Regulations. The 25% to be paid by an agricultural producer or rural small business does not count towards the commitment of funds scoring criteria noted in 4280.155(f).
§ 4280.153
EA and REDA grant applications—content.
(a) Unless otherwise specified in a
Federal Register
notice, applicants may only submit one EA grant application and one REDA grant application each Federal fiscal year. No combination (EA and REDA) applications will be accepted.
(b) Applicants must submit complete applications consisting of the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section, except that paragraph (b)(3), is optional. Applications will be evaluated based only on information submitted by the applicant in the application.
(1) Form SF-424.
(2) Form SF-424A, “Budget Information—Non Construction Programs.”
(3) Identify the ethnicity, race, and gender of the applicant. This information is optional and is not required for a complete application.
(4) Certification that the applicant is a legal entity in good standing (as applicable) and operating in accordance with the laws of the State(s) or Tribe where the applicant has a place of business.
(5) The applicant must identify whether or not the applicant has a known relationship or association with an Agency employee. If there is a known relationship, the applicant must identify each Agency employee with whom the applicant has a known relationship.
(6) A proposed scope of work to include the following items:
(i) A brief summary including a project title describing the proposed project;
(ii) Goals of the proposed project;
(iii) Geographic scope or service area of the proposed project and the method and rationale used to select the service area;
(iv) Identification of the specific needs for the service area and the target audience to be served. The number of agricultural producers and/or rural small businesses to be served must be identified including name and contact information, if available, as well as the method and rationale used to select the agricultural producers and/or rural small businesses;
(v) Timeline describing the proposed tasks to be accomplished and the schedule for implementation of each task. Include whether organizational staff, consultants, or contractors will be used to perform each task. If a project is located in multiple States, resources must be sufficient to complete all projects;
(vi) Marketing strategies to include a discussion on how the applicant will be marketing and providing outreach activities to the proposed service area ensuring that agricultural producers and/or rural small businesses are served;
(vii) Applicant's experience as follows:
(A) If applying for a REDA grant, the applicant's experience in completing similar REDA activities, such as renewable energy site assessments and renewable energy technical assistance provided directly to agricultural producers and rural small businesses, including the number of similar projects the applicant has performed and the number of years the applicant has been performing a similar service.
(B) If applying for an EA grant, the number of energy audits the applicant has completed and the number of years the applicant has been performing those services;
(C) For all applicants, the amount of experience in administering EA, REDA, or similar activities as applicable to the purpose of the proposed project. Provide discussion if the applicant has any existing programs that can demonstrate the achievement of energy savings or energy generation with the agricultural producers and/or rural small businesses the applicant has served. If the applicant has received one or more awards within the last 5 years in recognition of its renewable energy, energy savings, or energy-based technical assistance, please describe the achievement;
(viii) Itemized budget; and
(ix) Identify the amount of matching funds and other funds and the source(s) the applicant is proposing to use for the project. Provide written commitments for matching funds and other funds at the time the application is submitted.
(A) If financial resources come from the applicant, documentation may include a bank statement that demonstrates availability of funds.
(B) If a third party is providing financial assistance to the project, the applicant must submit a commitment letter signed by an authorized official of the third party. The letter must be specific to the project, identify the dollar amount being provided and any applicable rates and terms.
§ 4280.154
Evaluation of EA and REDA grant applications.
The Agency will evaluate EA and REDA grant applications, based only upon information submitted in the application, to determine if:
(a) The application is complete, as defined in § 4280.103 and as per § 4280.153;
(b) The applicant is eligible according to § 4280.149;
(c) The project is eligible according to § 4280.150 and 4280.151, including 50% or more of proposed project costs are eligible; and
(d) Grant funding provisions according to § 4280.152 are met.
§ 4280.155
Scoring EA and REDA grant applications.
The Agency will score each EA and REDA application using the criteria specified in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, with a maximum score of 100 points possible. Unless otherwise altered via a
Federal Register
notification, the project must score a minimum of 40 points to be eligible to compete for funding.
(a)
Geographic scope of project in relation to identified need.
A maximum of 20 points can be awarded.
(1) If the applicant's proposed or existing service area is state-wide or includes all or parts of multiple states, and the scope of work has identified needs throughout that service area, 20 points will be awarded.
(2) If the applicant's proposed or existing service area consists of multiple counties in a single state and the scope of work has identified needs throughout that service area, 15 points will be awarded.
(3) If the applicant's service area consists of a single county or municipality and the scope of work has identified needs throughout that service area, 10 points will be awarded.
(b)
Number of agricultural producers/rural small businesses to be served.
A maximum of 20 points will be awarded for this criterion based on the proposed number of ultimate recipients to be assisted and if the applicant has provided the names and contact information for the ultimate recipients to be assisted.
(1) If the applicant plans to provide EA or REDA to:
(i) Up to 10 ultimate recipients, 2 points will be awarded.
(ii) Between 11 and up to and including 25 ultimate recipients, 5 points will be awarded.
(iii) More than 25 ultimate recipients, 10 points will be awarded.
(2) If the applicant provides a list with at least 50 percent of the total number of proposed ultimate recipients ready to be assisted, including their name and contact information, an additional 10 points may be awarded.
(c)
Marketing and outreach plan.
A maximum of 5 points will be awarded for this criterion. If the scope of work included in the application provides a satisfactory discussion of each of the following criteria, one point for each can be awarded.
(1) The goals of the project;
(2) Identified need;
(3) Targeted ultimate recipients;
(4) Timeline and action plan; and
(5) Marketing and outreach strategies and supporting data for strategies.
(d)
Applicant's organizational experience in completing the EA or REDA proposed activity.
A maximum of 25 points will be awarded for this criterion based on the experience of the organization in providing EA or REDA as applicable to the purpose of the proposed project. The organization must have been in business and provided services for the number of years as identified in the paragraphs below. Experience of contractors proposed in the application to perform the services may be applied to
this scoring criteria as long as the experience relates to the same type of activity,
e.g.,
energy audit experience for an EA application.
(1) More than 10 years of experience, 25 points will be awarded.
(2) At least 5 years and up to and including 10 years of experience, 20 points will be awarded.
(3) At least 2 years and up to and including 5 years of experience, 10 points will be awarded.
(4) Less than 2 years of experience, no points will be awarded.
(e)
Potential of project to produce energy savings or generation and its attending environmental benefits.
A maximum of 10 points will be awarded for this criterion under both paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section
(1) If the applicant (does not include entities the applicant will contract with) has an existing program that can demonstrate the achievement of energy savings or energy generation with the agricultural producers and/or rural small businesses it has served, 5 points will be awarded.
(2) If the applicant (does not include entities the applicant will contract with) provides evidence that it has received one or more awards (
e.g.,
recognition, not funding awards) within the last 5 years in recognition of its renewable energy, energy savings, or energy-based technical assistance, up to a maximum of 5 points will be awarded as follows:
(i) International/national—3 points for each.
(ii) Regional/State—2 points for each.
(iii) Local—1 point for each.
(f)
Commitment of funds.
A maximum of 20 points will be awarded for this criterion if written documentation from each source providing matching funds and other funds are submitted with the application. Compare eligible commitment of funds to the amount of grant requested to derive percentage to be used for scoring.
(1) If the applicant proposes to match 50 percent or more of the grant funds requested, 20 points will be awarded.
(2) If the applicant proposes to match 20 percent or more but less than 50 percent of the grant funds requested, 15 points will be awarded.
(3) If the applicant proposes to match 5 percent or more but less than 20 percent of the grant funds requested, 10 points will be awarded.
(4) If the applicant proposes to match less than 5 percent of the grant funds requested, no points will be awarded.
§ 4280.156
Selecting EA and REDA grant applications for award.
Unless otherwise provided for in a
Federal Register
notice, EA and REDA grant applications will be processed in accordance with this section. EA and REDA grant funding is maintained at the National Office and applications compete for funds only once in a nationwide competition.
(a)
Application competition.
Complete EA and REDA applications received by the Agency by 4:30 p.m. local time on January 31 will be competed against each other. If January 31 falls on a weekend or a Federally observed holiday, the next Federal business day will be considered the last day for receipt of a complete application. Complete applications received after 4:30 p.m. local time on January 31, regardless of the postmark on the application, will be processed in the subsequent fiscal year. Unless otherwise specified in a
Federal Register
notice, the two highest scoring applications from each State, based on the scoring criteria established under § 4280.155, will compete for initial funding. If undersubscribed on eligible applications, the third highest scoring application from each state shall be requested for National Office review and potential competition, ranking and funding, until funds are expended.
(b)
Ranking of applications.
All applications submitted to the National Office under paragraph (a) of this section will be ranked in priority score order. All applications that are ranked and meet the minimum scoring threshold will be considered for selection for funding.
(c)
Selection of applications for funding.
Using the ranking created under paragraph (a) of this section, the Agency will consider the score an application has received compared to the scores of other ranked applications, with higher scoring applications receiving first consideration for funding.
If two or more applications score the same and if remaining funds are insufficient to fund each such application, the Agency will distribute the remaining funds to each such application on a pro-rata basis. At its discretion, the Agency may also elect to redirect unused funds into the RES/EEI program or allow any remaining multi-year funds to be carried over to the next fiscal year rather than funding on a pro-rata basis.
(d)
Handling of ranked applications not funded.
Based on the availability of funding, a ranked application submitted for EA or REDA funds may not be funded. Such ranked applications will not be carried forward into the next Federal fiscal year's competition.
§ 4280.157
[Reserved]
§ 4280.158
Awarding and administering EA and REDA grants.
The Agency will award and administer EA and REDA grants in accordance with Departmental Regulations and with the procedures and requirements specified in § 4280.123, except as specified in paragraphs (a) through (b) of this section.
(a) Instead of complying with § 4280.123(b), the grantee must provide satisfactory evidence to the Agency that all officers of grantee organization authorized to receive and/or disburse Federal funds are covered by such bonding and/or insurance requirements as are normally required by the grantee.
(b) The power purchase agreement specified in § 4280.123 (h) is not required.
§ 4280.159
Servicing EA and REDA grants.
The Agency will service EA and REDA grants in accordance with the requirements specified in Departmental Regulations, the Financial Assistance Agreement, 7 CFR part 3, 7 CFR 1951 Subparts E and O, and the requirements in § 4280.124, except as specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(a)
Grant disbursement.
The Agency will determine, based on the applicable Departmental Regulations, whether disbursement of a grant will be by advance or reimbursement. Form SF-270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement, must be completed by the grantee and submitted to the Agency no more often than monthly to request either advance or reimbursement of funds.
(b)
Semiannual performance reports.
Project performance reports shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives established for that period (
e.g.,
the number of EA performed, number of recipients assisted, and the type of assistance provided for REDA);
(2) A list of recipients, each recipient's location, and each recipient's NAICS code;
(3) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions, if any, that have in the past or will in the future affect attainment of overall project objectives, prevent meeting time schedules or objectives, or preclude the attainment of particular project work elements during established time periods. This disclosure shall be accompanied by a statement of the action taken or planned to resolve the situation;
(4) Objectives and timetable established for the next reporting period.
(c)
Final performance report.
A final performance report will be required with the final Federal financial report within 90 days after project completion. The final performance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.
(1) For EA projects, the final performance report must provide complete information regarding:
(i) The number of audits conducted,
(ii) A list of recipients (agricultural producers and rural small businesses) with each recipient's NAICS code,
(iii) The location of each recipient,
(iv) The cost of each audit and documentation showing that the recipient of the EA provided 25 percent of the cost of the audit, and
(v) The expected energy saved for each audit conducted if the audit is implemented.
(2) For REDA projects, the final performance report must provide complete information regarding:
(i) The number of recipients assisted, and the type of assistance provided,
(ii) A list of recipients with each recipient's NAICS code,
(iii) The location of each recipient, and
(iv) The expected renewable energy that would be generated if the projects were implemented.
(d)
Outcome project performance report.
One year after submittal of the final performance report, the grantee will provide the Agency a final status report on the number of projects that are proceeding with the grantee's recommendations, including the amount of energy saved and the amount of renewable energy generated, as applicable.
§§ 4280.160-4280.165
[Reserved]
§ 4280.166
OMB control number.
The report and recordkeeping requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget and have been assigned OMB control number 0570-0067
Pt. 4280, Sbpt. B, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 4280—Technical Reports for Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) Projects
For all EEI projects with total project costs of more than $80,000, provide the information specified in Sections A and D and in Section B or Section C, as applicable. If the application is for an EEI project with total project costs of $80,000 or less, please see § 4280.120 (b)(3) for the technical report information to be submitted with your application.
If the application is for an EEI project with total project costs of $200,000 and greater, you must conduct an energy audit. However, if the application is for an EEI project with a total project costs of less than $200,000, you may conduct either an energy assessment or an energy audit.
Section A—Project Information.
Describe how all the improvements to or replacement of an existing building and/or equipment meet the requirements of being commercially available. Describe how the design, engineering, testing, and monitoring are sufficient to demonstrate that the proposed project will meet its intended purpose, ensure public safety, and comply with applicable laws, regulations, agreements, permits, codes, and standards. Describe how all equipment required for the EEI(s) is available and able to be procured and delivered within the proposed project development schedule. In addition, present information regarding component warranties and the availability of spare parts.
Section B—Energy audit.
If conducting an energy audit, provide the following information.
(1)
Situation report.
Provide a narrative description of the existing building and/or equipment, its energy system(s) and usage, and activity profile. Also include average price per unit of energy (electricity, natural gas, propane, fuel oil, renewable energy, etc.) paid by the customer for the most recent 12 months, or an average of 2, 3, 4, or 5 years, for the building and equipment being audited. Any energy conversion should be based on use rather than source.
(2)
Potential improvement description.
Provide a narrative summary of the potential improvement and its ability to reduce energy consumption or improve energy efficiency, including a discussion of reliability and durability of the improvements.
(i) Provide preliminary specifications for critical components.
(ii) Provide preliminary drawings of project layout, including any related structural changes.
(iii) Identify significant changes in future related operations and maintenance costs.
(iv) Describe explicitly how outcomes will be measured.
(3)
Technical analysis.
Give consideration to the interactions among the potential improvements and the current energy system(s).
(i) For the most recent 12 months, or an average of 2, 3, 4, or 5 years, prior to the date the application is submitted, provide both the total amount and the total cost of energy used for the original building and/or equipment, as applicable, for each improvement identified in the potential project. In addition, provide for each improvement identified in the potential project an estimate of the total amount of energy that would have been used and the total cost that would have been incurred if the proposed project were in operation for this same time period.
(ii) Calculate all direct and attendant indirect costs of each improvement;
(iii) Rank potential improvements measures by cost-effectiveness; and
(iv) Provide an estimate of Simple Payback, including all calculations, documentation, and any assumptions.
(4)
Qualifications of the auditor.
Provide the qualifications of the person which completed the energy audit.
Section C—Energy Assessment.
If conducting an Energy Assessment, provide the following information.
(1)
Situation report.
Provide a narrative description of the existing building and/or equipment, its energy system(s) and usage, and activity profile. Also include average
price per unit of energy (electricity, natural gas, propane, fuel oil, renewable energy, etc.) paid by the customer for the most recent 12 months, or an average of 2, 3, 4, or 5 years, for the building and equipment being evaluated. Any energy conversion shall be based on use rather than source.
(2)
Potential improvement description.
Provide a narrative summary of the potential improvement and its ability to reduce energy consumption or improve energy efficiency.
(3)
Technical analysis.
Giving consideration to the interactions among the potential improvements and the current energy system(s), provide the information specified in section C(3)(i) through (iii) of this appendix.
(i) For the most recent 12 months, or an average of 2, 3, 4, or 5 years, prior to the date the application is submitted, provide both the total amount and the total cost of energy used for the original building and/or equipment, as applicable, for each improvement identified in the potential project. In addition, provide for each improvement identified in the potential project an estimate of the total amount of energy that would have been used and the total cost that would have been incurred if the proposed project were in operation for this same time period.
(ii) Document baseline data compared to projected consumption, together with any explanatory notes on source of the projected consumption data. When appropriate, show before-and-after data in terms of consumption per unit of production, time, or area.
(iii) Provide an estimate of Simple Payback, including all calculations, documentation, and any assumptions.
(4)
Qualifications of the assessor.
Provide the qualifications of the person that completed the assessment. If the energy assessment for a project with total project costs of $80,000 or less is not conducted by Energy Auditor or Energy Assessor, then the person must have at least 3 years of experience and completed at least five energy assessments or energy audits on similar type projects.
Section D—Qualifications.
Provide a resume or other evidence of the contractor or installer's qualifications and experience with the proposed EEI technology. Any contractor or installer with less than 2 years of experience may be required to provide additional information in order for the Agency to determine if they are qualified installer/contractor.
Pt. 4280, Sbpt. B, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 4280—Technical Reports for Renewable Energy System (RES) Projects With Total Project Costs of Less Than $200,000, but More Than $80,000
Provide the information specified in Sections A through D for each technical report prepared under this appendix. A renewable energy site assessment may be used in lieu of Sections A through C if the renewable energy site assessment contains the information requested in Sections A through C. In such instances, the technical report would consist of Section D and the renewable energy site assessment.

# Note:
If the total project cost for the RES project is $80,000 or less, this appendix does not apply. Instead, for such projects, please provide the information specified in § 4280.120 (b)(4).
Section A—Project Description.
Provide a description of the project, including its intended purpose and a summary of how the project will be constructed and installed. Describe how the system meets the definition of commercially available. Identify the project's location and describe the project site.
Section B—Resource Assessment.
Describe the quality and availability of the renewable resource to the project. Identify the amount of renewable energy generated that will be generated once the proposed project is operating at its steady state operating level. If applicable, also identify the percentage of energy being replaced by the system.
If the application is for a bioenergy project, provide documentation that demonstrates that any and all woody biomass feedstock from National Forest System land or public lands cannot be used as a higher value wood-based product.
Section C—Project Economic Assessment.
Describe the projected financial performance of the proposed project. The description must address total project costs, energy savings, and revenues, including applicable investment and other production incentives accruing from Government entities. Revenues to be considered shall accrue from the sale of energy, offset or savings in energy costs, and byproducts. Provide an estimate of Simple Payback, including all calculations, documentation, and any assumptions.
Section D—Project Construction and Equipment Information.
Describe how the design, engineering, testing, and monitoring are sufficient to demonstrate that the proposed project will meet its intended purpose, ensure public safety, and comply with applicable laws, regulations, agreements, permits, codes, and standards. Describe how all equipment required for the RES is available and able to be procured and delivered within the
proposed project development schedule. In addition, present information regarding component warranties and the availability of spare parts.
Section E—Qualifications of Key Service Providers.
Describe the key service providers, including the number of similar systems installed and/or manufactured previously, professional credentials, licenses, and relevant experience. When specific numbers are not available for similar systems, estimations will be acceptable.
Pt. 4280, Sbpt. B, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart B of Part 4280—Technical Reports for Renewable Energy System (RES) Projects With Total Project Costs of $200,000 and Greater
Provide the information specified in Sections A through G for each technical report prepared under this appendix. Provide the resource assessment under Section C that is applicable to the project. For hybrid projects, technical reports must be prepared for each technology that comprises the hybrid project.
Section A—Qualifications of the Project Team.
Describe the project team, their professional credentials, and relevant experience. The description shall support that the project team key service providers have the necessary professional credentials, licenses, certifications, and relevant experience to develop the proposed project.
Section B—Agreements and Permits.
Describe the necessary agreements and permits (including any for local zoning requirements) required for the project and the anticipated schedule for securing those agreements and permits. For example, interconnection agreements and power purchase agreements are necessary for all renewable energy projects electrically interconnected to the utility grid.
Section C—Resource Assessment.
Describe the quality and availability of the renewable resource and the amount of renewable energy generated through the deployment of the proposed system. For all bioenergy projects, except anaerobic digesters projects, complete Section C.3 of this appendix. For anaerobic digester projects, complete Section C.6 of this appendix.
1.
Wind.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the source of the wind data and the conditions of the wind monitoring when collected at the site or assumptions made when applying nearby wind data to the site.
2.
Solar.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the source of the solar data and assumptions.
3.
Bioenergy/Biomass Project.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the type, quantity, quality, and seasonality of the renewable biomass resource, including harvest and storage, where applicable. Where applicable, also indicate shipping or receiving method and required infrastructure for shipping. For proposed projects with an established resource, provide a summary of the resource. Document that any and all woody biomass feedstock from National Forest System land or public lands cannot be used as a higher value wood-based product.
4.
Geothermal Electric Generation.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the quality of the geothermal resource, including temperature, flow, and sustainability and what conversion system is to be installed. Describe any special handling of cooled geothermal waters that may be necessary. Describe the process for determining the geothermal resource, including measurement setup for the collection of the geothermal resource data. For proposed projects with an established resource, provide a summary of the resource and the specifications of the measurement setup.
5.
Geothermal Direct Generation.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the quality of the geothermal resource, including temperature, flow, and sustainability and what direct use system is to be installed. Describe any special handling of cooled geothermal waters that may be necessary. Describe the process for determining the geothermal resource, including measurement setup for the collection of the geothermal resource data. For proposed projects with an established resource, provide a summary of the resource and the specifications of the measurement setup.
6.
Anaerobic Digester Project/Biogas.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the substrates used as digester inputs, including animal wastes or other Renewable Biomass in terms of type, quantity, seasonality, and frequency of collection. Describe any special handling of feedstock that may be necessary. Describe the process for determining the feedstock resource. Provide either tabular values or laboratory analysis of representative samples that include biodegradability studies to produce gas production estimates for the project on daily, monthly, and seasonal basis. If an anerobic digester project, identify the type of operation (
e.g.,
dairy, swine, layer, etc.), along with breed, herd population size and demographics, and the type of waste collection method and frequency information available. For the biogas produced, identify the type of digester (
e.g.,
mixed,
plug-flow, attached film, covered lagoon, etc.), if applicable, or the method of capture (landfill, sewage waste treatment, etc.) and treatment. Identify the system designer and determine the digester design assumptions such as the number and type of animals, the bedding type and estimated annual quantity used, the manure and wastewater volumes, and the treatment of digester effluent (
e.g.,
none, solids separation by screening, etc. with details including use or method of disposal).
7.
Hydrogen Project.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the type, quantity, quality, and seasonality of the renewable biomass resource. For solar, wind, or geothermal sources of energy used to generate hydrogen, indicate the renewable resource where the hydrogen system is to be installed. Local resource maps may be used as an acceptable preliminary source of renewable resource data. For proposed projects with an established renewable resource, provide a summary of the resource.
8.
Hydroelectric/Ocean Energy Projects.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the quality of the resource, including temperature (if applicable), flow, and sustainability of the resource, including a summary of the resource evaluation process and the specifications of the measurement setup and the date and duration of the evaluation process and proximity to the proposed site. If less than 1 year of data is used, a qualified consultant must provide a detailed analysis of the correlation between the site data and a nearby, long-term measurement site.
(9)
RES with storage components.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the type, quantity, quality, and seasonality of the renewable energy resource, where applicable. Indicate the storage system specifications and the integrity of the system in conjunction with the RES it is integrated with, including application, size, lifetime, response time, capital and maintenance costs associated with the operation as well as the distribution of the stored resource(s).
Section D—Design and Engineering.
Describe the intended purpose of the project and the design, engineering, testing, and monitoring needed for the proposed project. The description shall support that the system will be designed, engineered, tested, and monitored so as to meet its intended purpose, ensure public safety, and comply with applicable laws, regulations, agreements, permits, codes, and standards. In addition, identify that all major equipment is commercially available, including proprietary equipment, and justify how this unique equipment is needed to meet the requirements of the proposed design. In addition, information regarding component warranties and the availability of spare parts must be presented.
Section E—Project Development.
Describe the overall project development method, including the key project development activities and the proposed schedule, including proposed dates for each activity. The description shall identify each significant historical and projected activity, its beginning and end, and its relationship to the time needed to initiate and carry the activity through to successful project completion. The description shall address applicant project development cash flow requirements. Details for equipment procurement and installation shall be addressed in Section F of this appendix.
Section F—Equipment Procurement and Installation.
Describe the availability of the equipment required by the system. The description shall support that the required equipment is available and can be procured and delivered within the proposed project development schedule. Describe the plan for site development and system installation, including any special equipment requirements. In all cases, the system or improvement shall be installed in conformance with manufacturer's specifications and design requirements, and comply with applicable laws, regulations, agreements, permits, codes, and standards.
Section G—Operations and Maintenance.
Describe the operations and maintenance requirements of the system, including major rebuilds and component replacements necessary for the system to operate as designed over its useful life. The warranty must cover and provide protection against both breakdown and a degradation of performance. The performance of the RES or EEI shall be monitored and recorded as appropriate to the specific technology.
Pt. 4280, Sbpt. B, App. D

# Appendix D to Subpart B of Part 4280—Feasibility Study Components
Executive Summary
Provide an overview to describe the nature and scope of the proposed project, including the purpose, project location, design features, capacity, and estimated capital costs. Include a summary of the feasibility determinations made for each applicable component.
Economic
What is it?
Cost benefit analysis.
What are the factors to consider?
Minimum amount of inputs (labor, infrastructure, utilities, renewable resources, feedstocks) to operate successfully.
Contracts in place and contracts to be negotiated, including terms and renewals.
Environmental risks.
Cost of project relative to the increase in revenues or benefits provided.
Overall economic impact of project including new markets created and economic development.
Market
What is it?
Analysis of the current and future market potential, competition, sales or service estimations including current and prospective buyers or users.
What are the factors to consider?
Competition.
Type of project: Service, product or commodity based.
Target market, new versus established.
End user analysis, captive versus competitive.
By-product revenue streams.
Industry risk.
Technical
What is it?
Analyzing the reliability of the technology to be used and/or the analysis of the delivery of goods or services, including transportation, business location, and the need for technology, materials, and labor.
What are the factors to consider?
Commercial availability.
Product and process success record and duplication of results.
Experience of the service providers.
Roads, rail, airport infrastructure.
Need for local transportation.
Labor market.
Availability of materials.
Use, age, and reliability of technology.
Construction risk.
Financial
What is it?
Analysis of the operation to achieve sufficient income, credit, and cashflow to financially sustain the project over the long term and meet all debt obligations.
What are the factors to consider?
Commercial or project underwriting.
Management's assumptions.
Accounting policies.
Source of repayment.
Dependency on other entities.
Equity contribution.
Market demand forecast.
Peer industry comparison.
Cost-accounting system.
Availability of short-term credit.
Adequacy of raw materials and supplies.
Sensitivity analysis.
Management
What is it?
Analysis of the legal structure of the business or operation; ownership, board and management analysis.
What are the factors to consider?
History of the business or organization.
Professional and educational background.
Experience.
Skills.
Qualifications necessary to implement the project.
Recommendation
Conclude with an opinion and recommendation presented by the consultant.
Qualifications
Provide a resume or statement of qualifications of the author of the feasibility study, including prior experience.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program

# Source:
86 FR 26353, May 14, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 4280.301
Purpose and scope.
(a) This subpart contains the policies and procedures by which the Agency will administer the Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program (RMAP). The purpose of the Program is to support the development and ongoing success of rural microentrepreneurs and microenterprises. To accomplish this purpose, the Program will make direct loans and provide grants to selected Microenterprise Development Organizations. Selected Microenterprise Development Organization will use the funds to:
(1) Provide microloans to rural microentrepreneurs and microenterprises;
(2) Provide business-based training and technical assistance to rural microborrowers and potential microborrowers as an essential part of the microlending process;
(3) Perform other such activities as deemed appropriate by the Secretary to ensure the development and ongoing success of rural microenterprises.
(b) The Agency will make direct loans to microlenders for the purpose of providing fixed interest rate microloans to rural microentrepreneurs for business startup and for growing microenterprises in compliance with §§ 4280.311 and 4280.312. Eligible microlenders will also be eligible to receive microlender technical assistance grants to provide technical assistance and training to microenterprises that have received or are seeking a microloan under this program in compliance with § 4280.313.
(c) To allow for extended opportunities for technical assistance and training, the Agency will make technical assistance-only grants to Microenterprise Development Organizations that have sources of funding other than program funds for making or facilitating microloans.
§ 4280.302
Definitions and abbreviations.
(a)
General definitions.
The following definitions apply to the terms used in this subpart.
Administrative expenses.
Those expenses incurred by a Microenterprise Development Organization for the operation of services under this program. Not more than 10 percent of technical assistance grant funds may be used for such expenses.
Agency.
USDA Rural Development, Rural Business-Cooperative Service or its successor organization.
Agricultural production.
The cultivation, growing, or harvesting of plants and crops (including farming), breeding, raising, feeding, or housing of livestock (including ranching).
Applicant.
The legal entity, also referred to as a Microenterprise Development Organization, submitting an application to participate in the program.
Application.
The required forms and documentation submitted by a Microenterprise Development Organization for acceptance into the program.
Award.
The written documentation, executed by the Agency after the application is approved, containing the terms and conditions for provision of financial assistance to the applicant. Financial assistance may constitute a loan or a grant, or both.
Business incubator.
An organization that provides temporary premises at below market rates, technical assistance in developing business or marketing plans, technical services, use of equipment, or other facilities or services to rural microentrepreneurs and microenterprises starting or growing a business. The business incubator may also provide access to capital through direct loans or referrals to loan programs.
Close relative.
Individuals who live in the same household or who are closely related by blood, marriage, or adoption, such as a spouse, domestic partner, parent, child, sibling, aunt, uncle, grandparent, grandchild, niece, nephew, or first cousin.
Default.
The condition that exists when a borrower is not in compliance with the promissory note, the loan and/or grant agreement, or other related documents evidencing the loan from the Agency or the Microenterprise Development Organization.
Delinquency.
Failure by a Microenterprise Development Organization or microborrower to make a scheduled loan payment by the due date or within any grace period as stipulated in the promissory note and loan agreement.
Eligible project cost.
The total cost of a microborrower's project for which a microloan is being sought from a microlender, less any costs identified as ineligible in § 4280.323.
Facilitation of access to capital.
For purposes of this program, facilitation of access to capital means assisting a client of the technical assistance only grantee in obtaining a microloan, whether or not the microloan is wholly or partially capitalized by funds provided under this program.
Federal fiscal year (FY
). The 12-month period beginning October 1 of any given year and ending on September 30 of the following year.
Full-time equivalent employee (FTE).
The Agency uses the Bureau of Labor Statistics definition of full-time jobs as its standard definition. For purposes of this program, a full-time job is a job that has at least 35 hours in a work week. As such, one full-time job with at least 35 hours in a work week equals one FTE; two part-time jobs with combined hours of at least 35 hours in a work week equals one FTE, and three seasonal jobs equals one FTE. If an FTE calculation results in a fraction, it should be rounded up to the next whole number.
Indian tribe.
Means the term as defined in 25 U.S.C. 5304(e).
Loan loss reserve fund (LLRF).
A deposit account that each microlender must establish and maintain in an amount equal to not less than 5 percent of the total amount owed by the microlender under this program to the Agency. This account can be used to pay any shortage in the rural microloan revolving fund caused by delinquencies or losses on microloans.
Microborrower.
A microentrepreneur or microenterprise that has received loans or financial assistance from a microlender under this program in an amount of $50,000 or less.
Microenterprise.
Microenterprise means:
(i) A sole proprietorship located in a rural area, as defined; or
(ii) A business entity located in a rural area, as defined, with not more than 10 full-time-equivalent employees. Such businesses may include any type of legal business that meets local standards of decency, though certain business types may be ineligible as defined in § 4280.323 Business types may also include agricultural producers provided they meet the stipulations in this definition.
Microenterprise development organization (MDO).
A domestic organization that is a non-profit entity; an Indian tribe; or a public institution of higher education with loan or assistance programs for the benefit of rural microentrepreneurs and microenterprises. An MDO will:
(i) Provide training and technical assistance;
(ii) Make microloans or facilitate access to capital or other related services; and
(iii) Have a demonstrated record of delivering services to rural microentrepreneurs, or an effective plan to develop a program to deliver services to rural microentrepreneurs.
Microentrepreneur.
An owner and operator, or prospective owner and operator, of a rural microenterprise who is unable to obtain sufficient training, technical assistance, or credit other than under this section. All microentrepreneurs assisted under this regulation must be located in rural areas.
Microlender.
An MDO that has been approved by the Agency for participation under this subpart to make microloans and provide an integrated program of training and technical assistance to its microborrowers and prospective microborrowers.
Microloan.
A business loan of not more than $50,000 for eligible purposes to a microborrower with a fixed interest rate and a term not to exceed 10 years.
Military personnel.
Individuals, regardless of rank or grade, currently in active United States military service with less than 6 months remaining in their active duty service requirement.
Nonprofit entity.
An entity chartered as a nonprofit entity under State or Tribal Law.
Program.
The Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program (RMAP).
Rural Microloan Revolving Fund (RMRF).
An exclusive account on which the Agency will hold a first lien and from which microloans will be made by the MDO. All payments from microborrowers and reimbursements from the LLRF will be deposited into the RMRF account. Loan payments will be made to the Agency by the microlender from the RMRF.
Rural or rural area.
Any area of a State not in a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, not in the urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, and excluding certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I).In making this determination, the Agency will use the latest decennial census of the United States. The following exclusions apply:
(i) Any area in the urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants that is attached to the urbanized area of a city or town with more than 50,000 inhabitants by a contiguous area of urbanized census blocks that is not more than two census blocks wide. Applicants from such an area should work with their Rural Development State Office to request a determination of whether their project is located in a rural area under this provision.
(ii) For the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the island is considered Rural and eligible except for the San Juan Census Designated Place (CDP) and any other CDP with greater than 50,000 inhabitants. Areas within CDPs with greater than 50,000 inhabitants, other than the San Juan CDP, may be determined to be rural if they are “not urban in character.”
(iii) For the State of Hawaii, all areas within the State are considered rural and eligible except for the Honolulu CDP within the County of Honolulu and any other CDP with greater than 50,000 inhabitants. Areas within CDPs with greater than 50,000 inhabitants, other than the Honolulu CDP, may be determined to be rural if they are “not urban in character.”
(iv) For the purpose of defining a rural area in the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Agency shall determine what constitutes rural and rural area based on available population data.
State.
Any of the 50 States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Technical assistance (TA) and training.
A function performed for the benefit of a private business enterprise or a community which is a problem-solving activity such as market research, product and/or service improvement, feasibility study, worker training programs, etc., to assist in the economic development of a rural area.
Technical assistance grant.
A grant from the Agency, the funds of which are used to provide TA and training.
(b)
Abbreviations.
The following abbreviations apply to the terms used in this subpart.
FTE
—Full-time employee.
FY
—Fiscal year.
LLRF
—Loan loss reserve fund.
MDO
—Microenterprise Development Organization.
RMAP
—Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program.
RMRF
—Rural microloan revolving fund.
TA
—Technical assistance.
[86 FR 26353, May 14, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 38644, June 29, 2022]
§ 4280.303
Exception authority.
The Administrator may make limited exceptions to the requirements or provisions of this subpart. Such exceptions must be in the best financial interest of the Federal government and may not conflict with applicable law. No exceptions may be made regarding applicant eligibility, project eligibility, or the rural area definition. In addition, exceptions may not be made:
(a) To accept an applicant into the program that would not normally be accepted under the eligibility criteria; or
(b) To fund an interested party or applicant that has not successfully competed for funding in accordance with this subpart.
§ 4280.304
Review or appeal rights and administrative concerns.
(a)
Review or appeal rights.
An applicant MDO, a microlender, or grantee MDO may seek a review of an adverse Agency decision under this subpart from the appropriate Agency official that oversees the program in question, and/or appeal the Agency decision to the National Appeals Division in accordance with 7 CFR part 11.
(b)
Administrative concerns.
Any questions or concerns regarding the administration of the program, including any action of the microlender, may be sent to: USDA Rural Development, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Program Management Division at 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Room 5160-S, Mail Stop 3226, Washington, DC 20250-3226 or its successor agency, or the local USDA Rural Development office.
§ 4280.305
Nondiscrimination and compliance with other Federal laws.
(a) Any entity receiving funds under this subpart must comply with other applicable Federal laws, including the Equal Employment Opportunities Act of 1972, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and 7 CFR part 1901, subpart E.
(b) The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) prohibits discrimination in all its programs and activities on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, disability, and where applicable, sex, marital status, familial status, parental status, religion, sexual orientation, genetic information, political beliefs, reprisal, or because all or part of an individual's income is derived from any public assistance program. (Not all prohibited bases apply to all programs.) Persons with disabilities who require alternative means for communication of program information (Braille, large print, audiotape, etc.) should contact USDA's TARGET Center at (202) 720-2600 (voice and TDD). Any applicant that believes it
has been discriminated against as a result of applying for funds under this program should contact: USDA, Director, Office of Adjudication, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250-9410, or call (866) 632-9992 (toll free) or (202) 401-0216 (TDD) for information and instructions regarding the filing of a Civil Rights complaint. USDA is an equal opportunity provider, employer, and lender.
(c) A pre-award compliance review will take place at the time of application when the applicant completes or provides the Agency with sufficient demographic information to complete Form RD 400-8, “Compliance Review”. Post-award compliance reviews will take place once every three years after the beginning of participation in the program and until such time as a microlender leaves the program.
§ 4280.306
Forms, regulations, and instructions.
Copies of all forms, regulations, and instructions referenced in this subpart are available in any Agency office, the Agency's website at:
https://www.rd.usda.gov/page/regulations-and-guidance/
and for grants on the internet at
www.grants.gov
.
§§ 4280.307-4280.309
[Reserved]
§ 4280.310
Program requirements for MDOs.
(a)
Eligibility requirements for applicant MDOs.
To be eligible for a direct loan or grant award under this subpart, an applicant must meet each of the criteria set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.
(1)
Type of applicant.
The applicant must meet the definition of an MDO as provided in § 4280.302.
(2
) Citizenship.
Non-profit entities, to be eligible to apply for status as an MDO, must be at least 51 percent controlled by persons who are either:
(i) Citizens of the United States, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; or
(ii) Legally admitted permanent residents residing in the United States.
(3)
Legal authority and responsibility.
The applicant must have the legal authority necessary to carry out the purpose of the award.
(4)
Other eligibility requirements.
The applicant must also provide evidence that it:
(i) Has demonstrated experience in the management of a revolving loan fund; or
(ii) Certifies that it, or its employees, have received education and training from a qualified microenterprise development training entity so that the applicant has the capacity to manage such a revolving loan fund;
(iii) Is actively and successfully participating as an intermediary lender in good standing under similar loan programs; and
(iv) Provides an attorney's opinion regarding the potential microlender's legal status and its ability to enter into program transactions at the time of initial entry into the program. Subsequent to acceptance into the program, an attorney's opinion will not be required unless the Agency determines significant changes to the microlender have occurred.
(b)
System for Awards Management.
All applicants must be registered in the System for Awards Management (SAM) prior to submitting an application, unless determined exempt under 2 CFR 25.110. Loan and grant recipients must maintain an active SAM registration with current information at all times during which it has an active Federal award or an application under consideration by the Agency. The applicant must ensure that the information in the database is current, accurate, and complete. Applicants must ensure that they complete the Financial Assistance General Certifications and Representations in SAM.
(c)
Minimum score.
Once deemed eligible, an entity will be evaluated based on the scoring criteria in § 4280.316 for adequate qualification to participate in the program. Eligible MDOs must score a minimum of sixty (60) points in order to be considered to receive an award under this subpart.
(d)
Ineligible applicants.
An applicant will be considered ineligible if it:
(1) Does not meet the definition of an MDO as provided in § 4280.302;
(2) Is debarred, suspended or otherwise excluded from, or ineligible for, participation in Federal assistance programs; or
(3) Has an outstanding judgment against it, obtained by the United States in a Federal Court (other than U.S. Tax Court).
(e)
Delinquencies.
No applicant will be eligible to receive a loan if it is delinquent on a Federal debt.
(f)
Application eligibility and qualification.
An application will only be considered eligible for funding if it is submitted by an eligible MDO. The applicant will qualify for funding based on the results of review, scoring, and other procedures as indicated in this subpart, and the applicant will further:
(1) Establish an RMRF, or add capital to an RMRF originally capitalized under this program, and establish or continue a training and TA program for its microborrowers and prospective microborrowers; or
(2) Fund a TA-only grant program to provide services to rural microentrepreneurs and microenterprises.
(g)
Business incubators.
Because the purpose of a business incubator is to provide business-based TA and an environment in which micro-level, very small, and small businesses may thrive, a microlender that meets all other eligibility requirements and owns and operates a small business incubator will be considered eligible to apply. In addition, a business incubator selected to participate as a microlender may use RMAP funds to lend to an eligible microenterprise tenant, without creating a conflict of interest under § 4280.323(c).
§ 4280.311
Loan provisions for Agency loans to microlenders.
(a)
Purpose of the loan.
Loans will be made to eligible and qualified microlenders to capitalize RMRFs that it will administer by making and servicing microloans in one or more rural areas.
(b)
Eligible activities.
Microlenders may make microloans for qualified business activities and use Agency loan funds only as provided in § 4280.322.
(c)
Ineligible activities.
Microlenders may not use RMRF funds for administrative costs or expenses and may not make microloans under this program for ineligible businesses or purposes as specified in § 4280.323.
(d)
Cost share.
The Federal share of the eligible project cost of a microborrower's project funded under this section shall not exceed 75 percent. The cost share requirement shall be met by the microlender using either of the options identified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section in establishing an RMRF. A microlender may establish multiple RMRFs utilizing either option. Whichever option is selected for an RMRF, it must apply to the entire RMRF and all microloans made with funds from that RMRF.
(1)
Microborrower project level option.
The loan covenants between the Agency and the microlender and the microlender's lending policies and procedures shall limit the microlender's loan to the microborrower to no more than 75 percent of the eligible project costs and require that the microborrower obtain the remaining 25 percent of the eligible project cost from non-Federal sources. The non-Federal share of the eligible project cost of the project may be provided in cash (including through fees, grants, and gifts) or in the form of in-kind contributions.
(2)
RMRF level option.
The microlender shall capitalize the RMRF at no more than 75 percent Agency loan funds and not less than 25 percent non-Federal funds, thereby allowing the microlender to finance 100 percent of the microborrower's eligible project costs. All contributed funds shall be maintained in the RMRF.
(e)
Loan terms and conditions for microlenders.
Program loans will be made to microlenders under the following terms and conditions:
(1) Funds received from the Agency and any non-Federal share will be deposited into an account that will be the RMRF account and shall not be mingled with other MDO funds. The Agency will hold first lien position on the RMRF account, the LLRF account, and all notes receivable from microloans using Agency funds.
(2) The RMRF account will be used to make fixed-rate microloans, accept repayments from microborrowers and reimbursements from the LLRF, to repay the Agency loan and, with the advance
written approval of the Agency, to supplement the LLRF with interest or fee earnings from the RMRF.
(3) The term of an Agency loan made to a microlender will be 20 years. If requested by the applicant MDO, a shorter term may be agreed upon by the microlender and the Agency. If a repayment workout is required after loan closing, the term of the loan may not exceed a 20-year period from the loan origination date.
(4) Each RMAP loan made to a microlender during its first five years of participation in the program will bear an interest rate of 2 percent for the life of the loan. After the fifth year of an MDO's continuous and satisfactory participation in the program, each new loan made to the microlender will bear interest at a rate of 1 percent. The interest rate on previous loans will remain unchanged. Satisfactory participation requires a loan default rate of 5 percent or less, a pattern of delinquencies of 10 percent or less in the MDO's RMRF account(s), and timely submission of reports to the Agency as required by § 4280.311(h).
(5) Each loan made to a microlender will automatically receive a 2-year deferral during which time no repayment to the Agency will be required. The deferral period will begin on the day the Agency's loan to the microlender is closed. During the initial 2-year deferral period, each loan to a microlender will accrue interest only on funds disbursed by the Agency. Interest accrued during the 2-year deferral period will be capitalized to the loan's principal balance during the 24th month of the loan unless the microlender chooses to make a voluntary payment of the accrued interest. The required monthly payments to amortize the loan after the 2-year deferral period will be based on the full loan amount plus capitalized interest, not just the amount disbursed to the microlender, even in cases where the Agency's loan has not been fully advanced to the microlender.
(6) Except in the case of liquidation or early repayment, loans to microlenders must fully amortize over the life of the loan. The first payment will be due to the Agency on the last day of the 24th month of the life of the loan.
(7) The microlender is responsible for full repayment of its loan to the Agency regardless of the performance of its microloan portfolio. Partial or full repayment of debt to the Agency under the program may be made at any time, including during the deferral period, without any pre-payment penalties being assessed.
(8) The Agency may call the entire loan due and payable prior to the end of the full term due to any non-performance, delinquency, or default on the loan.
(9) The loan closing between the microlender and the Agency should take place within 90 days from the execution of Form RD 1940-1, “Request for Obligation of Funds.” Microlenders that are unable to close the loan within 90 days of obligation must provide justification for the delay or loan funds will be forfeited through a de-obligation of funds.
(10) Microlenders will be eligible to receive a disbursement of up to 25 percent of the total loan amount at the time of loan closing. Funds disbursed at loan closing exceeding 25 percent of the loan amount will only be made if and to the extent that the MDO has made a funding commitment to an eligible microborrower that will be closed within 60 days from the Agency loan date. Interest will accrue on all funds disbursed to the microlender beginning on the date of disbursement.
(11) Microlenders may request in writing and receive additional loan disbursements until the full amount of the loan to the microlender is disbursed, or until the end of the 36th month of the loan, whichever occurs first. Letters of request for disbursement should be made not more often than quarterly and must be accompanied by a description of the microlender's anticipated need. Such description will indicate the amount and number of microloans anticipated to be made with the loan disbursement.
(12) Funds not disbursed to the microlender by the end of the 36th month of the loan from the Agency will be de-obligated and no longer available for disbursement to the MDO. In such cases where loan funds are deobligated, the Agency will establish a revised
payment schedule to fully amortize the loan balance by its maturity date.
(13) In the event a microlender fails to meet its payment or reporting obligations to the Agency, the Agency may pursue any combination of the following:
(i) Take possession of the RMRF and/or any microloans outstanding, and/or the LLRF;
(ii) Call the loan due and payable in full; and/or
(iii) Enter into a workout agreement acceptable to the Agency, which may or may not include transfer or sale of the portfolio to another microlender (whether or not funded under the program) deemed acceptable to the Agency.
(14) If a microlender makes a withdrawal from the RMRF for any purpose other than to make a microloan, repay the Agency, or, with advance written approval, transfer an appropriate amount of non-Federal funds to the LLRF, the Agency may take actions including the restriction of further access to withdrawals from the account by the microlender or declaring the loan in default due to improper use of loan funds.
(f)
Loan funding limitations
—(1)
Minimum and maximum loan amounts.
The minimum loan amount that a microlender may borrow under this program will be $50,000. The maximum amount any microlender may borrow on a single loan under this program, or in any given Federal FY, will be $500,000. In no case will the aggregate outstanding balance owed to the program by any single microlender exceed $2,500,000.
(2)
Use of funds.
Agency loan funds must be used only to establish or recapitalize an existing Agency funded RMRF account out of which microloans will be made, into which microloan payments will be deposited, and from which repayments to the Agency will be made.
(g)
Loan loss reserve fund (LLRF).
Each microlender that receives one or more loans under the program will be required to establish an LLRF account.
(1)
Purpose.
The purpose of the LLRF is to protect the microlender and the Agency against losses that may occur as the result of the failure of one or more microborrowers to repay their loans on a timely basis.
(2)
Capitalization and maintenance.
The LLRF is subject to each of the following conditions:
(i) The microlender must maintain the LLRF at a minimum of 5 percent of the total amount owed by the microlender under the program to the Agency. If the LLRF falls below the required amount, the microlender will have 30 days to replenish the LLRF. The Agency will hold a security interest in the account and all funds therein until the MDO has repaid its debt to the Agency under this program.
(ii) No Agency loan funds may be used to capitalize the LLRF.
(iii) The LLRF must be held in a Federally insured deposit account separate and distinct from any other fund owned by the microlender.
(iv) The LLRF must remain open, appropriately capitalized, and active until such time as any loans owed to the Agency by the microlender under the program related to such LLRF are paid in full.
(3)
Use of LLRF.
The LLRF must be used only to:
(i) Recapitalize the RMRF in the event of the loss and write-off of a microloan
;
(ii) Accept Non-Federal deposits as required for maintenance of the fund at a level equal to 5 percent or more of the amount owed to the Agency by the microlender under the program; and
(iii) Prepay or repay the Agency program loan.
(4)
LLRF funded at time of closing.
The LLRF account must be established by the microlender prior to the closing of the loan from the Agency. At the time of initial loan closing, sources of funding for the LLRF must be identified by the microlender and funds equal to 5 percent of the initial loan disbursement, if made at loan closing, must be made to the LLRF by the microlender. The amount in the LLRF can be built over time and must be maintained in an amount greater than or equal to 5 percent of the amount owed to the Agency by the microlender under the program. After the first disbursement is made to a microlender, further disbursements will only be made if the LLRF is funded at the appropriate
amount. After the initial loan is made to a microlender, subsequent loan closings may require a deposit of additional funds to the LLRF to maintain an amount equal to 5 percent of the total loan balance owed to the Agency under the program. Federal funds, except where specifically permitted by other laws, may not be used to fund the LLRF.
(5)
Additional LLRF funding.
In the event of exhibited weaknesses, such as losses that are greater than 5 percent of the microloan portfolio or a microborrower delinquency rate in excess of 10 percent, the Agency may require the microlender to deposit additional funds into the LLRF; however, the Agency may never require an LLRF balance of more than 10 percent of the total amount owed to the Agency by the microlender.
(h)
Recordkeeping, reporting, and oversight.
Microlenders must maintain all records applicable to the program and make them available to the Agency upon request. Microlenders must submit quarterly reports as specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section. Portfolio reporting requirements must be met via the electronic reporting system. Other reports, such as narrative information, may be submitted as hard copy in the event the microlender or grantee does not have the capability to submit or accept such reports electronically.
(1)
Periodic reports.
On a quarterly basis, within 30 days of the end of each Federal FY calendar quarter, each microlender that has an outstanding loan under this section must provide to the Agency:
(i) An Agency-approved form containing such information as the Agency may require, and in accordance with OMB circulars and guidance, to ensure that funds provided are being used for the purposes for which the loan to the microlender was made;
(ii) Listing of each microborrower under this program, their loan balance and payment status; and
(iii) A discussion reconciling the microlender's actual results for the period against its goals, milestones, and objectives as provided in the application package.
(2)
Minimum retention.
Microlenders must provide evidence in their quarterly reports that the sum of the unexpended amount in the RMRF, plus the amount in the LLRF, plus debt owed by the microborrowers is equal to a minimum of 105 percent of the amount owed by the microlender to the Agency, unless the Agency has established a higher LLRF reserve requirement for a specific microlender.
(3)
Combining accounts and reports.
If a microlender has more than one loan from the Agency, a separate report must be made for each loan except when RMRF accounts have been combined. A microlender may combine RMRF accounts only when the Agency approves the combining of accounts and reports in writing before such accounts are combined and reports are submitted, and:
(i) The underlying loans have the same rates, terms and conditions, including the method of determining matching funds for a microborrower's project; and
(ii) The combined report allows the Agency to effectively administer the program, including providing the same level of transparency and information for each loan as if separate RMRF and LLRF reports had been prepared.
(4)
Delinquency.
In the event that a microlender has delinquent loans in its RMAP portfolio, quarterly reports will include narrative explanation of the steps being taken to cure the delinquency.
(5)
Other reports.
Other reports may be required by the Agency from time to time in the event of poor performance, one or more work-out agreements, or other such occurrences that require more than the usual set of program servicing.
(6)
Access to microlender's records.
Upon request by the Agency, the microlender will permit representatives of the Agency to inspect and make copies of any records pertaining to operation and administration of the program. Such inspection and copying may be made during regular office hours of the microlender or at any other time agreed upon between the microlender and the Agency.
(7)
Changes in key personnel.
Before any additions or changes are made to
key personnel, the microlender must notify, and the Agency must approve, such changes. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Agency.
§ 4280.312
Loan approval and closing.
(a)
Loan approval and obligating funds.
The loan will be considered approved on the date the signed copy of Form RD 1940-1, “Request for Obligation of Funds,” is executed by the Agency. Form RD 1940-1 authorizes funds to be obligated and may be executed by the Agency after the microlender has signed the document, provided that the microlender has the legal authority to contract for a loan and to enter into required agreements, including an Agency-approved loan agreement, and meets all program loan requirements.
(b)
Letter of conditions.
Upon reviewing the conditions and requirements in the letter of conditions, the applicant must complete, sign, and return Form RD 1942-46, “Letter of Intent to Meet Conditions,” to the Agency; or if certain conditions cannot be met, the applicant may propose alternate conditions. The Agency will review any requests for changes to the letter of conditions and may approve only minor changes that do not materially affect the microlender and remain within the program requirements. Changes in legal entities prior to loan closing will not be approved.
(c)
Loan closing.
(1) Prior to loan closing, microlenders must provide evidence that the RMRF and LLRF bank accounts have been set up and the LLRF has been or will be funded as described in § 4280.311(g)(4). Such evidence shall consist of:
(i) A pre-authorized debit form allowing the Agency to withdraw payments from the RMRF account, and in the event of a repayment workout, from the LLRF account;
(ii) An Agency-approved automatic deposit authorization form, from the depository institution providing the Agency with the RMRF account number, into which funds may be deposited at time of disbursement to the microlender;
(iii) A statement from the depository institution as to the amount of cash in the LLRF account;
(iv) An Agency-approved promissory note and a loan agreement for each loan to the MDO must be executed at loan closing. The loan agreement will be prepared by the Agency using Form RD 4274-4, “Intermediary Relending Program/Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program Loan Agreement,” and reviewed by the MDO prior to loan closing; and
(v) An appropriate security agreement on the LLRF and RMRF accounts must be executed at loan closing.
(2) At loan closing, the microlender must certify that:
(i) All requirements of the letter of conditions have been met; and
(ii) There has been no material adverse change in the microlender, its key personnel, or its financial condition since the issuance of the letter of conditions. If one or more adverse changes have occurred, the microlender must explain the changes and the Agency must determine that the microlender remains eligible and qualified to participate as an MDO.
(3) The microlender will provide sufficient evidence that no lawsuits or other legal issues are pending or threatened that would adversely affect the security of the microlender when Agency security instruments are filed.
§ 4280.313
Grant provisions.
Grants offered under this program will be made to eligible MDOs in such amounts and requirements for microlenders with a loan(s) from the Agency, and for MDOs that seek only a TA grant from the Agency. Competition for these funds will occur as a part of the application and qualification process of becoming a microlender or grant recipient. No entity will receive grant funding as both a microlender and a TA-only provider. RMAP microlenders are not eligible for TA-only grant funding and an MDO receiving TA-only grant funding is not eligible for microlender grant funding. Failure to meet scoring benchmarks will preclude an applicant from receiving loan and/or grant dollars. Once an MDO is participating as a microlender, TA grant funds will be made available annually based on the MDO's lending balances and the availability of funds.
(a)
Microlender grants.
The Agency shall make microlender TA grants to microlenders to assist them in providing marketing, management, and other TA to rural microentrepreneurs and microenterprises that have received or are seeking one or more microloans from the microlender. The capacity of a microlender to provide an integrated program of microlending and TA will be evaluated during the scoring process with their loan application and then annually in determining the amount of annual grant funds. An eligible MDO selected to be a microlender will be eligible to receive a microlending TA grant if it receives funding to provide microloans under this program. Microlender applicants for loan funding to establish or replenish a revolving loan fund originally capitalized under this program, may simultaneously apply for TA grant funds in an amount not to exceed 25 percent of the requested loan amount.
(1) Technical assistance grants to microlenders will be awarded annually on a non-competitive basis in an amount based on the MDO's outstanding loan balance as of June 30, subject to satisfactory program performance of the microlender and the availability of funds. Satisfactory performance includes the timely payment of program loan(s) and the submission of periodic reports to the Agency. Annual TA grants to a microlender, subject to the availability of funds, will be made in an amount to replenish the microlender's TA fund to an amount equal to 20 percent of the outstanding principal balance of loans made by the microlender to ultimate recipients unless otherwise published in an annual program funding notice. If available grant funds are not sufficient to fully replenish each microlender's TA funds to 20 percent of their outstanding loan balance, the available funds will be distributed proportionately based on the percentage of available funds to the total amount of annual TA grant funds requested.
(2) Any grant dollars obligated but not spent by the microlender from their initial or subsequent grants will be subtracted from the subsequent year's grant eligibility calculation to ensure that obligations cover only microloans made and active and that the MDO's total grant funds available for TA do not exceed the established 20 percent threshold.
(3) The microlender will agree to use TA grant funds exclusively for providing TA assistance and training to eligible microentrepreneurs and microenterprises, with the exception that up to 10 percent of the grant funds may be used to cover the microlender's administrative expenses. Grant funds may not be used to make loan payments.
(b)
Technical assistance only grants.
Grants will be competitively made to MDOs for the purpose of providing TA and training to prospective microborrowers. Technical assistance-only grants will be provided to eligible MDOs that seek to provide business-based TA and training to eligible microentrepreneurs and microenterprises, but do not seek funding as a microlender for an RMRF.
(1) The amount of a TA-only grant under this program will not exceed 10 percent of the amount of authorized appropriations available in any Federal FY for TA-only grants.
(2) Technical assistance only grants will have a grant term not to exceed 12 months from the date the grant agreement is signed.
(3) Technical assistance only grantees will be required to:
(i) Refer clients to internal or external non-program funded lenders for loans of $50,000 or less, and
(ii) Collect data regarding such clients. Technical assistance-only grantees will be considered successful if a minimum of 1-in-5 TA clients are referred for a microloan and are operating a business within 18 months of receiving TA from the MDO.
(c)
Matching requirement.
The MDO is required to provide a match of not less than 15 percent of the total amount of the grant in the form of matching funds, indirect costs, or in-kind goods or services. Unless specifically permitted by laws other than the statute authorizing RMAP, matching contributions must be made up of non-Federal funds.
(d)
Administrative expenses.
Not more than 10 percent of a grant received by an MDO for a Federal FY may be used
to pay administrative expenses. Microlenders must annually submit a budget of proposed administrative expenses for Agency approval. The Agency has the right to deny the requested amount, even if it is at 10 percent or less, and to fund administrative expenses at a lower level.
(1) Administrative expenses should be kept to a minimum. As such, the applicant MDO is required in the application materials to provide an administrative budget plan indicating the amount of funding it will need for administrative purposes. Applicants will be scored accordingly, with those using less than 10 percent of the grant funds for administrative purposes being scored higher than those using 10 percent of the grant funds for administrative purposes.
(2) While operating the program, the selected grantee will be expected to adhere to the estimates it provides in its application and annual budget. If for any reason the MDO cannot meet those expectations, it must contact the Agency in writing with justification to request a budget adjustment. Budget adjustments will be considered only if the adjustment result for administrative expenses is within the 10 percent limitation.
(3) Microlenders that exceed 10 percent for administrative expenses will be considered in performance default and may be subject to Agency actions including the forfeiting of funds.
(e)
Ineligible grant purposes.
Grant funds, matching funds, indirect costs, and in-kind goods and services may not be used for:
(1) Grant application preparation costs;
(2) Costs incurred prior to the obligation date of the grant;
(3) Capital improvements;
(4) Political or lobbying activities;
(5) Assistance to any ineligible entity;
(6) Payment of any judgment or debt owed; or
(7) Payment of any loan.
(f)
Facilitation of access to capital.
Technical assistance-only grantees will be expected to provide training and TA services to the extent that access to capital for eligible microentrepreneurs and microenterprises is facilitated by referral to either an internal or external non-program loan fund so that these clients may take advantage of available financing programs.
(g)
Grant agreement.
For any grant to an MDO or microlender, the Agency will notify the approved applicant in writing, using an Agency-approved grant agreement, setting out the conditions under which the grant will be made. The form will include those matters necessary to ensure that the proposed grant is completed in accordance with the proposed project, that grant funds are expended for authorized purposes, and that the applicable requirements prescribed in the relevant Agency regulations are complied with.
§ 4280.314
[Reserved]
§ 4280.315
MDO application and submission information.
(a)
Initial and subsequent applications.
Applications shall be submitted in accordance with the provisions of this subpart unless adjusted by the Agency in an annual
Federal Register
document. The information required in §§ 4280.315 and 4280.316 is necessary for an application to be considered complete. Only those applicants that meet the basic eligibility requirements in § 4280.310 will have their applications fully scored and considered for participation in the program under this section. When preparing applications, applicants are strongly encouraged to review the application requirements and scoring criteria in § 4280.316 and provide documentation that will support a competitive score.
(b)
Content and form of submission.
All applicants must provide the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Additional application information is required in paragraph (d) of this section depending on the type of application being submitted.
(c)
Application information for all applicants.
All applicants must provide the following information and forms fully completed and with all attachments:
(1) Standard Form-424, “Application for Federal Assistance” for grants.
(2) Standard Form-424A, “Budget Information—Non-Construction Programs.”
(3) For entities applying for program loan funds to become an RMAP microlender only, Form RD 1910-11, “Certification of No Federal Debt.”
(4) Form RD 400-8, “Compliance Review” or sufficient demographic information for Agency completion of Form RD 400-8.
(5) Demonstration that the applicant is eligible to apply to participate in the program by submission of documentation as follows:
(i) If a nonprofit entity, evidence that the applicant organization meets the citizenship requirements and a copy of the applicant's bylaws and articles of incorporation, which include evidence that the applicant is legally considered a non-profit organization;
(ii) If an Indian tribe, evidence that the applicant is a federally recognized Indian tribe, and that the Indian tribe neither operates nor is currently served by an existing MDO;
(iii) If a public institution of higher education, evidence that the applicant is a public institution of higher education; and
(iv) For nonprofit applicants only, a Certificate of Good Standing, not more than six (6) months old, from the Office of the Secretary of State in the State, or tribal equivalent, in which the applicant is located. If the applicant has offices in more than one state, then the state in which the applicant is organized and licensed will be considered the home location.
(6) Certification by the applicant that it cannot obtain sufficient credit elsewhere to fund the activities called for under the program with similar rates and terms.
(d)
Type of application specific information.
In addition to the information required under paragraph (c) of this section, the following information is also required, as applicable:
(1) An applicant with more than 3 years of experience as an MDO outside of the program seeking to participate as an RMAP microlender must provide sufficient documentation to validate its years of experience.
(2) An applicant with 3 years or less experience as an MDO outside of the program seeking to participate as an RMAP microlender must provide the additional information specified in § 4280.316(c).
(3) An applicant seeking status as a microlender must identify in its application which cost-share option(s) the applicant will utilize, as described in § 4280.311(d), to meet the Federal cost-share requirement. If the applicant will utilize the RMRF-level option, the applicant shall identify the amount(s) and source(s) of the non-Federal share.
(4) An applicant seeking TA-only grant funds must provide the additional information specified in § 4280.316(d).
(e)
Application limits.
Microenterprise Development Organizations may only submit and have pending for consideration one application at any given time, which is for either microlender funds or TA-only funds.
(f)
Completed applications.
Applications that fulfill the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section will be fully reviewed, scored, and ranked by the Agency in accordance with the provisions of § 4280.316.
§ 4280.316
Application scoring.
Applications will be scored based on the criteria specified in this section using only the information submitted in the application. The total available points per application are 100 as shown in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. Awards will be based on the points ranking, with the highest scoring applications being funded first from the available funding.
(a)
Application requirements for all applicants.
All applicants must submit the eligibility and application information described in § 4280.315. The maximum points available in this part of the application are 45. In addition to the eligibility information, all applicants will submit:
(1) An organizational chart clearly showing the positions and naming the individuals in those positions. Of particular interest to the Agency are management positions and those positions essential to the operation of microlending and TA programming. Up to 5 points will be awarded based on the completeness of the organizational chart and management experience.
(2) Resumes for each of the individuals shown on the organizational chart and indicated as key to the operation of the activities to be funded under the program. There should be a corresponding resume for each of the key individuals noted and named on the organizational chart. Points will be awarded based on the quality of the resumes and on the ability of the key personnel to administer the program. Up to 5 points will be awarded.
(3) A succession plan to be followed in the event of the departure of personnel key to the operation of the applicant's RMAP activities. Up to 5 points will be awarded.
(4) Information indicating an understanding of microenterprise development concepts. Provide those parts of your policy and procedures manual that deal with the provision of loans, management of loan funds, and provision of TA. Up to 5 points will be awarded.
(5) The applicant's most recent, and two-year's previous, financial statements. Points will be awarded based on the demonstrated ability of the applicant to maintain or grow its fund balance, its ability to manage one or more federal programs, and its capacity to manage multiple funding sources, including restricted and non-restricted funding sources, income, earnings, and expenditures. Up to 10 points will be awarded.
(6) A copy of the applicant's organizational mission statement. The mission statement will be rated based on its relative connectivity to microenterprise development and general economic development and may or may not be a part of a larger statement. Up to 5 points will be awarded.
(7) Information regarding the geographic service area to be served, which must be rural as defined, and include the number of counties or other jurisdictions to be served. Note that the applicant will not be scored on the size of the service area, but on its ability to fully cover the service area as described. Up to 10 points will be awarded.
(b)
Program loan application requirements for MDOs seeking to participate as RMAP microlenders with more than 3 years of experience.
In addition to the information required under paragraph (a) of this section, applicants with more than three (3) years of experience as a microlender, including non-RMAP microloans, must also provide the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section. The total number of points available under this section (in addition to the up to 45 points available in paragraph (a) of this section) is 55.
(1)
History of provision of microloans.
The applicant must provide data regarding its history of making microloans for the three years previous to this application by answering the questions in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section. This information should be provided clearly and concisely in numerical format as the data will be used to calculate points as noted. Up to a maximum of 20 points may be awarded under this criterion.
(i) Number and amount of microloans made during each of the three previous years.
(ii) Number and amount of microloans made in rural areas, as defined, in each of the three years prior to the year in which the application is submitted. If the history of providing microloans in rural areas shows at least one loan made in:
(A) Three or more consecutive years immediately prior to the application, 5 points will be awarded;
(B) At least two of the years but not more than the three consecutive years immediately prior to this application, 3 points will be awarded;
(C) At least 6 months, but not more than one year immediately prior to this application, 1 point will be awarded.
(iii) Calculate and enter the total number of microloans made in rural areas as a percentage of the total number of all microloans made for each of the past three years. If the percentage of the total number of microloans made in rural areas is:
(A) 75 percent or more, 5 points will be awarded;
(B) At least 50 percent but less than 75 percent, 3 points will be awarded;
(C) At least 25 percent but less than 50 percent, 1 point will be awarded.
(iv) Enter the dollar amount of microloans made in rural areas as a
percentage of the dollar amount of the total portfolio (rural and non-rural) of microloans made for each of the previous three years. If the percentage of the dollar amount of the microloans made in rural areas is:
(A) 75 percent or more of the total amount, 5 points will be awarded;
(B) At least 50 percent but less than 75 percent, 3 points will be awarded;
(C) At least 25 percent but less than 50 percent, 1 point will be awarded.
(v) Each applicant shall compare the diversity of its entire microloan portfolio to the demographic makeup of its service area (as determined by the latest applicable decennial census for the state) based on the number of microloans made during the three years preceding the subject application. Demographic groups shall include gender, racial and ethnic minority status, and disability (as defined in the Americans with Disabilities Act). Points will be awarded on the basis of how close the MDO's microloan portfolio matches the demographic makeup of its service area. A maximum of 5 points will be awarded.
(A) If at least one loan has been made to each of the three demographic groups and if the percentage of loans made to each demographic group is 5 percent or less of their demographic makeup, 5 points will be awarded.
(B) If at least one loan has been made to each demographic group and if the percentage of loans made to each demographic group is each between 5 to 10 percent or less of the demographic makeup, 3 points will be awarded.
(C) If at least one loan has been made to each demographic group and if the percentage of loans made to one or more of the demographic groups is greater than 10 percent of the demographic makeup, 1 point will be awarded.
(D) If no loans have been made to two or more demographic groups, no points will be awarded.
(2)
Portfolio management.
The applicant's ability to manage its portfolio will be determined based on the data provided in response to paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section and scored accordingly. The maximum number of points under this criterion is 10.
(i) Enter the total number of the applicant's microloans paying on time for the three previous years. If the total number of microloans paying on time at the end of each year over the prior three years is:
(A) 95 percent or more, 5 points will be awarded;
(B) At least 85 percent but less than 95 percent, 3 points will be awarded;
(C) Less than 85 percent, 0 points will be awarded.
(ii) Enter the total number of microloans currently 30 to 90 days in arrears, or that have been written off over the three previous years. If the total number of these microloans is:
(A) 5 percent or less of the total portfolio, 5 points will be awarded;
(B) More than 5 percent, 0 points will be awarded.
(3)
History of provision of technical assistance.
The Applicant's history of provision of TA to microentrepreneurs and microenterprises, and its ability to reach diverse communities, will be scored based on the data specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section. Applicants may use a chart to provide this information as they deem appropriate. The maximum number of points under this criterion is 15.
(i) Provide the total number of rural and non-rural microentrepreneurs and microenterprises that received both microloans and TA services for each of the previous three years. Of this total number, provide the percentage of rural microentrepreneurs and rural microenterprises that received both microloans and TA services for each of the previous three years. If the provision of both microloans and TA services to rural microentrepreneurs and rural microenterprises is demonstrated at a rate of:
(A) 75 percent or more, 5 points will be awarded;
(B) At least 50 percent but less than 75 percent, 3 points will be awarded;
(C) At least 25 percent but less than 50 percent, 1 point will be awarded.
(ii) Provide the percentage of the total number of rural microentrepreneurs and rural microenterprises by racial and ethnic minority, disabled, and/or gender that received both microloans and TA services for each of
the previous three years. If the demonstrated provision of microloans and TA services to these rural microentrepreneurs and rural microenterprises is at a rate of:
(A) 75 percent or more, 5 points will be awarded;
(B) At least 50 percent but less than 75 percent, 3 points will be awarded;
(C) At least 25 percent but less than 50 percent, 1 point will be awarded.
(iii) Provide the ratio of TA clients that also received microloans, rounding to the nearest whole number, during each of the previous three years. If the ratio of clients receiving TA services to clients receiving microloans is:
(A) Between 1:1 and 1:5, 5 points will be awarded.
(B) Between 1:6 and 1:8, 3 points will be awarded.
(C) A ratio of either 1:9 or 1:10, 1 point will be awarded.
(4)
Ability to provide technical assistance.
In addition to providing a statistical history of their provision of TA to microentrepreneurs, microenterprises, and microborrowers, applicants must provide a narrative of not more than five pages describing the teaching and training methods used by the applicant organization to provide such TA and discussing the outcomes of their endeavors. Technical assistance is defined in § 4280.302. The narrative will be scored as specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section. Points may be awarded for each of the categories. The maximum number of points under this criterion is 5.
(i) Applicants that have used more than one method of training and TA (
e.g.,
classroom training, peer-to-peer discussion groups, individual assistance, distance learning) will be awarded 2 points.
(ii) Applicants that provide success stories to demonstrate the effects of TA on their clients will be awarded 2 points.
(iii) Applicants that provide evidence that they require evaluations by the clients of their training programs and indicate that the average level of evaluation scores is “good” or higher will be awarded 1 point.
(5)
Proposed administrative expenses to be spent from TA grant funds.
The maximum number of points under this criterion is 5. If the percentage of grant funds to be used for administrative purposes is:
(i) Less than 5 percent of the TA grant funds, 5 points will be awarded;
(ii) Equal to 5 percent but less than 8 percent, 3 points will be awarded;
(iii) Equal to 8 percent or greater, 0 points will be awarded.
(c)
Application requirements for MDOs seeking to participate as RMAP microlenders with 3 years or less experience.
In addition to the information required under paragraph (a) of this section, an applicant MDO with 3 years or less experience that is applying to be a microlender must submit the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section. The total number of points available under this paragraph, in addition to the maximum of 45 points available in paragraph (a) of this section, is 55, for a total of 100.
(1) The applicant must provide a narrative work plan that clearly indicates its intention for the use of loan and grant funds. Provide goals and milestones for planned microlending and TA activities. In relation to the information requested in paragraph (a) of this section, the applicant must describe how it will incorporate its mission statement, utilize its employees, and maximize its human and capital assets to meet the goals of this program. The applicant must provide its strategic plan and organizational development goals and clearly indicate its lending goals for the five years after the date of application. The narrative work plan should be not more than five pages in length. Up to a maximum of 10 points will be awarded.
(2) The applicant will provide the date that it began business as an MDO or other provider of business education and/or facilitator of capital. This date will reflect when the applicant became licensed to do business by the Secretary of State, or tribal equivalent, in which it is registered and engaged regularly paid staff to conduct business on a daily basis. If the applicant has been in business for:
(i) More than 2 years but less than 3 years, 5 points will be awarded;
(ii) At least 1 year, but not more than 2 years, 3 points will be awarded;
(iii) At least 6 months, but not more than 1 year, 1 point will be awarded;
(iv) Less than 6 months, or more than 3 full years, 0 points will be awarded. (If more than 3 full years, the applicant must apply under the provisions for MDOs with more than 3 years of experience as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.)
(3) The applicant must describe in detail any microenterprise development training received by it as a whole, or its employees as individuals, to date. The narrative may refer reviewers to already submitted resumes to save space. The training received will be rated on its topical variety, the quality of the description, and its relevance to the organization's strategic plan. The applicant should not submit training brochures or conference announcements. Up to a maximum of 10 points will be awarded.
(4) The applicant must indicate its current number of employees, those that concentrate on rural microentrepreneurial development, and the current average caseload for each. Indicate how the caseload ratio does or does not optimize the applicant's ability to perform the services described in the work plan. Discuss how Agency grant funds will be used to assist with TA program delivery and how funding of the program loan application will affect the portfolio. Up to 5 points will be awarded.
(5) Applicants may submit a maximum of five (5) letters of support with one point awarded for each letter. Support letters should be signed and dated and come from potential beneficiaries and other local organizations. Letters received from Congressional members and technical assistance providers will not be included in the count of support letters received. Additionally, identical form letters signed by multiple potential beneficiaries and/or local organizations will not be included in the count of support letters received. The applicant must indicate any training organizations with which it has a working relationship. Provide contact information for references regarding the applicant's capacity to perform the work in the plan provided. Up to a maximum of five (5) points will be awarded.
(6) Describe any plans for continuing training relationship(s), including ongoing or future training plans and goals, and the timeline for the same. Up to 5 points will be awarded.
(7) The applicant will describe its internal benchmarking system for determining client success, reporting on client success, and following client success for up to 5 years after completion of a training relationship. Up to 10 points will be awarded.
(8) The applicant will identify its proposed administrative expenses to be spent from TA grant funds. The maximum total number of points under this criterion is 5. If the percentage of grant funds to be used for administrative purposes is:
(i) Less than or equal to 5 percent of the TA grant funds, 5 points will be awarded;
(ii) More than 5 percent but less than 8 percent, 3 points will be awarded;
(iii) Equal to 8 percent or greater, 0 points will be awarded.
(d)
Application requirements for MDOs seeking TA-only grants.
Technical assistance-only grants may be provided to MDOs that are not RMAP microlenders seeking to provide training and technical assistance to rural microentrepreneurs and rural microenterprises. An applicant seeking a TA-only grant must submit the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section. The total number of points available under this section, in addition to the 45 points available in paragraph (a) of this section, is 55, for a total of 100 points.
(1)
History of provision of TA.
Each applicant's history of provision of TA to microentrepreneurs and microenterprises, and its ability to reach diverse communities, will be scored based on the data specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. The maximum number of points under this criterion is 20.
(i) Provide the total number of rural and non-rural microentrepreneurs and microenterprises that received both TA services and resultant microloans for each of the previous three years. Of this total number, provide the percentage of rural microentrepreneurs and rural microenterprises that received both TA services and resultant
microloans for each of the previous three years. If the provision of both TA services and resultant microloans to rural microentrepreneurs and rural microenterprises is demonstrated at a rate of:
(A) 75 percent or more, 5 points will be awarded;
(B) At least 50 percent but less than 75 percent, 3 points will be awarded;
(C) At least 25 percent but less than 50 percent, 1 point will be awarded.
(ii) Provide the percentage of the total number of rural microentrepreneurs by racial and ethnic minority, disabled, and/or gender that received both microloans and TA services for each of the previous three years. If the demonstrated provision of TA and resultant microloans to these rural microentrepreneurs when compared to the total number of microentrepreneurs assisted, is at a rate of:
(A) 75 percent or more, 10 points will be awarded;
(B) At least 50 percent but less than 75 percent, 7 points will be awarded;
(C) At least 25 percent but less than 50 percent, 5 points will be awarded.
(iii) Provide the ratio of TA clients that also received microloans during each of the last three years, rounded to the nearest whole number. If the ratio of clients receiving TA to clients receiving microloans is:
(A) Between 1:1 and 1:5, 5 points will be awarded.
(B) Between 1:6 and 1:8, 3 points will be awarded.
(C) Either 1:9 or 1:10, 1 point will be awarded.
(2)
Ability to provide TA.
In addition to providing a statistical history of their provision of TA to microentrepreneurs, microenterprises, and microborrowers, applicants must provide a narrative of not more than five pages describing the teaching and training method(s) used by the applicant organization to provide TA and discussing the outcomes of their endeavors. The narrative will be scored as specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section. The maximum number of points under this criterion is 20.
(i) Applicants that have used more than one method of training and TA (
e.g.,
classroom training, peer-to-peer discussion groups, individual assistance, and distance learning) will be awarded 5 points.
(ii) Applicants that provide success stories to demonstrate the effects of TA on their clients will be awarded points under either of the following paragraphs, but not both:
(A) News stories that highlight businesses made successful as a result of the applicant's TA; 5 points will be awarded.
(B) Internal stories that highlight businesses made successful as a result of TA, 3 points.
(iii) Applicants that provide evidence that they require evaluations by the clients of their training programs will be awarded 3 points. Applicants will provide the total number of evaluations received and the average score from the evaluations received. An additional two points will be awarded if the total evaluation scores are above an average of 3.0 on a five-point scale, with points determined by the client ratings on a declining scale as follows:
(A) Extremely Satisfied, 5 points.
(B) Satisfied, 4 points.
(C) Average, 3 points.
(D) Dissatisfied, 2 points.
(E) Very Unsatisfied, 1 point.
(iv) Applicants that present well-written narrative information regarding their programs and services to be delivered and their outreach efforts within the service area that is clearly and concisely written and is five pages or less will be awarded up to a maximum of 5 points.
(3)
Technical assistance plan.
Submit a concise plan for the provision of TA explaining how the funds will benefit the current program and how it will allow the applicant to expand its non-program microlending activities. Up to 10 points will be awarded.
(4)
Proposed administrative expenses to be spent from TA grant funds.
The maximum number of points under this criterion is 5. If the percentage of grant funds to be used for administrative purposes is:
(i) Less than or equal to 5 percent of the TA grant funds, 5 points will be awarded;
(ii) More than 5 percent but less than 8 percent, 3 points will be awarded;
(iii) Equal to 8 percent or greater, 0 points will be awarded.
(e)
Re-application requirements for participating microlenders with more than 5 years of experience as a microlender under this program.
(1) Microlender applicants with more than 5 years of experience as an MDO under this program may choose to submit a shortened loan/grant application that includes the following:
(i) A letter of request for funding stating the amount of loan and/or grant funds being requested;
(ii) An indication of the loan and/or grant amounts being requested accompanied by a completed Form SF 424 and any pertinent attachments;
(iii) An indication of the number and percent of the MDO's microentrepreneurs and microenterprises remaining in business for two years or more after microloan disbursement from program funds; and
(iv) A recent resolution of the applicant's Board of Directors approving the application for debt.
(2) The Agency, using this request and data available in the reports submitted under previous funding(s), will review the overall program performance of the applicant over the life of its participation in the program to determine its continued qualification for subsequent funds. Requirements include:
(i) A loan default rate of 5 percent or less;
(ii) A pattern of delinquencies during the period of participation in this program of 10 percent or less;
(iii) A pattern of use of TA dollars that indicates at least one in ten TA clients receive a microloan;
(iv) A statement discussing the need for more funding, accompanied by account documentation showing the amounts in each of the RMRF and LLRF accounts established to date; and
(v) A pattern of compliance with program reporting requirements.
(3) Shortened applications under this section will be rated on a pass or fail basis. Passing applications will be assigned a score of 90 points and will be ranked accordingly in the quarterly competitions. Failing applications under this section will be scored 0 and experienced MDOs may be required to complete the application requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 4280.317
Selection of applications for funding.
All eligible applications received will be scored using the scoring criteria specified in § 4280.316 and funded in descending order from the highest total score to applications receiving 60 points, subject to the authorization of appropriations for the Federal FY. If two or more applications have the same score and available funds cannot fund the individual projects, the Administrator may prioritize such applications to help the program achieve overall geographic diversity.
(a)
Timing and submission of applications.
(1) All applications must be submitted as a complete application in one package of materials. Packages must be in the order of appearance in § 4280.315. Applications that are disorganized or otherwise not ready for evaluation will be returned to the applicant and not considered for funding.
(2) Applications will be accepted on a continuing basis at any Rural Development State Office and will compete nationally for available funds on a quarterly basis using Federal fiscal quarters.
(3) Applications received will be reviewed, scored, and ranked quarterly. Unless withdrawn by the applicant, the Agency will retain unsuccessful applications that score 60 points or more for consideration in subsequent reviews, through a total of four quarterly reviews. Applications unsuccessful after competing for funds in four quarters will be returned to the applicant.
(b)
Availability of funds.
If an Application is received, scored, and ranked, but insufficient funds remain to fully fund the project, the Agency may elect to fund an Application requesting a smaller amount that has a lower score. Before this occurs, the Agency, as applicable, will provide the higher scoring applicant the opportunity to reduce the amount of its request to the amount of funds available. If the applicant agrees to lower its request, it must certify that the purposes of the project can be met, and the project is financially feasible at the lower amount.
(c)
Applicant notification.
The Agency will notify applicants regarding their selection or non-selection, provide appeal rights of unsuccessful applicants, and provide closing procedures for the loan and/or grant awardees.
(d)
Closing.
Awardees unable to complete closing for an approved obligation within 90 days or an extended date approved by the Agency will forfeit their funding award in accordance with § 4280.311(e)(9).
§§ 4280.318-4280.319
[Reserved]
§ 4280.320
Grant administration.
(a)
Oversight.
Any MDO receiving a grant under this program is subject to Agency oversight, with site visits and inspection of records occurring at the discretion of the Agency. In addition, MDOs receiving a grant under this subpart must submit reports, as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) On a quarterly basis, within 30 days after the end of each Federal fiscal quarter, the microlender will provide to the Agency an Agency-approved quarterly report containing such information as the Agency may require to ensure that funds provided are being used for the purposes for which the grant was made, including:
(i) Narrative reporting information as required by Office of Management and Budget (OMB) circulars and successor regulations. This narrative will include information on the MDO's TA, training, and/or enhancement activity, and grant expenses, milestones met, or unmet, explanation of difficulties, observations and other such information;
(ii) If requesting grant funds at the time of reporting, an executed SF-270 form and a brief description of the proposed activity-based expenditures are required.
(2) If a microlender has more than one grant from the Agency, a separate report must be made for each grant.
(3) Other reports may be required by the Agency from time to time in the event of poor performance or other such occurrences that require more than the usual set of reporting information.
(b)
Payments.
The Agency will make grant payments not more often than quarterly. The first grant payment may be made in advance and will equal no more than one fourth of the grant award. Other payment requests must be submitted on Standard Form 270 and will only be paid if the MDO's reports are up to date and approved.
§ 4280.321
Grant and loan servicing.
In addition to the ongoing oversight of the participating MDOs, all grants will be serviced in accordance with applicable regulations, including 7 CFR part 1951, subparts E and O, 7 CFR part 3, and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) regulations including, but not limited to, 2 CFR parts 200, 215, 220, 230, and OMB Circulars A-110 and A-133. Loans to microlenders will be serviced in accordance with 7 CFR part 1951, subparts E, O, and R, and OMB Circular A-129.
§ 4280.322
Loans from the microlenders to microentrepreneurs.
The primary purpose of making a program loan to a microlender is to enable that microlender to make microloans to rural microenterprises and microentrepreneurs. It is the responsibility of each microlender to make microloans in such a fashion that the terms and conditions of the microloan will support microborrower success while enabling the microlender to repay its loan from the Agency. It is the responsibility of each microborrower to repay the microlender in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed to with the microlender. The microlender is responsible for full repayment to the Agency of its loan regardless of the performance of its microloan portfolio.
(a)
Maximum microloan amount.
The maximum amount of a microloan made under this program will be $50,000. The total outstanding balance of microloans to any microborrower may not exceed $50,000.
(b)
Microloan terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions for microloans made by microlenders will be negotiated between the prospective microborrower and the microlender, with the following limitations:
(1) No microloan may have a term of more than 10 years;
(2) The interest rate charged to the microborrower will be established at or before the microloan closing and at such a rate that the microloan is affordable to the microborrower and provides a reasonable margin of earnings to the microlender.
(c)
Microloan insurance requirements.
The microlender has full discretion to require reasonable hazard, key person, and other insurance coverage from the microborrower as part of the loan transaction.
(d)
Credit elsewhere test.
Microborrowers will be subject to a “credit elsewhere” test so that the microlender will make loans only to those borrowers that cannot obtain business funding of $50,000 or less at affordable rates and on acceptable repayment terms. Each microborrower file must contain evidence that the microborrower has sought credit elsewhere or that the rates and terms available within the community at the time were outside the range of the microborrower's affordability. Evidence may include a comparison of rates, loan limitations, terms, or other requirements from other funding sources. Denial letters from other lenders are not required.
(e)
Fair credit requirements.
To ensure fairness, microlenders must publicize their rates and terms on a regular basis. Microlenders are also subject to Fair Credit lending practices and Federal nondiscrimination requirements as stated in § 4280.305.
(f)
Eligible microloan purposes.
Agency loan funds may be used to make microloans as defined in § 4280.302 for any legal business purpose not identified in § 4280.323 as an ineligible purpose. Microlenders may make microloans for qualified business activities and expenses including, but not limited to:
(1) Working capital;
(2) The purchase of furniture, fixtures, supplies, inventory or equipment;
(3) Debt refinancing;
(4) Business acquisitions; and
(5) The purchase or lease of real estate that is already improved and will be used for the location of the subject business only, provided no demolition or construction will be accomplished with program funds. Neither interior decorating, nor the affixing of chattel to walls, floors, or ceilings are considered to be demolition or construction.
(g)
Military personnel.
Military personnel who are or seek to be a microentrepreneur and are on active duty with six months or less remaining in their active duty status may receive a microloan and/or TA and training if they are otherwise qualified to participate in the program.
§ 4280.323
Ineligible microloan purposes and uses.
Agency loan funds will not be used for the payment of microlender administrative costs or expenses and microlenders may not make microloans under the program for any of the purposes and uses identified as ineligible in paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section.
(a) Construction costs including property demolition, renovation, elimination of walls, or property additions.
(b) The financing of timeshares, apartments, duplexes, or other residential housing.
(c) Assistance that will cause a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest including but not limited to:
(1) Financial assistance to principals, directors, officers, or employees of the microlender, or their close relatives, as defined; or
(2) Financial assistance to any entity which would appear to benefit the microlender or its principals, directors, or employees, or their close relatives, as defined, in any way other than the normal repayment of debt.
(d) Distribution or payment to a microborrower when such will use any portion of the microloan for other than business purposes.
(e) Microloans to a charitable institution not gaining sufficient revenue from business sales or services to support the operation and repay the microloan.
(f) Microloans to a fraternal organization.
(g) Any microloan to an applicant that has an RMAP-funded microloan application pending with another microlender or that has an RMAP-
funded microloan outstanding with another microlender that would cause the applicant to owe a combined amount of more than $50,000 to one or more microlenders under the program.
(h) Assistance to USDA Rural Development employees, or their close relatives, as defined.
(i) Microloans for any illegal activity.
(j) Any project that is in violation of either a Federal, State, or local environmental protection law, regulation, or enforceable land use restriction unless the microloan will result in curing or removing the violation.
(k) Loans supporting explicitly religious activities, such as worship, religious instruction or proselytization.
(l) Golf courses, race tracks, or gambling facilities.
(m) Funding of any political or lobbying activities.
(n) Lines of credit.
§§ 4280.324-4280.399
[Reserved]
§ 4280.400
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements contained in this subpart have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and have been assigned OMB control number 0570-0062. A person is not required to respond to this collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

# Subpart E—Rural Business Development Grants

# Source:
80 FR 15667, Mar. 25, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 4280.401
Purpose.
This subpart implements the RBDG program administered by the Agency. Grants made under this subpart will be made to eligible entities for use in funding various business opportunity and business enterprise Projects that serve Rural Areas.
§ 4280.402
[Reserved]
§ 4280.403
Definitions.
Administrator.
The Administrator of RBS or designees or successors.
Agency.
Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBS) or successor.
Agriculture Production.
The cultivation, production, growing, raising, feeding, housing, breeding, hatching, or managing of crops, plants, animals or birds, either for fiber, food for human consumption, or livestock feed.
Arm's-length Transaction.
The sale, release, or disposition of assets in which the title to the property passes to a ready, willing, and able disinterested third party that is not affiliated with or related to and has no security, monetary, or stockholder interest in the grantee or transferor at the time of the transaction.
Business Support Centers.
Centers established to provide assistance to businesses in such areas as counseling, business planning, training, management assistance, marketing information, and locating financing for business operations. The centers need not be located in a Rural Area, but must provide assistance to businesses located in Rural Areas.
Conflict of Interest.
When the grantee's employees, Board of Directors, or their immediate families have a legal or personal financial interest in the recipient(s) receiving the benefits or services of the grant. Tribal Governments, subdivisions of Tribal Governments (chapters, districts, authorities, townships, etc.), and Tribal arms and instrumentalities, entities wholly-owned and chartered by Tribal Governments including but not limited to: Tribal owned corporations (including Section 17 Corporations, Community Development Corporations and Economic Development Corporations), Tribal owned businesses, Tribal owned authorities, Tribal owned utilities, other Tribally owned enterprises and their subsidiaries will not be considered as having a conflict of interest due to their, or their Board's, ties to their associated Tribe or each other.
Departmental Grant Regulations.
The USDA grant regulations at 2 CFR chapter IV.
Economic Development.
The industrial, business and financial augmentation of an area as evidenced by increases in total income, employment opportunities, value of production, duration of employment, or diversification of industry, reduced outmigration, higher labor force participation rates or wage levels or gains in other measurements of economic activity, such as land values.
Indian Tribe (Tribal), Tribal Government and/or Federally Recognized Tribes.
Any Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village or community as defined by the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act (List Act) of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-454).
Industrial Site.
The development of undeveloped real estate for uses which will assist Small and Emerging Businesses.
Long-term.
The period of time covered by the three most recent decennial censuses of the United States to the present.
Nonprofit.
An entity chartered as a nonprofit organization under applicable State or Tribal law.
Other Business Development.
Any business related activity that will assist Small and Emerging Businesses and may include but is not limited to business incubators, business training centers, and other training activity which leads directly to Small and Emerging Business development.
Planning.
A process to coordinate Economic Development activities, develop guides for action, or otherwise assist local community leaders in the Economic Development of Rural Areas.
Priority Communities.
Communities targeted for Agency assistance as determined by the U.S. Department of Agriculture Under Secretary for Rural Development that are experiencing trauma due to natural disasters or are undertaking or completing fundamental structural changes, have remained persistently poor, or have experienced Long-Term population decline or job deterioration.
Project.
The result of the use of grant funds provided under this subpart through Technical Assistance or Planning relating to the Economic Development of a Rural Area; or the result of the use of program funds (
i.e.,
a facility whether constructed by the applicant or a third party made with grant funds, Technical Assistance, startup operating costs, or working capital). A revolving fund established in whole or in part with grant funds will also be considered a Project.
Public Bodies/Government Entity.
Public Bodies include States, counties, cities, townships, and incorporated towns and villages, boroughs, authorities, districts, and education institutions organized under State and Federal laws, and Indian Tribes.
Rural and Rural Area.
As described in 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(A) and (D)
et seq.
Small and Emerging Business.
Any private and/or nonprofit business which will employ 50 or fewer new employees and has less than $1 million in gross revenue; for retail operations, gross revenue may be reduced by cost of goods sold and returns or for a service organization, gross revenue may be reduced by the cost of providing service or for a manufacturing operation, gross revenue may be reduced by the cost of raw materials and the cost of production. The $1 million gross revenue and 50 or fewer new employee thresholds apply only to each individual Tribal owned enterprise applicant or recipient. Due to the unique structuring of Tribal economic development, the revenue or employees of the Tribe and/or parent Tribal enterprise will not apply towards the individual Tribal enterprise applicant or recipient, regardless of shared ownership or Directors. The revenue of Tribes, subdivisions of Tribes and Tribal entity applicants, will not be considered revenue in determining program and project eligibility.
State.
Any of the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Technical Assistance.
A function performed for the benefit of a private business enterprise or a community and which is a problem solving activity, such as market research, product and/or service improvement, feasibility
study, etc., to assist in the Economic Development of a Rural Area.
[80 FR 15667, Mar. 25, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 86570, Dec. 14, 2023]
§ 4280.404
Exception authority.
The Administrator may make an exception, on a case-by-case basis, to any requirement or provision of this subpart that is not inconsistent with any authorizing statute or applicable law if the Administrator determines that application of the requirement or provision would adversely affect the Government's financial interest.
§ 4280.405
Review or appeal rights.
A person may seek a review of an Agency decision under this subpart from the appropriate Agency official that oversees the program in question or appeal to the National Appeals Division in accordance with 7 CFR part 11.
§ 4280.406
Conflict of interest.
(a)
General.
No conflict of interest or appearance of conflict of interest will be allowed. For purposes of this subpart, Conflict of Interest includes, but is not limited to, distribution or payment of grant, guaranteed loan funds, and matching funds or award of Project construction contracts to an individual owner, partner, or stockholder, or to a beneficiary or immediate family of the applicant or grantee when the recipient will retain any portion of ownership in the applicant's or grantee's Project. Grant and matching funds may not be used to support costs for services or goods going to, or coming from, a person or entity with a real or apparent conflict of interest. All transactions must be Arm's-length Transactions.
(b)
Assistance to employees, relatives, and associates.
The Agency will process any requests for assistance under this subpart in accordance with 7 CFR part 1900, subpart D.
(c)
Member/delegate clause.
No member of or delegate to Congress shall receive any share or part of this grant or any benefit that may arise therefrom; but this provision shall not be construed to bar, as a contractor under the grant, a publicly held corporation whose ownership might include a member of Congress so long as the member's ownership is less than 10 percent.
§ 4280.407
Statute and regulation references.
All references to statutes and regulations are to include any and all successor statutes and regulations.
§ 4280.408
U.S. Department of Agriculture departmental regulations and laws that contain other compliance requirements.
(a)
Departmental regulations.
All funded under this subpart are subject to the provisions of the Departmental Regulations, as applicable, which are incorporated by reference herein.
(b)
Equal opportunity and nondiscrimination.
The Agency will ensure that equal opportunity and nondiscrimination requirements are met in accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, 15 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.
and 7 CFR part 15d, “Nondiscrimination in Programs and Activities Conducted by the United State Department of Agriculture.” The Agency will not discriminate against applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to contract); because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, 15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
(c)
Civil rights compliance.
Recipients of grants must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.,
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.,
and section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. 794. This may include collection and maintenance of data on the race, sex, and national origin of the recipient's membership/ownership and employees. The data must be available to conduct compliance reviews.
(1) Initial compliance reviews will be conducted by the Agency prior to funds being obligated.
(2) Grants will require one subsequent compliance review following Project completion. This will occur prior to the last disbursement of grant funds.
(d)
Environmental requirements.
Actions taken under this subpart must
comply with 7 CFR part 1970. Prospective applicants are advised to contact the Agency to determine environmental requirements as soon as practicable after they decide to pursue any form of financial assistance directly or indirectly available through the Agency.
(1) Any required environmental review must be completed by the Agency prior to the Agency obligating any funds.
(2) The applicant will be notified of all specific compliance requirements, including, but not limited to, the publication of public notices, and consultation with State Historic Preservation Offices (or Tribal Historic Preservation Offices where appropriate) and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
(3) A site visit by the Agency may be scheduled, if necessary, to determine the scope of the review.
(4) Applications for Technical Assistance or Planning Projects are generally excluded from the environmental review process by 7 CFR 1970.53 provided the assistance is not related to the development of a specific site. However, as further specified in 7 CFR 1970.53, the grantee for a Technical Assistance grant, in the process of providing Technical Assistance, must consider the potential environmental impacts of the recommendations provided to the recipient of the Technical Assistance as requested by the Agency and in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
(5) Applicants for grant funds must consider and document within their plans the important environmental factors within the Planning area and the potential environmental impacts of the plan on the Planning area, as well as the alternative Planning strategies that were reviewed.
(6) Whenever an applicant files an application that includes a direct construction Project and a plan, they must have a separate environmental evaluation.
(e)
Discrimination complaints
—(1)
Who may file.
Persons or a specific class of persons believing they have been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this section may file a complaint personally, or by an authorized representative with USDA, Director, Office of Adjudication, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250.
(2)
Time for filing.
A complaint must be filed no later than 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by the designated officials of USDA or the Agency.
(f)
Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act.
All Projects must comply with the requirements set forth in 7 CFR part 21.
(g)
Floodplains and wetlands.
All Projects must comply with Executive Order 11988 “Floodplain Management” and Executive Order 11990 “Protection of Wetlands.” The applicable regulations are codified at 44 CFR parts 59 through 80.
[80 FR 15667, Mar. 25, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 11052, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 4280.409
[Reserved]
§ 4280.410
Other laws and regulations that contain compliance requirements for this program.
(a)
Equal employment opportunity.
For all construction contracts and grants in excess of $10,000, the contractor must comply with Executive Order 11246, as amended by Executive Order 11375, and as supplemented by applicable Department of Labor regulations (41 CFR part 60-1). The applicant is responsible for ensuring that the contractor complies with these requirements.
(b)
Architectural barriers.
All facilities financed with Zero-Interest Loans that are open to the public or in which persons may be employed or reside must be designed, constructed, or altered to be readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons. Standards for these facilities must comply with the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157).
(c)
Uniform relocation assistance.
Relocations in connection with these programs are subject to 49 CFR part 24 as referenced by 7 CFR part 21 except that the provisions in title III of the Uniform Act do not apply to these programs.
(d)
Drug-free workplace.
Grants made under these programs are subject to the requirements contained in 2 CFR chapter IV which implements the
Drug-Free Workplace Act. RBDG recipients will be required to certify that it will establish and make a good faith effort to maintain a drug-free workplace program.
(e)
Debarment and suspension.
The requirements of 2 CFR chapter IV are applicable to this program.
(f)
Intergovernmental review of Federal programs.
These programs are subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and 2 CFR chapter IV. Proposed Projects are subject to the State and local government review process contained in 2 CFR chapter IV.
(g)
Restrictions on lobbying.
The restrictions and requirements imposed by 31 U.S.C. 1352, and 2 CFR chapter IV, are applicable to these programs.
(h)
Earthquake hazards.
These programs are subject to the seismic requirements of the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701-7706).
(i)
Affirmative fair housing.
If applicable, the grantee will be required to comply with the Affirmative Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3631 and 24 CFR part 100).
(j)
Flood hazard insurance.
The RBDG program is subject to the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended by 42 U.S.C. 4001-4129 and 7 CFR part 1806, subpart B.
(k)
Uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards.
The requirements of 2 CFR chapter IV, or its successor regulations are applicable to this program.
(l)
Planning and performing construction and other development.
The requirements of 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A, or its successor regulations, are applicable to this program.
(m)
Transparency Act.
The requirements of 2 CFR part 170 are applicable to this program.
§ 4280.411
Forms, guides, and attachments.
All forms, guides, and attachments referenced in this subpart are available online at:
http://forms.sc.egov.usda.gov/eForms/
or in any Rural Development State office.
§§ 4280.412-4280.414
[Reserved]

# Rural Business Development Grants
§ 4280.415
Rural Business Development Grants.
Sections 4280.416 through 4280.439 identify the provisions that the Agency will use for making awards for Rural Business Development Grants.

# Eligibility
§ 4280.416
Applicant eligibility.
To receive an RBDG under this subpart, an applicant must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. If an award is made to an applicant, that applicant (grantee) must continue to meet the requirements specified in this section. If the grantee does not, then grant funds may be recovered from the grantee by the Agency in accordance with Departmental Regulations.
(a)
Type of applicant.
The Applicant must be one of the following:
(1) A Public Body/Government Entity;
(2) An Indian Tribe; or
(3) A Nonprofit entity.
(b)
Financial strength and expertise.
The Applicant must have sufficient financial strength and expertise in activities proposed in the application to ensure accomplishment of the described activities and objectives.
(1) Financial strength will be analyzed by the Agency based on financial data provided in the application. The analysis will consider the applicant's tangible net worth, which must be positive, and whether the applicant has dependable sources of revenue or a successful history of raising revenue sufficient to meet cash requirements.
(2) Expertise will be analyzed by the Agency based on the applicant staff's training and experience in activities similar to those proposed in the application and, if consultants will be used, on the staff's experience in choosing and supervising consultants.
(c)
Universal identifier and system for awards management.
Unless exempt under 2 CFR 25.110, the Applicant must:
(1) Be registered in the System for Awards Management (SAM) prior to submitting an application;
(2) Maintain an active SAM registration with current information at all times during which it has an active Federal award or an application under consideration by the Agency; and
(3) Provide its Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) in each application it submits to the Agency. The UEI is included on the Standard Form (SF) 424, “Application for Federal Assistance.”
(d)
Delinquent debt.
The applicant must not have any delinquent debt to the Federal Government. If an applicant has any delinquent debt to the Federal Government, the applicant will be ineligible to receive any funds obligated under this subpart until the debt has been paid.
(e)
Legal authority and responsibility.
Each Applicant must have the legal authority necessary to apply for and carry out the purpose of the grant.
[80 FR 15667, Mar. 25, 2015, as amended at 89 FR 34959, May 1, 2024]
§ 4280.417
Project eligibility.
For a Project to be eligible for funding under this subpart, the proposed Project must meet each of the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(a)
Types of projects.
Grant funds may be used for Projects identified in either paragraph (a)(1) of this section, business opportunity type grants, or paragraph (a)(2) of this section, business enterprise type grants. Unless otherwise announced in a Notice of Solicitation of Applications, the Agency will set aside 10 percent of its RBDG appropriation for business opportunity type grants. The Agency reserves the right to reallocate funds set aside for business opportunity type grants to business enterprise type grants if it becomes apparent to the Agency that there is insufficient demand for the funds set aside for the business opportunity type grants.
(1)
Business opportunity Projects.
Grant funds may be used for business opportunity Projects that include one or more of the following activities:
(i) Identify and analyze business opportunities that will use local rural materials or human resources. This includes opportunities in export markets, as well as feasibility and business plan studies;
(ii) Identify, train, and provide Technical Assistance to existing or prospective rural entrepreneurs and managers;
(iii) Establish Business Support Centers and otherwise assist in the creation of new Rural businesses;
(iv) Conduct local community or multi-county Economic Development Planning;
(v) Conduct leadership development training of existing or prospective adult rural entrepreneurs and managers;
(vi) Establish centers for training, technology, and trade that will provide training to Rural businesses in the utilization of interactive communications technologies to develop international trade opportunities and markets; or
(vii) Pay reasonable fees and charges for professional services necessary to conduct the Technical Assistance, training, or planning functions.
(2)
Business enterprise projects.
Grant funds may be used to finance and/or develop Small and Emerging Businesses in Rural Areas including, but not limited to, the following activities:
(i) Acquisition and development of land, easements and rights-of-way;
(ii) Construction, conversion, enlargement, repairs or modernization of buildings, plants, machinery, equipment, access streets and roads, parking areas, utilities, and pollution control and abatement facilities;
(iii) Provision of loans for startup operating cost and working capital;
(iv) Reasonable fees and charges for professional services necessary for the planning and development of the Project;
(v) Establishment of a revolving loan fund to provide financial assistance to third parties through a loan; and
(vi) Establishment, expansion, and operation of Rural distance learning networks or development of Rural learning programs that provide educational instruction or job training instruction related to potential employment or job advancements for adult students;
(vii) Provision of Technical Assistance for Small and Emerging Businesses, including but not limited to feasibility studies and business plans; and/or
(viii) Provision of Technical Assistance and training to rural communities for the purpose of improving passenger transportation services or facilities.
(b)
Result of projects.
(1) For business opportunity type grants, the Project must have a reasonable prospect that the Project will result in the Economic Development of a Rural Area.
(2) For business enterprise type grants, the Project must have a reasonable prospect that it will result in the development or financing of Small and Emerging Businesses.
(c)
Basis for success or failure.
Grants may be made only when the application demonstrates a need for the Project and includes a basis for determining the success or failure of the Project and individual major elements of the Project and outlines procedures that will be taken to assess the Project's impact at its conclusion.
(d)
Local and area-wide strategic plans.
Business opportunity type grants may be made only when the proposed Project is consistent with any local and area-wide strategic plans for community and Economic Development, coordinated with other Economic Development activities in the Project area, and consistent with any Rural Development State Strategic Plan.
(e) An applicant is permitted to use up to 10 percent of the amount provided under this subpart to construct, improve, or acquire broadband infrastructure related to the project financed, subject to the requirements of 7 CFR part 1980, subpart M.
[80 FR 15667, Mar. 25, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 57085, Sept. 15, 2020]
§§ 4280.418-4280.420
[Reserved]

# Funding Provisions
§ 4280.421
Term requirement.
A grant may be considered for the amount needed to assist with the completion of a proposed Project, provided that the Project can reasonably be expected to be completed within 1 full year after it has begun.
§ 4280.422
Joint funding.
To the extent permitted by law, Agency grant funds may be used jointly and in proportion with funds furnished by the grantee or from other sources including Agency loan funds.
§ 4280.423
Ineligible uses of grant funds.
Grant funds may not be used towards any of the uses identified in paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section.
(a) Duplicate current services or substitute support previously provided. If the current service is inadequate, however, grant funds may be used to expand the level of effort or services beyond what is currently being provided.
(b) Pay costs of preparing the application package for funding under this program or any other program.
(c) Pay costs for any expenses incurred prior to receipt of a full application, except for those permitted under Departmental Regulations.
(d) Fund political activities.
(e) Pay for assistance to any private business enterprise which does not create and/or support jobs in the United States.
(f) Pay any judgment or debt owed to the United States.
(g) Fund Agriculture Production either directly or through horizontally integrated livestock operations except for commercial nurseries, timber operations or limited Agricultural Production related to Technical Assistance Projects. The following are not considered Agriculture Production:
(1) Aquaculture, including conservation, development, and utilization of water for aquaculture;
(2) Commercial fishing;
(3) Commercial nurseries engaged in the production of ornamental plants and trees and other nursery products such as bulbs, flowers, shrubbery, flower and vegetable seeds, sod, and the growing of plants from seed to the transplant stage;
(4) Forestry, which includes businesses primarily engaged in the operation of timber tracts, tree farms, and forest nurseries and related activities such as reforestation; or
(5) The growing of mushrooms or hydroponics.
(h) To finance comprehensive area-wide type Planning. This does not preclude the use of grant funds for Planning for a given Project.
(i) To make loans when the rates, terms, and charges for those loans are not reasonable or would be for purposes not eligible under 7 CFR part 4274, subpart D.
(j) For programs operated by cable television systems.
(k) To fund a part of a Project that is dependent on other funding unless there is a firm commitment of the other funding to ensure completion of the Project.
(l) To pay for Technical Assistance that duplicates assistance provided to implement an action plan funded by the Forest Service (FS) under the National Forest-Dependent Rural Communities Economic Diversification Act for 5 continuous years from the date of grant approval by the FS. To avoid duplicate assistance, the grantee shall coordinate with FS and the Agency to ascertain if a grant has been made in a substantially similar geographical or defined local area in a State for Technical Assistance under the FS program. The grantee will provide documentation to FS and the Agency regarding the contact with each agency.
(m) Pass through grants. Pass through grants are for, but not limited to:
(1) The purchase, refurbishing, or remodeling of real estate for use as a business incubator without charging a fair market rental;
(2) The purchase of equipment for use by an ultimate recipient without charging a fair market rental; and
(3) The making of a Revolving Loan Fund (RLF) loan without taking appropriate security to reasonably assure repayment of the loan.
(n) For a Project that would result in the transfer of existing employment or business activity more than 25 miles from its existing location.
§§ 4280.424-4280.426
[Reserved]

# Applying for a Grant
§ 4280.427
Application.
Applications for an RBDG grant as specified in § 4280.417(a)(1) and (2) must contain the following:
(a) An original and one copy of SF 424, “Application For Federal Assistance (For Non-construction);”
(b) Copies of applicant's organizational documents showing the applicant's legal existence and authority to perform the activities under the grant;
(c) A proposed scope of work, including a description of the proposed Project,
e.g.,
RLF, Technical Assistance, Industrial Site, Business Opportunity and Other Business Development, details of the proposed activities to be accomplished and timeframes for completion of each task, the number of months duration of the Project, and the estimated time it will take from grant approval to beginning of Project implementation;
(d) A written narrative that includes, at a minimum, the following items:
(1) An explanation of why the Project is needed, the benefits of the proposed Project, and how the Project meets the grant eligible purposes;
(2) Area to be served, identifying each governmental unit,
i.e.
town, county, etc., to be affected by the Project;
(3) Description of how the Project will coordinate Economic Development activities with other Economic Development activities within the Project area;
(4) Business to be assisted, if appropriate, and Economic Development to be accomplished;
(5) An explanation of how the proposed Project will result in newly created, increased, or supported jobs in the area and the number of projected new and supported jobs within the next 3 years;
(6) A description of the applicant's demonstrated capability and experience in providing the proposed Project assistance or similar Economic Development activities, including experience of key staff members and persons who will be providing the proposed Project activities and managing the Project;
(7) The method and rationale used to select the areas and businesses that will receive the service;
(8) A brief description of how the work will be performed including whether organizational staff or consultants or contractors will be used; and
(9) Other information the Agency may request to assist it in making a grant award determination;
(e) The latest 3 years of financial information to show the applicant's financial capacity to carry out the proposed work. If the applicant is less than 3 years old, at a minimum, the information should include all balance sheet(s), income statement(s) and cash flow statement(s). A current audited report is required if available;
(f) Intergovernmental review comments from the State Single Point of Contact, or evidence that the State has elected not to review the program under Executive Order 12372;
(g) Documentation regarding the availability and amount of other funds to be used in conjunction with the funds from the RBDG;
(h) A budget which includes salaries, fringe benefits, consultant costs, indirect costs, and other appropriate direct costs for the Project; and
(i) RBDG construction Project grants must conform with 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A requirements.
§ 4280.428
Strategic economic and community development.
Applicants with projects that support the implementation of Strategic Community Investment Plans are encouraged to review and consider 7 CFR part 1980, subpart K, which contains provisions for providing priority to projects that support the implementation of Strategic Community Investment Plans on a multi-jurisdictional and multi-sectoral basis.
[85 FR 59395, Sept. 22, 2020]
§ 4280.429
[Reserved]
§ 4280.430
Notification of decision.
When the Agency has determined that an application is not eligible or that no further action will be taken, the Agency will notify the applicant in writing of the reasons why the application was not favorably considered and provide any appeal rights.
§§ 4280.431-4280.433
[Reserved]

# Processing and Scoring Applications
§ 4280.434
General processing and scoring provisions.
The Agency will review each application for assistance in accordance with the priorities established in § 4280.435. The Agency will assign each application a priority rating and will select applications for funding based on the priority ratings and the total funds available to the program.
(a)
Applications.
The Agency will score each application based on the information contained in the application and its supporting information. All applications submitted for funding must contain sufficient information to permit the Agency to complete a thorough priority rating.
(b)
Unfunded applications.
The Agency will notify eligible applicants if funds are not available. If an applicant wishes to have their application maintained in an active file for future consideration, the applicant must revise and update their application in writing for the Agency to reconsider in a future funding cycle.
§ 4280.435
Scoring criteria.
The Agency will use the criteria in this section to score applications for purposes identified under § 4280.417(a)(1)and (2).
(a)
Leveraging.
If the grant will fund a critical element of a larger program of Economic Development, without which the overall program either could not proceed or would be far less effective, or if the program to be assisted by the grant will also be partially funded from other sources, points will be awarded as follows. If points are awarded for leveraging, funds must be spent proportionally, and if leveraged funds are not utilized proportionately with the grant, the Agency reserves the right to take any legal action, including terminating the grant.
(1) If Rural Development's portion of Project funding is:
(i) Less than 20 percent—30 points;
(ii) 20 but less than 50 percent—20 points;
(iii) 50 but less than 75 percent—10 points; or
(iv) 75 percent or more—0 points.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) Points will be awarded for each of the following criteria met by the community or communities that will receive the benefit of the grant. However, regardless of the mathematical total of points indicated by paragraphs (b)(1)
through (4) of this section, total points awarded under this paragraph (b) must not exceed 40.
(1)
Trauma.
Experiencing trauma due to a major natural disaster that occurred not more than 3 years prior to the filing of the application for assistance—15 points;
(2)
Economic distress.
The community has suffered a loss of 20 percent or more in their total jobs caused by the closure of a military facility or other employers within the last 3 years—15 points;
(3)
Long-term poverty.
Has experienced Long-Term poverty as demonstrated by being a former Rural empowerment zone, Rural economic area partnership zone, Rural enterprise community, champion community, or a persistent poverty county as determined by USDA's Economic Research Serviced—10 points;
(4)
Population decline.
Has experienced Long-Term population decline—10 points as demonstrated by the latest three decennial censuses.
(c)
Population.
Proposed Project(s) will be located in a community of:
(1) Under 5,000 population—15 points;
(2) Between 5,000 and less than 15,000 population—10 points; or
(3) Between 15,000 and 25,000 population—5 points.
(d)
Unemployment.
Proposed Project(s) will be located in areas where the unemployment rate:
(1) exceeds the State rate by 25 percent or more—20 points;
(2) exceeds the State rate by less than 25 percent—10 points; or
(3) is equal to or less than the State rate—0 points.
(e)
Median household income.
Proposed Project(s) will be located in areas where Median Household Income (MHI) as prescribed by section 673(2) of the Community Services Block Grant Act for a family of 4 for the State is:
(1) Less than poverty line—25 points;
(2) More than poverty line but less than 65 percent of State MHI—15 points;
(3) Between 65 and 85 percent of State MHI—10 points; or
(4) Greater than 85 percent State MHI—0 points.
(f)
Experience.
Applicant has evidence of successful experience in the type of activity. Evidence of successful experience may be a description of experience supplied and certified by the applicant based upon its current employees' resumes:
(1) 10 or more years-30 points;
(2) At least 5 but less than 10 years-20 points;
(3) At least 3 but less than 5 years-10 points; or
(4) At least 1 but less than 3 years-5 points.
(g)
Small business start-up or expansion.
Applicant has evidence that small business development will be supported by startup or expansion as a result of the activities to be carried out under the grant. Written evidence of commitment by a small, or a Small and Emerging Business must be provided to the Agency, and should include the number of jobs that will be supported and created. 5 points for each letter up to 25 points.
(h)
Jobs created or supported.
The anticipated development, expansion, or furtherance of business enterprises as a result of the proposed Project will create and/or support existing jobs associated with the affected businesses. The number of jobs must be evidenced by a written commitment from the business to be assisted.
(1) One job for less than $5,000—25 points;
(2) one job for $5,000 but less than $10,000—20 points;
(3) one job for $10,000 but less than $15,000—15 points;
(4) one job for $15,000 but less than $20,000—10 points; or
(5) one job for $20,000 but less than $25,000—5 points.
(i)
Size of grant request.
Grant Projects utilizing funds available under this subpart of:
(1) less than $100,000—25 points;
(2) $100,000 to $200,000—15 points; or
(3) more than $200,000 but not more than $500,000—10 points.
(j)
Indirect cost.
Applicant is not requesting grant funds to cover their administrative or indirect costs-5 points.
(k)
Discretionary points.
Either the State Director or Administrator may assign up to 50 discretionary points to an application. Assignment of discretionary points must include a written justification. Permissible justifications
are geographic distribution of funds, special Secretary of Agriculture initiatives such as Priority Communities, or a state's strategic goals. Discretionary points may only be assigned to initial grants. However, in the case where two Projects have the same score, the State Director may add one point to the Project that best fits the State's strategic plan regardless of whether the Project is an initial or subsequent grant.
§§ 4280.436-4280.438
[Reserved]

# Grant Awards and Agreement
§ 4280.439
Grant awards and agreements.
The Agency will award and administer RBDG grants in accordance with applicable Departmental regulations, this subpart, and the unauthorized grant provisions of 7 CFR part 1951, subpart O.
(a)
Letter of conditions.
The Agency will provide each approved applicant a letter of conditions, which sets out the conditions under which the grant will be made, including, but not limited to, an Agency grant agreement.
(b)
Applicant's intent to meet conditions.
The applicant must complete, sign and return a “Letter of Intent to Meet Conditions,” to the Agency. If applicant identifies certain conditions that the applicant cannot meet, the applicant may propose alternate conditions to the Agency. The Agency must concur with any changes proposed by the letter of conditions by the applicant before the any grant will be made.
§§ 4280.440-4280.442
[Reserved]

# Post Award Activities and Requirements
§ 4280.443
Grant monitoring and servicing.
RBDG grants will be monitored and serviced in accordance with the grant agreement, this subpart, and 2 CFR chapter IV.
§§ 4280.444-4280.447
[Reserved]
§ 4280.448
Transfers and assumptions.
The Agency will approve transfer and assumption requests on grants awarded under this subpart on a case by case basis, and then only to eligible entities under § 4280.416.
§§ 4280.449-4280.499
[Reserved]
§ 4280.500
OMB control number.
The reporting and recordkeeping requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB control number 0570-0070 in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995. You are not required to respond to this collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number.
[88 FR 86570, Dec. 14, 2023]
Pt. 4284

# PART 4284—GRANTS
Subparts A-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Rural Cooperative Development Grants
4284.501
Purpose.
4284.502
Organization of subpart.
4284.503
Definitions.
4284.504
Exception authority.
4284.505
[Reserved]
4284.506
Conflict of interest.
4284.507
[Reserved]
4284.508
Compliance with other laws and regulations.
4284.509-4284.519
[Reserved]
4284.520
Applicant eligibility.
4284.521
[Reserved]
4284.522
Project eligibility.
4284.523-4284.524
[Reserved]
4284.525
Use of grant and Matching Funds.
4284.526-4284.529
[Reserved]
4284.530
Notifications.
4284.531
Application requirements.
4284.532
[Reserved]
4284.533
Submission requirements.
4284.534-4284.539
[Reserved]
4284.540
Application processing.
4284.541
Application withdrawal.
4284.542-4284.549
[Reserved]
4284.550
Award selection.
4284.551
Notification of successful Applicants.
4284.552
Notification of unsuccessful Applicants.
4284.553
Award approval.
4284.554
Multi-year award.
4284.555-4284.559
[Reserved]
4284.560
Reporting requirements.
4284.561
Monitoring awards.
4284.562-4284.599
[Reserved]
4284.600
OMB control number.
Subparts G-I [Reserved]

# Subpart J—Value-Added Producer Grant Program
4284.901
Purpose.
4284.902
Organization of subpart.
4284.903
Definitions.
4284.904
Exception authority.
4284.905
[Reserved]
4284.906
Conflict of interest.
4284.907
[Reserved]
4284.908
Compliance with other laws and regulations.
4284.909-4284.915
[Reserved]
4284.916
Reserved funds.
4284.917-4284.919
[Reserved]
4284.920
Eligible Applicants.
4284.921
Ineligible Applicants.
4284.922
Project eligibility.
4284.923
Reserved funds eligibility.
4284.924
Priority points eligibility.
4284.925
Allowable uses of grant and Matching Funds.
4284.926
Unallowable uses of grant and Matching Funds.
4284.927
[Reserved]
4284.928
Funding limitations.
4284.929
[Reserved]
4284.930
Notifications.
4284.931
Application requirements.
4284.932
Simplified application.
4284.933
Submission requirements.
4284.934-4284.939
[Reserved]
4284.940
Application processing.
4284.941
Application withdrawal.
4284.942-4284.949
[Reserved]
4284.950
Award selection.
4284.951
Notification of successful Applicants.
4284.952
Notification of unsuccessful Applicants.
4284.953-4284.959
[Reserved]
4284.960
Reporting requirements.
4284.961
Grant monitoring.
4284.962
Transfer of obligations.
4284.963-4284.999
[Reserved]
4284.1000
OMB control number.

# Subpart K—Agriculture Innovation Center Demonstration Program

# General Information
4284.1001
Purpose.
4284.1002
Organization of subpart.
4284.1003
Definitions.
4284.1004
Exception authority.
4284.1005
[Reserved]
4284.1006
Conflict of interest.
4284.1007
[Reserved]
4284.1008
Compliance with other laws and regulations.
4284.1009-4284.1019
[Reserved]

# Eligibility Information
4284.1020
Applicant eligibility.
4284.1021
Ultimate beneficiary eligibility.
4284.1022
Project eligibility.
4284.1023-4284.1024
[Reserved]
4284.1025
Use of funds.
4284.1026-4284.1029
[Reserved]
4284.1030
Notifications.

# Application Requirements
4284.1031
Application requirements.
4284.1032
[Reserved]
4284.1033
Submission requirements.
4284.1034-4284.1039
[Reserved]

# Application Processing
4284.1040
Application processing.
4284.1041
Application withdrawal.
4284.1042-4284.1049
[Reserved]

# Award
4284.1050
Award selection.
4284.1051
Notification of successful Applicants.
4284.1052
Notification of unsuccessful Applicants.
4284.1053
Award approval.
4284.1054-4284.1059
[Reserved]

# Post-Award
4284.1060
Reporting requirements.
4284.1061
Monitoring awards.

# Other
4284.1062-4284.1099
[Reserved]
4284.1100
OMB control number.

# Subpart L—Rural Innovation Stronger Economy (RISE) Grant Program
4284.1101
Purpose.
4284.1102
Organization of subpart.
4284.1103
Definitions.
4284.1104
Exception authority.
4284.1105
Review or appeal rights.
4284.1106
Conflict of interest.
4284.1107
Statute and regulation references.
4284.1108
U.S. Department of Agriculture departmental regulations and laws that contain other compliance requirements
4284.1109
Ineligible applicants
4284.1110
General applicant, application, and funding provisions.
4284.1111
Notifications.
4284.1112
Rural jobs accelerator partnership eligibility.
4284.1113
Project eligibility.
4284.1114
RISE grant funding.
4284.1115
RISE grant applications—content.
4284.1116
[Reserved]
4284.1117
Scoring RISE grant applications.
4284.1118
Selecting RISE grant applications for award.
4284.1119
Awarding and administering RISE grants.
4284.1120
Servicing RISE grants.
4284.1121-4284.1130
[Reserved]
4284.1131
OMB control number.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 7 U.S.C. 1989.
Subpart F also issued under 7 U.S.C 1932(e).
Subpart J also issued under 7 U.S.C. 1627c.
Subpart K also issued under 7 U.S.C. 1632b.

# Source:
62 FR 42387, Aug. 7, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
Subparts A-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Rural Cooperative Development Grants

# Source:
89 FR 75771, Sept. 16, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 4284.501
Purpose.
This subpart implements the Rural Cooperative Development Grant (RCDG) Program. Grants are made to Nonprofit Institutions who in turn provide Technical Assistance including Cooperative Development to start, expand or improve Cooperatively and Mutually Owned Businesses in Rural Areas.
§ 4284.502
Organization of subpart.
The information in this subpart is organized into six main topics:
(a)
General information.
Sections 4284.501 through 4284.519 discuss the purpose of the program, definitions, exception authority, conflict of interest, and compliance with other laws and regulations.
(b)
Eligibility information.
Sections 4284.520 through 4284.529 discuss the eligibility requirements for the program. The sections include information on Applicant eligibility, Project eligibility, and the use of funds. See § 4284.522 for information about the award amounts, Period of Performance, and Matching Funds requirements.
(c)
Application requirements information.
Sections 4284.530 through 4284.539 discuss the requirements for submitting an application. The sections include information on what forms and other information are required for a complete application as well as the format of the application, the application deadline, and how to submit the application.
(d)
Application processing information.
Sections 4284.540 through 4284.549 discuss how the Agency will process applications. The sections include information on how applications will be reviewed for eligibility, how applications will be evaluated for merit, and how an Applicant can withdraw an application from consideration.
(e)
Award information.
Sections 4284.550 through 4284.559 discuss how the Agency will make awards. The sections include information about how applications will be selected for funding, how Applicants will be notified if their applications are selected for funding, how Applicants can resolve disputes regarding funding selections, and the requirements for an Applicant to accept an award and be approved as a Recipient of an award.
(f)
Post-award information.
Sections 4284.560 through 4284.561 discuss the reporting requirements for Recipients after an award is approved as well as monitoring procedures that the Agency will use.
(g)
Other.
(1) Sections 4284.562 through 4284.599 are reserved.
(2) Section 4284.600 includes the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control number for reporting and recordkeeping requirements under this subpart.
§ 4284.503
Definitions.
These are the definitions for terms used in this subpart. Additional terms used in this subpart are found in the applicable laws and regulations, in particular 2 CFR part 200 and 7 CFR part 11.
1994 Institution
means a college identified as such for purposes of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 301 note).
Adverse Decision
has the meaning located at 7 CFR 11.1.
Adverse Decision Letter
means a letter issued by the Agency to the Applicant or Recipient that explains the Adverse Decision.
Agency
means the Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBCS or the Agency), an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA or the Department), or a successor agency.
Applicant
means the Nonprofit Institution that is applying for funding through the RCDG program.
Board of Directors (Board)
means the group of individuals that manage or direct the Center.
Business Plan
means a formal statement of a set of business goals, the reasons why they are believed attainable, and the plan for reaching those goals, including pro forma financial statements appropriate to the term and scope of the Project and sufficient to evidence the viability of the Project. It may also contain background information about the organization or team attempting to reach those goals.
Center
means the Rural Cooperative Development Center to be established and/or operated by a Recipient of the RCDG program.
Cooperative
means a business or organization owned, democratically governed, controlled and operated by those who use and benefit from it. Profits and losses generated by the organization are distributed in proportion to use as patronage to the user-owners, also known as members. Investment returns to non-members are limited.
Cooperative Development
refers to a type of Technical Assistance that establishes and promotes Cooperative businesses through hands-on activities, often but not exclusively, assisting a group through a series of stages. These stages include but are not limited to the following: idea exploration by a group with shared needs, member-use analysis, identifying a steering committee and guiding them through the development process, modeling effective democratic processes and good governance practices, creation of legal and policy documents, conducting a membership drive, raising member equity, acquiring sufficient capital, supporting operations, ongoing education and training, ongoing Board development and relations with management, supporting decision-making regarding patronage, and fostering an environment that is supportive of Cooperatives.
Economic Development
means the economic growth of an area as evidenced by an increase in total income, employment opportunities, decreased out-migration of population, value of production, increased diversification of industry, higher labor force participation rates, increased duration of employment, higher wage levels, or gains in other measurements of economic activity, such as land values.
Equipment
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Feasibility Study
means a comprehensive analysis of the economic, market, technical, financial, and management capabilities of a Project or business in terms of the Project's expectation for success.
Federal Award
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Grant Agreement or Financial Assistance Agreement
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Institutions of Higher Education
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Key Personnel
means employees, new hires, consultants, and/or contractors of the Center who provide Technical Assistance including Cooperative Development and oversee and/or complete the tasks in the work plan.
Letter of Conditions
means the letter that the Agency issues to an entity whose application is selected for funding. The letter outlines all the conditions of the award that must be met before the award can be approved. Other agencies may call this letter an award letter or award notice.
Matching Funds
means a cost-sharing contribution to the Project that is 25 percent of the eligible Project Cost. For 1994 Institutions, a cost-sharing contribution that is 5 percent of the eligible Project Cost.
Mutually Owned Business
means a business not incorporated under a Cooperative statute but operating as a Cooperative. Cooperative operation of the business is reflected in the articles and by-laws.
Networking
means the creation and sharing of knowledge, best practices and transferrable strategies, engaging in mentor/mentee relationships amongst Centers, and developing joint Technical Assistance Projects with other Centers and other organizations engaged in Economic Development with the intent of advancing Cooperative Development and its practice.
New Cooperative Approach
refers to development of a Cooperatively or Mutually Owned Business approach in a new industry, utilizing a new Cooperative structure, or serving a new function. This industry, structure, or function must be new to the Center or new to the service area.
Nonprofit Institution
means any organization or institution, including an accredited Institution of Higher Education, no part of the net earnings of which inures, or may lawfully inure, to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
Operating Cost
means the day-to-day expenses of running a business; for example: utilities, rent on the office space a business occupies, salaries, depreciation, marketing and advertising, and other basic overhead items.
Period of Performance
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Project
means all of the eligible activities to be funded by the grant and Matching Funds under this subpart.
Project Cost
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Public Body
means any State, county, city, township, incorporated town or village, borough, authority, district, Economic Development authority, or Indian tribe on Federal or State reservations or other federally recognized Indian tribe.
Real Property
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Recipient
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Research and Development (R
D)
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Rural and Rural Area
means any area of a State not in a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, according to the latest decennial census of the United States, or in the urban area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, and any area that has been determined to be “rural in character” by the Under Secretary for Rural Development (RD), or as otherwise identified in this definition as follows:
(1) An area that is attached to the urban area of a city or town with more than 50,000 inhabitants by a contiguous area of urbanized census blocks that is not more than two (2) census blocks wide. Applicants from such an area should work with their RD State office to request a determination of whether their project is located in a Rural Area under this provision.
(2) For the purposes of this definition, cities and towns are incorporated population centers with definite boundaries, local self-government, and legal powers set forth in a charter granted by the State.
(3) For the purposes of this definition, populations of individuals incarcerated on a long-term or regional basis shall not be included in determining whether an area is “rural” or a “rural area”.
(4) For the purposes of this definition, the first 1,500 individuals who reside in housing located on a military base shall not be included in determining whether an area is “rural” or a “rural area”.
(5) For the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the island is considered Rural and eligible for Business Programs assistance, except for the San Juan Census Designated Place (CDP) and any other CDP with greater than 50,000 inhabitants. CDPs with greater than 50,000 inhabitants, other than the San Juan CDP, may be determined to be eligible if they are “not urban in character.”
(6) For the State of Hawaii, all areas within the State are considered Rural and eligible for Business Programs assistance, except for the Honolulu CDP within the County of Honolulu.
(7) For the purpose of defining a Rural Area in the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Agency shall determine what constitutes Rural and Rural Area based on available population data.
(8) The determination that an area is “rural in character” will be made by the Under Secretary of RD. The process to request a determination under this provision is outlined in paragraph (8)(ii) of this definition.
(i) The determination that an area is “rural in character” under this definition will apply to areas that are within:
(A) An urban area that has two points on its boundary that are at least 40 miles apart, which is not contiguous or adjacent to a city or town that has a population of greater than 150,000 inhabitants or the urban area of such a city or town; or
(B) An urban area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town of greater than 50,000 inhabitants that is within one-quarter mile of a Rural Area.
(ii) Units of local government may petition the Under Secretary of RD for a “rural in character” designation by submitting a petition to both the appropriate RD State Director and the Administrator on behalf of the Under Secretary. The petition shall document how the area meets the requirements of paragraph (8)(i)(A) or (B) of this definition and discuss why the petitioner believes the area is “rural in character,” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, and topography and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receiving a petition, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable Governor or leader in a similar position and request comments to be submitted within five (5) business days, unless such comments were submitted with the petition. The Under Secretary will release to the public a notice of a petition filed by a unit of local government not later than 30 days after receipt of the petition by way of publication in a local newspaper and posting on the Agency's website, and the Under Secretary will make a determination not less than 15 days, but no more than 60 days, after the release of the notice. Upon a negative determination, the Under Secretary will provide to the petitioner an opportunity to appeal a determination to the Under Secretary, and the petitioner will have 10 business days to appeal the determination and provide further information for consideration.
Rural Development
(RD) refers to a mission area within the USDA which includes RBCS, the Rural Housing Service, and the Rural Utilities Service, and their successors.
State
means any of the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands of the United States, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
State Office
refers to USDA RD offices located in each State.
Subaward
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Technical Assistance
means the process of providing targeted support for the startup, expansion, and operational improvement of Cooperatively and Mutually Owned Businesses typically delivered via multiple contacts over a period of time. It includes the transfer of skills and knowledge through research and collection of information to provide guidance and advice; assessment and analysis through Feasibility Studies and Business Plans, customized training, written information, in person or virtual exchanges, web-based curricula, and webinars.
Underserved and Economically Distressed
has the meaning located in the annual notification issued on the program website.
Value-Added
means the incremental profit earned from each transaction or step in processing after deducting processing costs, depreciation, and other relevant expenses. Each stage of processing or ownership transfer typically adds value to a good, product, or service.
§ 4284.504
Exception authority.
The Administrator of the Agency may, on a case-by-case basis, grant an exception to any non-statutory requirement or provision of this subpart provided that such exception is in the best financial interests of the Federal Government. Exercise of this authority cannot be in conflict with applicable laws.
§ 4284.505
[Reserved]
§ 4284.506
Conflict of interest.
No conflict of interest or appearance of conflict of interest will be allowed.
(a)
Description.
A conflict of interest occurs in a situation in which a person or entity has a competing, or the appearance of a competing, personal, professional, or financial interest that makes it difficult for the person or entity to act impartially. For purposes of this subpart, interactions among the following individuals constitute a conflict of interest or appearance of a conflict of interest:
(1) Applicant Board, employees, consultants, and contractors.
(2) Recipient Board, employees, consultants, and contractors.
(3) Center Board, employees, consultants, and contractors.
(4) Subrecipients and their employees, consultants, and contractors.
(5) Immediate family members of those listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.
(b)
Written disclosure.
Recipients must comply with 2 CFR 400.2(b), which requires written disclosure of any potential conflicts of interest and maintaining written standards of conduct covering conflicts of interest and governing the performance of its employees in the selection, award, and administration of Federal Awards.
(c)
Assistance to employees, relatives, and associates.
The Agency will process any requests for assistance under this subpart in accordance with 7 CFR part 1900, subpart D.
(d)
Member/delegate clause.
No member of or delegate to Congress shall receive any share or part of this grant or any benefit that may arise therefrom; but this provision shall not be construed to bar, as a contractor under the grant, a publicly held corporation whose ownership might include a member of Congress.
§ 4284.507
[Reserved]
§ 4284.508
Compliance with other laws and regulations.
The Agency, Applicants, and Recipients must comply with all applicable laws and regulations. An effort has been made to identify the most-commonly cited laws and regulations and to reference them as follows:
(a)
Federal laws.
Federal laws are codified in the United States Code (U.S.C.). A selection of laws is identified as follows:
(1) Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.
).
(2) Consumer Credit Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
).
(3) Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
).
(4) The Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI (42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.
).
(5) The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Section 504 (29 U.S.C. 794).
(b)
Federal regulations.
Federal regulations are codified in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). In particular, 2 CFR parts 1 through 200 address items such as universal identifiers, reporting Subaward and executive compensation, debarment and suspension, drug-free workplaces, administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements. We particularly encourage Applicants and Recipients to become familiar with 2 CFR part 200 in its entirety.
(c)
Departmental regulations.
Departmental regulations are those regulations that are specific to awards made through the USDA. They are codified in the CFR. A selection of applicable regulations is identified as follows:.
(1)
2 CFR parts 400 through 499.
These parts include USDA's adoption of Federal administrative requirements and cost principles. They also include regulations on debarment and suspension, lobbying, drug-free workplaces, and research awards.
(2)
7 CFR part 11.
This part includes USDA's procedures for administrative appeals, as handled by its National Appeals Division.
(3)
7 CFR part 15.
This part includes USDA's procedures for compliance with nondiscrimination laws and regulations.
(d)
Agency regulations.
Agency regulations are those regulations that are specific to awards made through the Agency and they may also be specific to a program. They are codified in the CFR. A selection of those regulations is as follows:
(1)
7 CFR part 1900.
This part covers delegations of authority, Adverse Decisions and administrative appeals, applicability of Federal law, and processing and servicing grant awards.
(2)
7 CFR part 1901, subpart E.
This subpart covers civil rights compliance requirements.
(3)
7 CFR part 1951.
This part covers servicing grant awards, including unauthorized assistance.
(4)
7 CFR part 1970.
This part covers environmental policies and considerations.
(e)
Access to laws and regulations.
(1) Laws may be accessed through the U.S.C. At the time this subpart was published, the U.S.C. may be accessed electronically at this website:
https://uscode.house.gov/.
(2) Regulations may be accessed through the CFR. At the time this subpart was published, the CFR may be
accessed electronically at this website:
https://www.ecfr.gov/.
§§ 4284.509-4284.519
[Reserved]
§ 4284.520
Applicant eligibility.
(a)
Eligible Applicants.
Applicants are eligible for assistance through this program if they meet the following requirements:
(1)
Applicant type.
A Nonprofit Institution.
(2)
Applicant location.
Applicant must be located in a State.
(3)
Unique entity identifier (UEI).
Applicants must have a UEI and active registration through the System for Award Management (SAM) at SAM.gov unless exempt under 2 CFR 25.110.
(4)
Multiple grant eligibility.
An Applicant may submit only one application in response to a solicitation. All applications submitted, regardless of the Applicant entity name, that include the same Executive Director, employees, Board, advisory boards or committees of an existing Center or a majority thereof will be determined ineligible for funding.
(b)
Ineligible Applicants.
Applicants are ineligible for assistance through this program if one or more of the following occurs:
(1) The Applicant is an individual, for-profit entity, or Public Body.
(2) The Applicant is debarred or suspended or is otherwise excluded from, or ineligible for participation in Federal assistance programs under Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension.” See 2 CFR part 417 for more information.
(3) The Applicant has an outstanding judgment obtained against the organization by the United States in a Federal Court (other than United States Tax Court).
(4) The Applicant is delinquent on the payment of Federal income taxes.
(5) The Applicant is delinquent on Federal debt.
(6) The Applicant has been convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the past 24 months.
(7) The Applicant has unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability.
(8) The Applicant has an award through this program that is not scheduled to end until after September 30 (for awards that began the preceding October 1) of the current Federal fiscal year, or December 31 (for awards that began the preceding January 1) of the current calendar year.
§ 4284.521
[Reserved]
§ 4284.522
Project eligibility.
(a)
Eligible Projects.
Eligible Projects must meet all of the following requirements. Failure to meet one or more of these requirements means that the application will not be considered for funding.
(1)
Rurality.
All Project activities must serve individuals, Cooperatively and Mutually Owned Businesses, small businesses, or other similar entities in Rural Areas.
(2)
Project focus.
The Project must focus on establishing or operating a Center with the goals of creating jobs in Rural Areas through the development of new Rural Cooperatives, Value-Added processing, and Rural businesses.
(3)
Amount requested.
The amount requested must not exceed any maximum amounts specified in the annual notification issued on the program website.
(4)
Matching Funds.
Matching Funds may be provided in cash by the Applicant, or cash or in-kind by a third party and are required for 25 percent (or 5 percent if a 1994 Institution) of the Project Cost. For example, if an Applicant requests an award amount of $150,000, the Matching Funds contribution must be $50,000, and the overall Project Cost is $200,000.
(i)
Matching Funds.
(A) Must be spent on eligible expenses.
(B) Must be from non-Federal sources unless authorized to be used as Matching Funds by the legislation authorizing the Federal source of funding.
(C) Must be spent in advance or as a pro-rata portion of grant funds being spent.
(ii)
In-kind contributions.
(A) Cannot include over-valued, in-kind contributions.
(B) You must be able to document and verify the number of hours worked and the value associated with any in-kind contribution being used to meet a Matching Funds requirement.
(C) In-kind contributions provided by individuals, businesses, or Cooperatives which are being assisted by the Center cannot be provided for the direct benefit of their own Projects as USDA RD considers this to be a conflict of interest.
(5)
Use of funds.
The Project must use grant and Matching Funds for allowable purposes. See § 4284.525.
(6)
Period of Performance.
The Period of Performance cannot exceed one (1) year. The grant period should begin no earlier than October 1 (the beginning of the Federal fiscal year) and no later than January 1 (the beginning of the calendar year).
(b)
Ineligible Projects.
Projects are ineligible for assistance through this program if the application:
(1) Requests more than the maximum grant amount;
(2) Focuses assistance on one Cooperatively or Mutually Owned Business;
(3) Includes a conflict of interest (see § 4284.506) where the expenses associated with the conflict of interest exceed 10 percent of the Project Cost. If the costs associated with the conflict of interest are 10 percent or less, the process in paragraph (b)(4) of this section will be followed;
(4) Includes unallowable costs (see § 4284.525) totaling more than 10 percent of Project Costs. If the application includes 10 percent or less of Project Costs in unallowable costs, and the application is otherwise eligible and selected for funding, those unallowable costs must be removed. If time permits, the Agency may allow those unallowable costs to be replaced with allowable costs. Otherwise, the amount of the Award will be reduced accordingly. If we cannot determine the percentage of unallowable costs, your application will not be considered for funding.
§§ 4284.523-4284.524
[Reserved]
§ 4284.525
Use of grant and Matching Funds.
(a)
Allowable uses of grant and Matching Funds.
The following types of activities and expenses are allowable:
(1) Costs associated with establishing or operating a Center, including legal services, accounting services, clerical assistance, technical services, office supplies, hiring employees, monitoring contracts, professional development for staff, attending conferences that would advance Cooperative Development and its practice, and Board travel;
(2) Technical Assistance including Cooperative Development as defined in § 4284.503;
(3) Costs for coordination of services and sharing of information among the Centers; and
(4) Providing loans and/or grants as Subawards per 2 CFR part 200 for Technical Assistance including Cooperative Development.
(b)
Unallowable uses of grant and Matching Funds.
No funds under this subpart shall be used to:
(1) Pay for the preparation of the grant application;
(2) Pay any costs of the Project incurred prior to the date of grant approval;
(3) Pay expenses not directly related to the funded Project;
(4) Pay for Board/advisory council member's time;
(5) Pay for the Operating Costs of any entity receiving assistance from the Recipient;
(6) Fund R
D;
(7) Duplicate activities paid for by another Federal grant program or activities charged to a previous RCDG Project;
(8) Pay for assistance to any private business enterprise which does not have at least 51 percent ownership by those who are either citizens of the United States or reside in the United States after being legally admitted for permanent residence;
(9) Pay for any goods or services from a person or entity who has a conflict of interest with the Recipient;
(10) Pay any judgment or debt owed to the United States;
(11) Purchase or make improvements to Real Property;
(12) Plan, develop, repair, rehabilitate, acquire, or construct a building or facility;
(13) Purchase, lease purchase, or install Equipment;
(14) Purchase or pay for the repair of vehicles; or
(15) Fund activities considered unallowable by the applicable cost principles, mostly of which are included in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, or successor regulation.
§§ 4284.526-4284.529
[Reserved]
§ 4284.530
Notifications.
The Agency will issue any program notifications on the program website.
(a)
Amount of funding available.
The Agency will publish the amount of funding available for awards during each Fiscal Year within 30 calendar days of notification from OMB of the amount available.
(b)
Underserved and Economically Distressed Areas.
The Agency will publish the source for identifying Underserved and Economically Distressed areas no later than the date the application period opens.
(c)
Additional merit evaluation criteria.
The Agency may establish additional merit evaluation criteria to meet the Department's or Agency's key priorities, goals, and objectives. Any such criteria will be published no later than the date the application period opens.
(d)
Other.
The Agency will publish any other additional requirements or programmatic changes no later than the date the application period opens.
§ 4284.531
Application requirements.
All applications must include the following:
(a)
Application forms.
The following forms must be completed, signed, and submitted as part of the application. Any additional forms that may be required will be published in the applicable annual notification.
(1) SF-424, “Application for Federal Assistance.”
(2) SF-424 A, “Budget Information—Non-Construction Programs.”
(b)
Proposal.
Each proposal must contain the following items. Additional items may be requested and will be published in the applicable annual notification.
(1) Title page.
(2) Table of contents.
(3) A summary of the proposal should briefly describe the Center, the goals of the Project, and the amount requested.
(4) Applicants must discuss how the following are met:
(i) Eligibility requirements in § 4284.520; including how they identify as an Institution of Higher Education or Nonprofit Institution.
(ii) Project eligibility requirements in § 4284.522; and
(iii) Eligible use of grant and Matching Funds requirements in § 4284.525.
(5) The proposal narrative should address how the Center will improve the economic conditions of Rural Areas by providing Technical Assistance including Cooperative Development. In particular, the Applicant must:
(i) Substantiate that the Center will use RCDG funds to serve Rural Areas in the United States as defined in § 4284.503.
(ii) Provide a description of the contributions that this Project is likely to make that will improve the economic conditions of the Rural Areas served by the Center.
(iii) Discuss how the Center, in carrying out the activities, will seek, where appropriate, the advice, participation, expertise, and assistance of representatives of business, industry, educational institutions, the Federal Government, Tribal Governments, and State and local governments.
(iv) Discuss how the Center intends to take all practicable steps to develop continuing sources of financial support for the Center, particularly from sources in the private sector. Applicants should indicate what financial support has been received in the past three (3) years from private sources and share plans of how the Applicant intends to secure long term sustainability of the Center.
(v) Merit evaluation criteria must be addressed in narrative form by the Applicant.
(A)
Experience.
Describe the Center's experience in Technical Assistance including Cooperative Development. Include the Center's role and accomplished outcomes for each organization assisted. Described experience must be within the last three (3) years. Centers that are not yet established should discuss the expertise and track record of Key Personnel expected to perform activities related to the Project. Provide the following for each organization assisted:
(
1
) Name of organization;
(
2
) Organization's complete address;
(
3
) Indicate whether the service location is Rural;
(
4
) Indicate whether the organization is Cooperatively or Mutually owned;
(
5
) Discussion on the Applicant's role(s) in providing Technical Assistance, including Cooperative Development;
(
6
) Date(s) of service;
(
7
) Indicate if a Cooperatively or Mutually Owned Business was established as a result of the Cooperative Development services provided;
(
8
) Date the Cooperatively or Mutually Owned Business was established;
(
9
) Indicate whether the Cooperatively or Mutually Owned Business is active or inactive;
(
10
) Discussion on any New Cooperative Approach used; and
(
11
) Discussion on the outcomes of the assistance, including but not limited to, the retention of Cooperatively or Mutually Owned Businesses, jobs created and/or saved, or other economic conditions (
e.g.,
number of housing units, number of childcare spaces, etc.).
(B)
Work plan and budget.
All tasks in the work plan and budget must be for allowable uses of funds. For each task, the following must be provided:
(
1
) A detailed narrative description, for each of the Technical Assistance, Cooperative Development, and Networking tasks as well as any Subawards for loans and/or grants. Applicants must identify project partners for Networking tasks;
(
2
) A detailed breakdown of all estimated Project Costs including Operating Costs, with grant and Matching Funds identified separately;
(
3
) Key Personnel that will be responsible for overseeing and/or conducting each task;
(
4
) A specific timeframe corresponding to the actual time each task is estimated to be completed; and
(
5
) Zip code for each of the organizations being assisted who are located in Underserved and Economically Distressed areas.
(C)
Qualifications of Key Personnel.
Key Personnel are expected to be qualified, committed, and available during the Period of Performance. The following must be provided for each Key Personnel identified in the work plan and budget.
(
1
) Name of Key Personnel;
(
2
) A summary of formal training and/or skills and years of experience directly related to the task(s) to be performed as outlined in the work plan and budget; and
(
3
) For Key Personnel to be hired, list the necessary qualifications needed to complete Project task(s).
(D)
Verification of Matching Funds.
Applicants must provide authentic documentation from the source(s) of Matching Funds to confirm the eligibility and availability of both cash and in-kind contributions that meet the Matching Funds requirements as defined in §§ 4284.503 and 4284.522. If selected for funding, Matching Funds will be reverified before a Financial Assistance Agreement is executed.
(vi) Applicants must certify that Matching Funds will be spent at the same time grant funds are anticipated to be spent and that expenditures of Matching Funds shall be pro-rated or spent in advance of grant funding, such that for every dollar of the grant funds requested, at least 25 cents (5 cents for 1994 Institutions) of Matching Funds will be expended.
(vii) To measure the success of the Project in a quantitative way, Applicants must have baseline and target performance metrics and will have a baseline metric of zero. Applicants must provide a target metric for each of the following performance metrics:
(A) Number of Rural groups assisted.
(B) Number of Cooperatives assisted.
(
1
) Number of jobs created/saved.
(
2
) Number of jobs created/saved in Underserved and Economically Distressed areas.
(C) Number of Mutually Owned Businesses (LLC/LLP) assisted.
(
1
) Number of jobs created/saved.
(
2
) Number of jobs created/saved in Underserved and Economically Distressed areas.
(D) Number of other businesses assisted.
(
1
) Number of jobs created/saved.
(
2
) Number of jobs created/saved in Underserved and Economically Distressed areas.
(E) Number of Business Plans developed.
(F) Number of Cooperatives incorporated.
(G) Number of Feasibility Studies completed.
(H) Number of workshops/seminars conducted.
(I) Number of conferences held.
(
1
) Number of conferences conducted with other Centers.
(
2
) Number of conferences conducted with other organizations.
(J) If working with housing, number of housing units created/saved.
(K) For consumer co-ops (grocery, retail) number of people with access to goods or services.
(L) Financial loss avoided as a result of `no-go' decision in the Cooperative Development process.
(M) Any additional performance measures as outlined in your Financial Assistance Agreement, or specified in the annual notification.
(
1
) It is permissible to have a zero in a performance metric. Jobs created targets must be calculated based upon actual jobs to be created by the Center because of RCDG funding or actual jobs to be created by Cooperatively or Mutually Owned Businesses as a result of the assistance from the Center. Jobs saved targets must be calculated only on actual jobs that would have been lost if the Center did not receive RCDG funding or actual jobs that would have been lost without assistance from the Center.
(
2
) Additional performance metrics can be suggested, for example; where jobs created or jobs saved may not be a relevant indicator (
e.g.,
housing). These additional criteria must be specific and measurable performance metrics to be included in a Federal Financial Assistance Agreement.
§ 4284.532
[Reserved]
§ 4284.533
Submission requirements.
Unless otherwise specified in an annual notification issued under § 4284.530, the following requirements apply to all applications.
(a)
Submission period.
The application period opens on March 1 and closes 11:59 p.m. Eastern time, on June 1. Applicants are encouraged to submit their applications well in advance of the closing date to ensure timely receipt by the Agency.
(b)
Submission process.
The annual notification will be published on the OMB-designated governmentwide website and will provide instructions on how and where to submit completed applications for RCDG funding. All items required for the application must be submitted in a single application package. Revisions or additional information will not be accepted after the application period closes. Incomplete applications will be rejected and not considered for funding.
§§ 4284.534-4284.539
[Reserved]
§ 4284.540
Application processing.
The following information describes the way the Agency will process applications, including the evaluation of eligibility, risk, and merit.
(a)
Eligibility evaluation.
The Agency will review all applications to determine if they are eligible for assistance based on the requirements in this subpart and other applicable Federal laws and regulations. In particular, the Agency will check the OMB designated repository of government information and, applicants that are excluded from Federal funding will be determined ineligible (see 2 CFR 200.206 for more information). An application must include all application requirements identified in § 4284.531, or the Agency will determine that it is ineligible for assistance.
(b)
Risk evaluation.
The Agency will review those applications that are determined to be eligible for the program.
(1) Typically, the Agency will not determine that an application is ineligible for funding based on the results of the risk evaluation, unless the Agency cannot find a way to reasonably mitigate the risk posed by making an award.
(2) If risk evaluation findings identify significant shortcomings in the Applicant's ability to manage Federal funds, the Agency may determine that the application is ineligible for funding.
(3) The Agency will determine if the Applicant has satisfactory performance for all Federal Awards received in the last five (5) years, based upon review of deficiencies reported in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System, or its successor system, the Do Not Pay system, or its successor system, and the Agency's own internal financial and record-keeping systems and files. Satisfactory performance includes timely submission of required reports and documents, timely completion of tasks, and proper use of funds, including achieving the level of funds approved and committed for Underserved and Economically Distressed areas.
(c)
Merit evaluation (Up to 100 total points).
The Agency will conduct a merit evaluation for those applications that are determined to be eligible for the program. The merit evaluation will be conducted by a panel of USDA employees who will convene to reach a consensus on the merit of each eligible application. The merit evaluation will be based on the following criteria:
(1)
Experience (Up to 30 points).
The Agency will evaluate the Applicant's demonstrated experience in Technical Assistance including Cooperative Development; and effectiveness in accomplishing effective outcomes through the development of Cooperatively and Mutually Owned Businesses. Points will be awarded based on the following:
(i) Up to 5 points for track record in providing Technical Assistance to promote and assist the development of Cooperatively and Mutually Owned Businesses.
(ii) Up to 5 points for ability to facilitate Cooperative Development that results in the establishment of Cooperatively and Mutually Owned Businesses in Rural Areas.
(iii) Up to 5 points for ability to facilitate the establishment of New Cooperative Approaches in Rural Areas.
(iv) Up to 5 points for the ability to assist in the retention of businesses in Rural Areas.
(v) Up to 5 points for ability to create and/or save jobs that improve economic conditions of Rural Areas.
(vi) Up to 5 points for ability to improve other economic conditions in Rural Areas.
(2)
Work plan and budget (Up to 45 points).
The Agency will evaluate the Applicant's work plan and budget on its ability to provide a clear, logical, realistic and efficient use of grant and Matching Funds; level of commitment to Underserved and Economically Distressed areas; and Networking with States, Centers and other organizations engaged in Economic Development efforts in Rural Areas. Points will be awarded based on the following:
(i)
Work plan and budget detail.
Up to 30 points will be awarded as follows:
(A) 0 points will be awarded if the application does not address paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(B) through (E) of this section.
(B) Up to 10 points will be awarded if the application provides a detailed narrative description for each of the specific tasks to be completed.
(C) Up to 10 points will be awarded if the application provides a detailed breakdown of all estimated Project Costs, including Operating Costs, for each task with grant and Matching Funds identified separately.
(D) Up to 5 points will be awarded if the application identifies the Key Personnel associated with each task.
(E) Up to 5 points will be awarded if the application provides specific timeframes for each task.
(ii)
Underserved and Economically Distressed.
Up to 15 points will be awarded to Applicants whose work plans and budgets demonstrate their commitment to Underserved and Economically Distressed area(s) as defined in the annual notification.
(A) 0 points will be awarded if the application does not identify tasks and a budget commitment to Underserved and Economically Distressed area(s).
(B) Up to 5 points will be awarded if the Applicant identifies the Underserved and Economically Distressed area(s) within their service area.
(C) Up to 10 points will be awarded if the Applicant's budget commitment (grant and Matching Funds) to Underserved and Economically Distressed areas is:
(
1
) Less than 5 percent budget commitment = 2 points.
(
2
) 5 percent or greater but less than 10 percent budget commitment = 4 points.
(
3
) 10 percent or greater but less than 25 percent budget commitment = 6 points.
(
4
) 25 percent or greater but less than 50 percent budget commitment = 8 points.
(
5
) 50 percent or more budget commitment = 10 points.
(3)
Networking.
Up to 10 points will be awarded to Applicants who demonstrate a commitment to Networking and plan to develop multi-organizational and multi-State Cooperative Development approaches.
(i) Up to 5 points will be awarded if the Applicant describes how it intends to create and share best practices and transferrable strategies with other Centers or organizations engaged in Economic Development.
(ii) Up to 5 points will be awarded if the Applicant describes how it will develop joint Technical Assistance, including Cooperative Development, projects and mentor/mentee relationships with other Centers and other organizations engaged in Economic Development.
(4)
Qualifications of Key Personnel (Up to 10 points).
The Agency will evaluate if the Key Personnel listed in the work plan and budget are qualified for their related task(s). Points will be awarded as follows:
(i) 0 points will be awarded if the Applicant does not identify formal training, skills, and years of experience for any Key Personnel.
(ii) 1 to 5 points will be awarded if the Applicant details the formal training, skills, and years of experience of some, but not all of the Key Personnel.
(iii) 6 to 10 points will be awarded if the Applicant details the formal training, skills, and years of experience of all Key Personnel.
(5)
Matching Funds commitment (5 points).
Applicants must meet the Matching Funds requirement to be considered for points. Applicants who meet the 25 percent (5 percent for 1994 Institutions) Matching Funds requirement will receive 5 points.
§ 4284.541
Application withdrawal.
During the period between the submission of the application and award approval, the Applicant must notify the Agency if the Project is no longer viable, or the Applicant is no longer requesting financial assistance for the Project. When the Applicant notifies the Agency, the application will be withdrawn from consideration for funding.
§§ 4284.542-4284.549
[Reserved]
§ 4284.550
Award selection.
Applications will be selected for further processing and consideration of an award after the merit evaluation process is completed for all eligible applications. Applications will be ranked solely based on the points awarded, and they will be funded in rank order until available funds are expended. If there is a tie, the Administrator of the Agency will use discretion to break the tie to improve the geographic diversity of Recipients and/or prioritize Projects that advance the Department or Agency's key priorities, goals, and objectives. If an application cannot be fully funded, the Agency may offer partial funding to the extent funds are available. If an application is ranked and not funded, it will not be carried forward into the next funding competition.
§ 4284.551
Notification of successful Applicants.
(a) The Agency will notify the Applicants whose applications can be funded using available funds with a Letter of Conditions. The Letter of Conditions will provide the conditions under which an award can be approved as well as a copy of the term of the award.
(b) Applicants receiving a Letter of Conditions will have 60 calendar days to meet the conditions of the award.
Some awards may be subject to additional conditions, depending on the nature of the Project and the Agency's determination of risk. The following additional forms must be completed by all successful Applicants:
(1) Form RD 1942-46, “Letter of Intent to Meet Conditions.”
(2) Form RD 1940-1, “Request for Obligation of Funds.”
(3) Form RD 400-4, “Assurance Agreement.”
(4) SF-LLL, “Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,” for entities that engage in lobbying activities.
(5) Form RD 4280-2, “Rural Business-Cooperative Service Financial Assistance Agreement.”
§ 4284.552
Notification of unsuccessful Applicants.
Applicants whose applications are ineligible for financial assistance or did not score high enough to be funded will be notified as soon as is practicable. The notification will be in writing using an Adverse Decision Letter. This letter will outline the reason(s) for the Agency's decision and any dispute resolution alternatives available to the Applicant.
§ 4284.553
Award approval.
Applicants whose applications are eligible for financial assistance and that score high enough to be funded will have their awards approved by the Agency once the Applicant has met all of the conditions of the award. The approval will be conveyed through the execution of Form RD 4280-2, which is the Financial Assistance Agreement, and provides all terms of the award. Once the award has been approved, the Recipient may begin work on the Project and incur costs.
§ 4284.554
Multi-year award.
The Agency may provide a multi-year funding opportunity to previous Recipients. If the Agency provides a multi-year funding opportunity, the application requirements and award process will be included in the annual notification.
§§ 4284.555-4284.559
[Reserved]
§ 4284.560
Reporting requirements.
Recipients are required to submit financial reports and performance reports on a semi-annual basis. A final financial report and performance report must also be submitted within 120 days after the expiration or termination of the grant.
(a) Failure to submit either a financial report or a performance report within the specified timeframes may result in the Agency withholding grant funds.
(b) Recipients must complete the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in the approved work plan and budget, the Financial Assistance Agreement, and the Letter of Conditions.
(c) Recipients must expend funds only for eligible purposes and will be monitored by the Agency for compliance. Recipients must maintain a financial management system and maintain compliance with Federal Cost Principles in accordance with 2 CFR parts 200 through 299.
(1)
Reporting format and timing.
All performance reports must include a discussion on the performance metrics discussed in the application to determine whether the primary goals and objectives proposed in the approved work plan and budget were accomplished during the reporting period. Formatting of financial reports and performance reports, as well as timing for submission of these reports can be found in the Financial Assistance Agreement.
(2)
Project outcome performance report.
Once the Project is complete, the Recipient must provide the Agency with two annual outcome performance reports. Formatting and submission requirements for this report are included in the Financial Assistance Agreement.
§ 4284.561
Monitoring awards.
Awards will be monitored by Agency personnel in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and policies (see § 4284.508 for more information). The Agency will designate a contact person for each award. The Agency may terminate or suspend the award for lack of adequate or timely progress, reporting,
documentation, or for failure to comply with Agency requirements.
§§ 4284.562-4284.599
[Reserved]
§ 4284.600
OMB control number.
The reporting and recordkeeping requirements contained in this subpart have been approved by OMB and have been assigned OMB control number 0570-0006 in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
Subparts G-I [Reserved]

# Subpart J—Value-Added Producer Grant Program

# Source:
89 FR 75778, Sept. 16, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 4284.901
Purpose.
This subpart implements the Value-Added Agricultural Product Market Development grant program (Value-Added Producer Grants (VAPG)) that provides grants to support Agricultural Producers' for-profit businesses that produce and market Value-Added Agricultural Products.
§ 4284.902
Organization of subpart.
The information in this subpart is organized into six main topics:
(a)
General information.
Sections 4284.901 through 4284.919 discuss the purpose of the program, definitions, exception authority, conflict of interest, compliance with other laws and regulations, and reserved funds.
(b)
Eligibility information.
Sections 4284.920 through 4284.929 discuss the eligibility requirements for the program. The sections include information on Applicant eligibility, Project eligibility, reserved funds eligibility, priority points eligibility, and the use of funds.
(c)
Application requirements information.
Sections 4284.930 through 4284.939 discuss the requirements for submitting an application. The sections include information on what forms and other information are required for a complete application as well as the format of the application, the application deadline, and how to submit the application.
(d)
Application processing information.
Sections 4284.940 through 4284.949 discuss how the Agency will process applications. The sections include information on how applications will be reviewed for eligibility, how applications will be evaluated for merit, and how an Applicant can withdraw an application from consideration.
(e)
Award information.
Sections 4284.950 through 4284.959 discuss how the Agency will make awards. The sections include information about how applications will be selected for funding, how Applicants will be notified whether their applications have been selected for funding, how Applicants can resolve disputes regarding funding selections, and the requirements for an Applicant to accept an award and be approved as a recipient of an award.
(f)
Post-award information.
Sections 4284.960 through 4284.962 discuss the reporting requirements for recipients after an award is approved as well as monitoring procedures that the Agency will use.
(g)
Other.
(1) Sections 4284.963 through 4284.999 are reserved.
(2) Section 4284.1000 includes the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control number for reporting and recordkeeping requirements under this subpart.
§ 4284.903
Definitions.
These are the definitions for terms used in this subpart. Additional defined terms used in this subpart may be found in the applicable laws and regulations cited in § 4284.908, in particular 2 CFR part 200. If a term is defined differently in an applicable regulation and in this subpart, such term shall have the meaning as found in this subpart.
Agency
means the Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBCS or the Agency), an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA or the Department), or a successor agency.
Agricultural Commodity
means an unprocessed product of Farms, Ranches, nurseries, and forests and natural and man-made bodies of water, that the Agricultural Producer has cultivated, raised, or harvested with legal access rights. Agricultural Commodities include plant and animal products and
their by-products, such as crops, forestry products, hydroponics, nursery stock, aquaculture, meat, on-Farm generated manure, and fish and seafood products. Agricultural Commodities do not include animals raised or sold as pets, such as cats, dogs, and ferrets.
Agricultural Food Product
refers to raw, cooked, or processed edible substances, beverages, or ingredients intended for human consumption.
Agricultural Producer, Independent Producer or Producer
means a for-profit agricultural business, or entity that is 100 percent owned and controlled by an individual, entity or Family Farm that produces an Agricultural Commodity through participation in the day-to-day labor, management, and field operations; or that has the legal right to harvest an Agricultural Commodity that is the subject of the VAPG Project.
Agricultural Producer Group
means a non-profit membership organization that represents Agricultural Producers and whose mission includes working on behalf of Agricultural Producers and more than 50 percent of whose membership and board of directors is comprised of Agricultural Producers.
Applicant
means the legal entity and/or owner(s) of the legal entity (regardless of ownership percentage), submitting an application to participate in the competition for program funding.
Beginning Farmer or Rancher
means an Agricultural Producer (other than a Harvester) that has operated a Farm or Ranch for no more than 10 years or an eligible Applicant entity that has an ownership or membership of more than 50 percent farmers or ranchers each of whom have operated a Farm or Ranch for no more than 10 years.
Business Plan
means a formal statement of a set of business goals, the reasons why they are believed attainable, and the plan for reaching those goals, including Pro Forma Financial Statements appropriate to the term and scope of the Project and sufficient to evidence the viability of the Project. It may also contain background information about the organization or team attempting to reach those goals.
Change in Physical State
means an irreversible processing activity that alters the Agricultural Commodity into a substantially different, marketable Value-Added Agricultural Product. This processing activity must be something other than a post-harvest process that primarily acts to preserve the commodity for later sale.
Emerging Market
means a developing, geographic or demographic market that has been supplied by the Applicant or the Applicant's product for two (2) years or less.
Equipment
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Family Farm
means a Farm or Ranch whose owner(s) are primarily responsible for daily physical labor, business and/or strategic management; whose hired help only supplements family labor; and whose owners are related by blood or marriage or are Immediate Family.
Farm or Ranch
means any place from which $1,000 or more of Agricultural Commodities were raised and sold or would have been raised and sold during the previous year, but for an event beyond the control of the farmer or rancher.
Farm- or Ranch-Based Renewable Energy
means renewable energy generated by use of an Agricultural Commodity on a Farm or Ranch, owned or leased by an Agricultural Producer, which provides the Agricultural Producer with an expanded customer base and increased revenues.
Farmer or Rancher Cooperative
means a business owned and controlled by Agricultural Producers that is incorporated, or otherwise identified by the State in which it operates, as a cooperatively operated business. The Agricultural Producers, on whose behalf the value-added work will be done, must be identified by name or class.
Feasibility Study
means a comprehensive analysis of the economic, market, technical, financial, and management capabilities of a Project or business in terms of the Project's expectation for success.
Fiscal Year
means the Federal Government's fiscal year, October 1 of a given year through September 30 of the succeeding year.
Food Safety
refers to conditions and practices that preserve the quality of food to prevent contamination and food-borne illnesses.
Harvester
means an Agricultural Producer that can document legal rights to access and harvest the Agricultural Commodity that will be used for the Value-Added Agricultural Product. This does not include harvesting rights for cultivated commodities. Individuals and entities that merely glean, gather, or collect residual commodities that result from an initial harvesting or production of a primary Agricultural Commodity are not considered Harvesters and are not eligible for this program.
Independent Producer
has the same meaning as Agricultural Producer in this section.
Immediate Family
means individuals who are closely related by blood, marriage, or adoption, or live within the same household, such as a spouse, domestic partner, parent, child, brother, sister, aunt, uncle, grandparent, grandchild, niece, or nephew.
Key Personnel
means the owners, employees, new hires, consultants, and/or contractors who will be overseeing and/or completing the tasks in the work plan.
Letter of Conditions
means the letter that the Agency issues to an entity whose application is selected for funding. The letter outlines all of the conditions of the award that must be met before the award can be approved. Other agencies may call this letter an Award Letter or Award Notice.
Local or Regional Supply Network
means an interconnected group of individuals and/or entities through which agricultural based products move from production through consumption in a local or regional area of a State.
Locally-Produced Agricultural Food Product
refers to raw, cooked, or processed edible substances, beverages, or ingredients intended for human consumption that are raised, produced, and distributed in:
(1) The locality or region in which the final product is marketed, so that the total distance that the product is transported is less than 400 miles from the origin of the product; or
(2) The State in which the product is produced.
Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Venture
refers to a venture greater than 50 percent of the ownership and control of which is held by—
(1) One or more Producers (Agricultural Producers); or
(2) One or more entities, 100 percent of the ownership and control of which is held by one or more Producers (Agricultural Producers). The term `entity' means—
(i) A partnership;
(ii) A limited liability corporation;
(iii) A limited liability partnership; or
(iv) A corporation.
Market Expansion
means a Project in which the Agricultural Producer Applicant seeks to expand the market either geographically or demographically for an existing Value-Added Agricultural Product produced and marketed by the Applicant for at least two (2) years at the time of the application through sales to demonstrably new markets or new customers in existing markets.
Marketing Plan
means a plan for the Project that identifies a market window, potential buyers, a description of the distribution system and possible promotional campaigns.
Matching Funds
means a cost-sharing contribution to the Project that is at least equal to the grant amount. Combined grant and Matching Funds equal 100 percent of the Project Costs.
Medium-Sized Farm or Ranch
means a Farm or Ranch that is structured as a Family Farm that has averaged $500,001 to $1,000,000 in annual gross sales of Agricultural Commodities in the previous three (3) years.
Mid-Tier Value Chain
refers to local and regional supply networks that link Agricultural Producers with businesses, cooperatives, or consumers that market Value-Added Agricultural Products in a manner that:
(1) Targets and strengthens the profitability and competitiveness of Small- and Medium-Sized Farms or Ranches that are structured as a Family Farm; and
(2) Obtains agreement from an eligible Agricultural Producer Group, Farmer or Rancher Cooperative, or Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Venture that is engaged in the value chain on a marketing strategy.
Period of Performance
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Physical Segregation
means separating an Agricultural Commodity or product on the same Farm from other varieties of the same commodity or product on the same Farm during production and harvesting, with assurance of continued separation from similar commodities during processing and marketing in a manner that results in the enhancement of the value of the separated commodity or product.
Planning Grant
means a grant to facilitate the development of a defined program of economic planning activities to determine the viability of a potential value-added Project, and specifically for the purpose of paying for conducting and developing a Feasibility Study, Business Plan, and/or Marketing Plan associated with the processing and/or marketing of a Value-Added Agricultural Product.
Produced in a Manner that Enhances the Value of the Agricultural Commodity
refers to the use of a recognizably coherent set of agricultural production practices in the growing or raising of the Agricultural Commodity, such that a differentiated market identity is created for the resulting product.
Producer
has the same meaning as Agricultural Producer in this section.
Pro forma Financial Statement
means a financial statement that projects the future financial position of a company. The statement is part of the Business Plan and includes an explanation of all assumptions, such as input prices, finished product prices, and other economic factors used to generate the financial statements. The statement must include projections for a minimum of three (3) years in the form of cash flow statements, income statements, and balance sheets.
Program Income
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Project
means all of the eligible activities to be funded by the grant and Matching Funds.
Project Cost
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Qualified Consultant
means a third-party, without a conflict of interest, possessing the knowledge, expertise, and experience to perform the specific task required in an efficient, effective, and authoritative manner.
Recipient
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Rural Development (RD)
means a mission area within USDA, which includes the Rural Housing Service, Rural Utilities Service, and RBCS.
Small-Sized Farm or Ranch
means a Farm or Ranch that is structured as a Family Farm that has averaged $500,000 or less in annual gross sales of Agricultural Commodities in the previous three (3) years.
Socially-Disadvantaged Farmer or Rancher
means a farmer or rancher who is a member of a Socially-Disadvantaged Group.
Socially-Disadvantaged Group
means a group whose members have been subjected to racial, ethnic, or gender prejudice because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities.
State
means any of the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Steering Committee
means an unincorporated group comprised wholly of specifically identified Agricultural Producers in the process of organizing one of the program eligible Applicant types.
TTB Permit
means a permit issued by the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB), U.S. Department of the Treasury, granting approval to operate a TTB-regulated alcohol business.
Value-Added Agricultural Product
means any Agricultural Commodity produced in a State that:
(1) Meets one of the following methodologies:
(i) Has undergone a Change in Physical State;
(ii) Is Produced in a Manner that Enhances the Value of the Agricultural Commodity;
(iii) Is Physically Segregated in a manner that results in the enhancement of the value of the Agricultural Commodity;
(iv) Is a source of Farm- or Ranch-Based Renewable Energy, including E-85 fuel; or
(v) Is aggregated and marketed as a Locally Produced Agricultural Food Product; and
(2) As a result of the Change in Physical State or the manner in which the Agricultural Commodity was produced, marketed, or segregated:
(i) The customer base for the Agricultural Commodity is expanded; and
(ii) A greater portion of the revenue derived from the marketing, processing, or Physical Segregation of the Agricultural Commodity is available to the Producer of the commodity.
Veteran Farmer or Rancher
means a farmer or rancher who has served in the Armed Forces, as defined in 7 U.S.C. 2279, and who either has not operated a Farm or Ranch or has operated a Farm or Ranch for not more than 10 years; or is a Veteran who first obtained status as a veteran during the most recent 10-year period.
Working Capital Grant
means a grant to provide funds to operate a value-added Project, specifically to pay the eligible Project expenses related to the processing and/or marketing of the Value-Added Agricultural Product.
§ 4284.904
Exception authority.
Except as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Administrator of the Agency may, on a case-by-case basis, grant an exception to any requirement or provision of this subpart provided that such an exception is in the best financial interests of the Federal Government. Exercise of this authority cannot be in conflict with applicable law.
(a)
Applicant eligibility.
No exception to Applicant eligibility can be made.
(b)
Project eligibility.
No exception to Project eligibility can be made.
§ 4284.905
[Reserved]
§ 4284.906
Conflict of interest.
No conflict of interest or appearance of a conflict of interest will be allowed.
(a)
Description.
A conflict of interest occurs in a situation in which a person or entity has competing personal, professional, or financial interests that make it difficult for the person or entity to act impartially. For the purposes of this subpart, relationships that can involve a conflict of interest include, but are not limited to:
(1) Recipient owners, employees, officers, agents, consultants, and contractors.
(2) Immediate family members of those listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)
Written disclosure.
Recipients must comply with 2 CFR 400.2(b), which includes providing written disclosure of any potential conflicts of interest and maintaining written standards of conduct covering conflicts of interest and governing the performance of its employees in the selection, award, and administration of Federal Awards.
(c)
Assistance to employees, relatives, and associates.
The Agency will process any requests for assistance under this subpart in accordance with 7 CFR part 1900, subpart D.
(d)
Member/delegate clause.
No member of or delegate to Congress shall receive any share or part of this grant or any benefit that may arise therefrom. But, this provision shall not be construed to bar, as a contractor under the Federal award, a publicly held corporation whose ownership might include a member of Congress.
§ 4284.907
[Reserved]
§ 4284.908
Compliance with other laws and regulations.
The Agency, Applicants, and recipients must comply with all applicable laws and regulations. An effort has been made to identify the most-commonly cited laws and regulations and reference them as follows:
(a)
Federal laws.
Federal laws are codified in the United States Code (U.S.C.). A selection of applicable laws is identified as follows:
(1) Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
);
(2) The Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI (42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.
); and
(3) The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Section 504 (29 U.S.C. 794).
(b)
Federal regulations.
Federal regulations are codified in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). A selection of applicable regulations is identified as follows:
(1)
2 CFR parts 1 through 200.
These parts address items such as universal identifiers, reporting subaward and executive compensation, debarment and suspension, drug-free workplaces, administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements. We particularly encourage Applicants and Recipients to become familiar with 2 CFR part 200 in its entirety.
(2)
27 CFR part 1.
This part is applicable to Applicants that will produce and market value-added products in the industries of wine, beer, distilled spirits or other alcoholic merchandise.
(c)
Departmental regulations.
Departmental regulations are those regulations that are specific to awards made through USDA. They are codified in the CFR. A selection of applicable regulations is identified as follows:
(1)
2 CFR parts 400 through 499.
These parts include USDA's adoption of Federal administrative requirements and cost principles. They also include regulations on debarment and suspension, lobbying, drug-free workplaces, and research awards.
(2)
7 CFR part 11.
This part includes USDA's procedures for administrative appeals, as handled by its National Appeals Division.
(3)
7 CFR part 15d.
This part includes USDA's procedures for compliance with nondiscrimination laws and regulations. The Agency will not discriminate against Applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, disability, or age (provided that the Applicant has the capacity to contract); because all or part of the Applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or because the Applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, 15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
(d)
Agency regulations.
Agency regulations are those regulations that are specific to awards made through the Agency and they may also be specific to a program. They are codified in the CFR. A selection of applicable regulations is identified as follows:
(1)
7 CFR part 1900.
This part covers delegations of authority, adverse decisions and administrative appeals, applicability of Federal law, and processing and servicing grant awards.
(2)
7 CFR part 1901, subpart E.
This subpart covers civil rights compliance requirements.
(3)
7 CFR part 1951.
This part covers servicing grant awards, including unauthorized assistance.
(4)
7 CFR part 1970.
This part covers environmental policies and procedures.
(5)
7 CFR part 990.
This part applies to Applicants who are proposing to produce, procure, supply or market any component of the hemp plant or hemp related by-products. Applicable Food and Drug Administration and Drug Enforcement Administration regulatory requirements must also be met.
(e)
Access to laws and regulations.
(1) Laws may be accessed through the U.S.C. At the time this subpart was published, the U.S.C. may be accessed electronically at this website:
https://uscode.house.gov/.
(2) Regulations may be accessed through the CFR. At the time this subpart was published, the CFR may be accessed electronically at this website:
https://www.ecfr.gov/.
§§ 4284.909-4284.915
[Reserved]
§ 4284.916
Reserved funds.
(a) The following reserved funds will be made available each Fiscal Year:
(1) 10 percent of total program funding to fund Projects that benefit Beginning Farmers or Ranchers or Socially-Disadvantaged Farmers or Ranchers; and
(2) 10 percent of total program funding to fund Projects where a majority of the requested grant amount goes to improving Food Safety for the purpose of enhancing market access; and
(3) 10 percent of total program funding to fund Projects that propose development of Mid-Tier Value Chains.
(b) Reserved funds not obligated by September 30 of each Fiscal Year shall be available to the Secretary in the next Fiscal Year to make grants under this subpart to eligible Applicants in the general funds competition.
§§ 4284.917-4284.919
[Reserved]
§ 4284.920
Eligible Applicants.
Applicants are eligible for assistance through this program if all of the following requirements are met:
(a)
System for Award Management (SAM) registration, General Certifications and Representations and unique entity identifier (UEI).
At the time of application, each Applicant must have an active registration in SAM before submitting its application in accordance with 2 CFR part 25. This registration must remain current, accurate and complete at all times during which the Applicant has an active Federal award or an application under consideration. The Applicant must also obtain a UEI through
SAM.gov.
(b)
Legal authority.
Applicants must certify that they have the legal authority to carry out the purpose of the grant, and/or their business is in good standing in the State where it is incorporated and/or in the State that is the primary location of an applicant's business operations for the VAPG Project.
(c)
Applicant type.
The Applicant meets the definition for one of the following Applicant types—Agricultural Producer, Agricultural Producer Group, Farmer or Rancher Cooperative, or Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Venture.
(1)
Agricultural Producer.
An Applicant applying as an Agricultural Producer must identify each owner member by name or class, provide the percentage of ownership of each owner member, and discuss how each owner member meets the definition of Agricultural Producer.
(i) A Steering Committee must apply as an Agricultural Producer and discuss how it intends to form a program-eligible legal entity prior to execution of the Financial Assistance Agreement by the Agency.
(ii) A Harvester must apply as an Agricultural Producer and document its legal right to access and harvest the Agricultural Commodity that will be used for the Value-Added Agricultural Product.
(2)
Agricultural Producer Group.
An Applicant applying as an Agricultural Producer Group must identify each Agricultural Producer member by name or class, provide the percentage of ownership of each member, discuss how each member meets the definition of Agricultural Producer, and discuss how the Applicant meets the definition of Agricultural Producer Group.
(3)
Farmer or Rancher Cooperative.
An Applicant applying as a Farmer or Rancher Cooperative must discuss how they meet the definition of Farmer or Rancher Cooperative.
(4)
Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Venture.
An Applicant applying as a Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Venture must discuss how it meets the definition of Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Venture.
(d)
Ownership and control.
(1) For the Project, the Applicant must produce and own more than 50 percent of the Agricultural Commodity to which value will be added. Agricultural Producers must maintain ownership of the Agricultural Commodity or product from its raw state through the production and marketing of the Value-Added Agricultural Product. All Applicants applying for Working Capital Grant funds must document the quantity of each Agricultural Commodity that will be used for the Value-Added Agricultural Product, expressed in an appropriate unit of measure (pounds, tons, bushels, etc.) to demonstrate the scale of the Applicant's Project. This quantification must include an estimated total quantity of each Agricultural Commodity needed for the Project, the quantity that will be provided (produced and owned) by the Agricultural Producers of the Applicant organization, and the quantity that will be purchased or donated from third-party sources.
(2) Applicants who produce the Agricultural Commodity under contract for another entity, but do not own the Agricultural Commodity or Value-Added Agricultural Product produced, are not considered Agricultural Producers. Entities that contract out the production of an Agricultural Commodity are not considered Agricultural Producers. Agricultural Producer entities must confirm their owner members as eligible and must identify them by name or class.
(3) The Agency will determine the Agricultural Producer status of Tribes or Tribal entities without regard to ownership of the commodity to which value will be added so long as the Tribal member participant, Tribal entity and/or Tribe own and control more
than 50 percent of the Agricultural Commodity necessary for the Project.
(e)
Emerging Market.
An Applicant that is an Agricultural Producer Group, a Farmer or Rancher Cooperative, or a Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Venture must demonstrate that it is entering into an Emerging Market as a result of the Project. An Agricultural Producer Applicant type that has produced and marketed the Value-Added Agricultural Product for less than two (2) years must also demonstrate that it is entering an Emerging Market.
(f)
Citizenship.
An Applicant must certify that it is more than 50 percent owned by individuals who are either a citizen or national of a State or reside in the United States after legal admittance for permanent residence.
(g)
Multiple grants.
An Applicant must submit only one application in response to a solicitation and may have only one active VAPG award at any given time unless the Applicant is also applying as a member of a Farmer or Rancher Cooperative or an Agricultural Producer Group. In addition, the following restrictions apply:
(1) Applicants who have already received a Planning Grant for the Project cannot receive another Planning Grant for the same Project; and
(2) Applicants who have already received a Working Capital Grant for the Project cannot receive any additional grants for that Project.
(h)
Current VAPG award.
If an Applicant has a current VAPG award at the time of subsequent competition, the Applicant must exhaust all VAPG award funds and submit final financial and performance reports to the Agency by the application submission deadline for the subsequent VAPG competition. If VAPG award funds will not be spent by the subsequent VAPG application submission deadline, the Applicant must request a cancellation of the current VAPG award prior to the subsequent application submission deadline.
§ 4284.921
Ineligible Applicants.
Applicants are ineligible for assistance through this program if one or more of the following has occurred:
(a) The Applicant is debarred or suspended or is otherwise excluded from, or ineligible for participation in, Federal assistance programs under Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension.”
(b) An outstanding judgement has been obtained against the Applicant by the United States in a Federal court (other than U.S. Tax Court).
(c) The Applicant is delinquent on the payment of Federal income taxes or is delinquent on Federal debt.
(d) The Applicant has been convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the past 24 months.
(e) The Applicant has unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability.
(f) The Applicant submits multiple applications from separate entities, owners, and/or owner(s) of the legal entity (regardless of ownership percentage), or from a parent, subsidiary or affiliated organization (with “affiliation” defined by the Small Business Administration regulation 13 CFR 121.103, or successor regulation) during the same grant cycle. This is not applicable to Applicants who are also applying as a member of a Farmer or Rancher Cooperative or an Agricultural Producer Group.
§ 4284.922
Project eligibility.
Eligible Projects must meet all of the following requirements. Failure to meet one or more of these requirements means that the application will not be eligible for funding.
(a)
Project focus.
The Project must focus on allowable Planning or Working Capital Grant activities as described at § 4284.925, as applicable, with eligible tasks directly related to the processing and/or marketing of the subject Value-Added Agricultural Product.
(b)
Project type.
The Project must fit one of the following purposes:
(1) Emerging Market Project as defined in § 4284.903.
(2) Market Expansion Project as defined in § 4284.903.
(3) Food Safety Project as defined in § 4284.903.
(c)
Product(s).
Each product that is the subject of the Project must meet the definition of a Value-Added Agricultural Product. The Applicant must be currently producing the Agricultural Commodity for each Value-Added Agricultural Product that is the subject of the Project. All Applicants seeking Working Capital Grant funds must also be marketing the subject Value-Added Agricultural Product(s) or ready to implement the Working Capital Grant activities in accord with the budget and work plan timeline.
(d)
Amount requested.
The amount requested must not exceed any maximum amounts specified in the annual notification issued on the program website, per § 4284.930.
(e)
Period of Performance.
The Period of Performance cannot exceed three (3) years.
(f)
Matching Funds.
Matching Funds must come from eligible sources without a real or apparent conflict of interest and be used for eligible Project expenses during the Period of Performance. Matching Funds must be confirmed and provided in the form of:
(1) Applicant or third-party cash;
(2) Applicant loan, or line of credit;
(3) Non-Federal grant sources (unless otherwise provided by law); or
(4) Applicant, family member, or third-party in-kind contribution.
(i) In-kind contributions must be appropriately valued with an adequate explanation of the basis for the valuation (
e.g.,
reference comparable market values, salary and wage data, expertise or experience of the contributor, per unit costs, industry norms).
(ii) Applicant in-kind contributions may include the value of the Agricultural Commodity inventory to be used in the Project and can be used to satisfy up to 100 percent of the Matching Funds requirement. Third-party in-kind contributions of the Agricultural Commodity inventory to be used in the Project can be used to satisfy up to 49 percent of the Matching Funds requirement.
(iii) Applicant in-kind contributions may also include Applicant or family time spent on eligible tasks; however, the valuation cannot exceed 50 percent of the Matching Funds required for the Project. Final valuation for Applicant or family member in-kind contributions is at the discretion of the Agency.
§ 4284.923
Reserved funds eligibility.
Applicants must meet the applicable requirements in this section to compete for reserved funds.
(a)
Beginning Farmer or Rancher.
Applicants must demonstrate that they meet the definition of a Beginning Farmer or Rancher. The Applicant must self-certify that more than 50 percent of its owners are a Beginning Farmer or Rancher.
(b)
Socially-Disadvantaged Farmer or Rancher.
Applicants must demonstrate that an individual or individuals that qualify as a Socially-Disadvantaged Farmer or Rancher own more than 50 percent of the Applicant Farm or Ranch organization. Applicants must provide a self-certification from the individual owner(s) indicating they are a member of a Socially-Disadvantaged Group.
(c)
Food Safety.
If the Applicant is applying for Food Safety reserved funds, the Applicant must describe the need or requirement for training, certifications, and/or supplies and equipment. This reserve is for Applicants where more than 50 percent of the Project Cost is for post-harvest Food Safety purposes related to the processing and/or marketing of a Value-Added Agricultural Product.
(d)
Mid-Tier Value Chain.
The Applicant must:
(1) Provide documentation demonstrating that the Project meets the definition of Mid-Tier Value Chain;
(2) Demonstrate that the Project proposes development of a Local or Regional Supply Network of an interconnected group of entities (including nonprofit organizations, as appropriate) through which Agricultural Commodities and Value-Added Agricultural Products move from production through consumption in a local or regional area of a State, including a description of the network, its component members, either by name or by class, and its purpose. Applicant ownership of the Agricultural Commodity and Value-Added Agricultural Product from raw through value-added stages is not necessarily required;
(3) Describe at least two alliances, linkages, or partnerships within the value chain that link Agricultural Producers with businesses, cooperatives, or consumers that market value-added Agricultural Commodities or Value-Added Agricultural Products in a manner that benefits Small- or Medium-Sized Farms and Ranches that are structured as a Family Farm, including the names of the parties and the nature of their collaboration;
(4) Demonstrate how the Project, due to the manner in which the Value-Added Agricultural Product is marketed, will increase the profitability and competitiveness of at least two eligible, Small- or Medium-Sized Farms or Ranches that are structured as a Family Farm, including a description of the two Farms or Ranches confirming they meet the Family Farm definition;
(5) Document that the eligible Agricultural Producer Group/Farmer or Rancher Cooperative/Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Venture Applicant organization has obtained at least one agreement with another member of the supply network that is engaged in the value chain on a marketing strategy; or that the eligible Agricultural Producer Applicant has obtained at least one agreement from an eligible Agricultural Producer Group/Farmer or Rancher Cooperative/Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Venture engaged in the value-chain on a marketing strategy;
(i) For Planning Grants, agreements may include letters of commitment or intent to partner on marketing, distribution or processing; and should include the names of the parties with a description of the nature of their collaboration. For Working Capital Grants, demonstration of the actual existence of the executed agreements is required; and
(ii) Agricultural Producer Applicants must provide documentation to confirm that the non-Applicant Agricultural Producer Group/Farmer or Rancher Cooperative/majority-controlled partnering entity meets program eligibility definitions, except that, in this context, the partnering entity does not need to supply any of the Agricultural Commodity for the Project;
(6) Demonstrate that the members of the Applicant organization that are benefiting from the Project currently own and produce more than 50 percent of the Agricultural Commodity that will be used for the Value-Added Agricultural Product that is the subject of the Project; and
(7) Demonstrate that the Project will result in an increase in customer base and an increase in revenue returns to the Applicant Producers supplying more than 50 percent of the Agricultural Commodity for the Project.
§ 4284.924
Priority points eligibility.
Applicants that demonstrate eligibility may apply for priority points if their applications: propose Projects that contribute to increasing opportunities for Beginning Farmers or Ranchers, Socially-Disadvantaged Farmers or Ranchers, Veteran Farmers or Ranchers, or operators of Small- or Medium-Sized Farms or Ranches that are structured as a Family Farm or propose Mid-Tier Value Chain Projects; or are a Farmer or Rancher Cooperative. A Harvester is eligible for priority points only if the Harvester is proposing a Mid-Tier Value Chain Project.
(a) Applicants seeking priority points as Beginning Farmers or Ranchers or as Socially Disadvantaged Farmers or Ranchers must provide certifications specified in § 4284.923(a) or (b), as applicable.
(b) Applicants seeking priority points as Veteran Farmers or Ranchers must provide a self-certification that they meet the definition of a Veteran Farmer or Rancher.
(c) Applicants seeking priority points as operators of Small- or Medium-Sized Farms or Ranches that are structured as a Family Farm must provide a self- certification that they meet the definition of a Small- or Medium-Sized Farm or Ranch that is structured as a Family Farm; that the owners meet the definition of Immediate Family and are primarily responsible for the daily physical labor and management of the Farm or Ranch with hired help merely supplementing the family labor.
(d) Applicants seeking priority points for Mid-Tier Value Chain Projects
must be one of the four eligible Applicant types and provide the documentation specified in § 4284.923(d)(1) through (7), demonstrating that the Project meets the Mid-Tier Value Chain definition.
(e) Applicants seeking priority points for a Farmer or Rancher Cooperative must:
(1) Demonstrate that it is a business owned and controlled by Agricultural Producers that is legally incorporated as a cooperative; or that it is a business owned and controlled by Agricultural Producers that is not legally incorporated as a cooperative, but is identified by the State in which it operates as a cooperatively operated business;
(2) Identify by name or class, and confirm that the Agricultural Producers on whose behalf the value-added work will be done meet the definition requirements for an Agricultural Producer, including that each member is an individual Agricultural Producer, or an entity that is solely owned and controlled by Agricultural Producers, that substantially participates in the production of more than 50 percent of the Agricultural Commodity to which value will be added; and
(3) Provide a self-certification statement that the entity is owned and controlled by Agricultural Producers that are incorporated, or otherwise identified by the State in which they operate, as a cooperatively owned business(es); that the owner(s)/member(s) substantially participate in the production of more than 50 percent of the Agricultural Commodity to which value will be added; is in “good standing” as a cooperatively operated business in the State of incorporation or operations, as applicable.
(f) Applicants applying as Agricultural Producer Groups, Farmer or Rancher Cooperatives, or Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Ventures (group Applicants) may request additional priority points for Projects that “best contribute to creating or increasing marketing opportunities” for operators of Small- and Medium-Sized Farms and Ranches that are structured as Family Farms, Beginning Farmers and Ranchers, Socially-Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers, and Veteran Farmers and Ranchers. See § 4284.940(c)(6) for instructions and documentation requirements for group Applicants to apply for these additional priority points.
§ 4284.925
Allowable uses of grant and Matching Funds.
(a)
Planning grants.
Funds may only be used to pay a Qualified Consultant to conduct and develop a Feasibility Study, Business Plan, and/or Marketing Plan associated with the post-harvest processing and/or marketing of a Value-Added Agricultural Product.
(b)
Working capital grants.
Funds may be used to pay the Project's eligible post-harvest operational costs directly related to the processing and/or marketing of the Value-Added Agricultural Product. Examples of eligible working capital expenses include purchasing a financial accounting system for the Project; paying salaries of employees (excluding owners and Immediate Family) to process and/or market and deliver the Value-Added Agricultural Product to consumers; paying for additional Agricultural Commodity inventory (less than 50 percent of the amount required for the Project) from an unaffiliated third party, necessary to produce the Value-Added Agricultural Product; paying for a marketing campaign for the Value-Added Agricultural Product; paying costs incurred in obtaining post-harvest Food Safety certification; and using up to $6,500 of the amount of a grant to purchase or upgrade post-harvest Equipment to improve Food Safety.
§ 4284.926
Unallowable uses of grant and Matching Funds
(a) Unallowable uses of grant and Matching Funds awarded under this subpart include, but are not limited to:
(1) Support costs for services or goods going to or coming from a person or entity with a real or apparent conflict of interest, such as paying the salary of an Immediate Family member of a Recipient owner, employee, officer, or Agency, except as specifically noted for in-kind Matching Funds in § 4284.922;
(2) Pay costs for scenarios with noncompetitive trade practices;
(3) Plan, repair, rehabilitate, acquire, or construct a building or facility (including a processing facility);
(4) Purchase, lease purchase, or install fixed Equipment, including processing Equipment, except as specifically noted in § 4284.925(b);
(5) Purchase or repair vehicles, including boats;
(6) Pay for the preparation of the grant application;
(7) Pay expenses not directly related to the funded Project for the processing and marketing of the Value-Added Agricultural Product;
(8) Fund research and development;
(9) Fund any activities prohibited by 2 CFR parts 200 through 400, and 48 CFR part 31, subpart 31.2;
(10) Fund architectural or engineering design work;
(11) Fund expenses related to the production of any Agricultural Commodity or product, including, but not limited to production planning, purchase of seed or rootstock or other production inputs, labor for cultivation or harvesting crops, labor for repotting and/or maintenance of live plants, and delivery of Agricultural Commodity to a processing facility;
(12) Conduct activities on behalf of anyone other than a specifically identified Agricultural Producer or group of Agricultural Producers, as identified by name or class. The Agency considers conducting industry-level Feasibility Studies or Business Plans, that are also known as Feasibility Study templates or guides or Business Plan templates or guides, to be ineligible because the assistance is not provided to a specific group of Agricultural Producers;
(13) Duplicate activities charged to another Federal award or previous VAPG Planning or Working Capital Grant Project by an Applicant;
(14) Pay any costs of the Project incurred prior to the date of grant approval, including legal or other expenses needed to incorporate or organize a business;
(15) Pay any judgment or debt owed to the United States;
(16) Purchase or improve real property;
(17) Pay for costs associated with illegal activities;
(18) Purchase the Agricultural Commodity to which value will be added from the Applicant entity; Applicant-owned or related entity, or members of the Applicant entity;
(19) Use Planning Grant funds to evaluate the agricultural production of the commodity itself, or compensate Applicants or family members for participation in Feasibility Studies; or
(20) Indirect Costs.
(b) Applications that propose unallowable costs in excess of 10 percent of Project Costs will be deemed ineligible to compete for funds. Applicants who submit applications containing ineligible expenses totaling less than 10 percent of Project Costs must remove those expenses from the Project budget or replace with eligible expenses, if selected for an award.
§ 4284.927
[Reserved]
§ 4284.928
Funding limitations.
(a) Grant funds may be used to pay up to 50 percent of the Project Costs, subject to the limitations established for the maximum total grant amount.
(b) The maximum grant amount provided to a Recipient in any one (1) year shall not exceed the amount announced in an annual notification issued on the program website pursuant to § 4284.930, but in no event may the total amount of grant funds provided to a grant Recipient exceed $500,000.
(c) The aggregate amount of awards to Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Ventures may not exceed 10 percent of the total funds obligated under this subpart during any Fiscal Year.
(d) Not more than 2.5 percent of funds appropriated each year may be used to fund the Agricultural Marketing Resource Center, to support electronic capabilities to provide information regarding research, business, legal, financial, or logistical assistance to Agricultural Producers and processors.
§ 4284.929
[Reserved]
§ 4284.930
Notifications.
The Agency will issue any public notifications on the program website.
(a)
Amount of funding available.
The Agency will publish the amount of
funding available for awards during each Fiscal Year within 30 calendar days of notification from OMB of the amount available.
(b)
Administrator/State Director points.
The Agency will publish the priority categories to be used for awarding Administrator or State Director points no later than the date the application period opens. Priority categories may include any of the following:
(1) Unserved or underserved areas;
(2) Geographic diversity;
(3) Emergency conditions; or
(4) Priority Department and mission area priorities, goals, and objectives.
(c)
Other.
The Agency will publish any other additional requirements or programmatic changes no later than the date the application period opens.
§ 4284.931
Application requirements.
All applications must include the following items:
(a)
Application forms.
The application must include the following forms (or their successor) and any additional forms listed in the annual notification for the program.
(1)
SF-424, “Application for Federal Assistance.”
This form must be filled out completely and signed by an authorized representative of the Applicant organization.
(2)
SF-424A, “Budget Information-Non-Construction Programs.”
This form must be filled out completely.
(b)
Executive summary.
Applications must include a one-page executive summary containing the legal name of the Applicant entity, application type (Planning or Working Capital Grant), Applicant type, amount of grant request, a Project summary, whether a simplified application is being submitted, and must explicitly state whether reserved funds are being requested.
(c)
Eligibility discussion.
The Applicant must discuss how:
(1) Applicant eligibility requirements in § 4284.920 are met;
(2) Project eligibility requirements in § 4284.922 are met; and
(3) Allowable use of grant and Matching Funds requirements in § 4284.925 are met.
(d)
Proposal evaluation criteria.
Applicants for both Planning and Working Capital Grants must address each proposal evaluation criterion identified in § 4284.940 in narrative form.
(e)
Certification of Matching Funds.
Applicants must certify that:
(1) Matching Funds will be spent in advance of grant funding, such that for every dollar of grant funds disbursed, not less than an equal amount of Matching Funds will have been expended prior to submitting the request for reimbursement; and
(2) If Matching Funds are proposed in an amount exceeding the grant amount, those Matching Funds must be spent at a proportional rate equal to the match-to-grant ratio identified in the budget.
(f)
Reserved funds/priority points documentation.
Applicants must identify their priority category, as applicable, and provide the required supporting documentation indicated in §§ 4284.923 and 4284.924 for that category to demonstrate eligibility.
(g)
Business Plan.
For Working Capital Grant applications, Applicants must provide a copy of the Business Plan that was completed for the value-added Project, except as provided for in § 4284.932. The Agency must concur in the acceptability or adequacy of the Business Plan.
(h)
Feasibility Study.
Applicants for Working Capital Grants must provide a copy of a Feasibility Study prepared by a Qualified Consultant that was completed for the value-added Project, except as provided for at § 4284.932. The name and credentials of the Qualified Consultant must be provided along with the date the Feasibility Study was completed. The Feasibility Study must demonstrate a viable Project with a likelihood of success and be a thorough assessment of the practicality of the Project. The thorough assessment must include an analysis of the proposed Project that discusses its strengths and weaknesses, potential opportunities and threats, and resources required to carry it out. The Agency must concur in the acceptability or adequacy of the Feasibility Study and whether the Qualified Consultant who prepared the Feasibility Study possesses the necessary knowledge, expertise, and experience.
(i)
Customer Base and Revenue Increase Metrics.
Applicants must include a discussion on how their Project will result in an expanded market to new customers and increased revenue to the Agricultural Producer Applicant. Working Capital Grant Applicants must also provide estimates for increases in customer base and revenue returns and must include a description of the direct or indirect producer or food business benefits intended by the eligible entity to result from the proposed Project within a reasonable period of time after the receipt of a grant.
§ 4284.932
Simplified application.
Applicants that will submit an application where paragraphs (a), (b), and/or (c) of this section apply may submit a simplified application, which means submission of a Feasibility Study or Business Plan for the Project is not required. The waiver of the requirement to submit a Feasibility Study and Business Plan does not change the proposal evaluation or scoring criteria that pertain to issues that might be supported by a Feasibility Study or Business Plan, so Applicants are encouraged to thoroughly document applications with their Project plans and expectations for success. All other eligibility requirements remain the same.
(a)
Working Capital Grant request of less than $50,000.
Applicants requesting less than $50,000 may submit a Market Expansion or Emerging Market simplified application. These types of applications must provide adequate documentation to demonstrate the expected increases in customer base and revenues resulting from the Project that will benefit the Applicant(s) supplying more than 50 percent of the Agricultural Commodity for the Project.
(b)
Market Expansion request of $50,000 or more.
Agricultural Producers who can demonstrate that their Project meets the definition of Market Expansion, may submit a simplified application. Applicants must submit a Marketing Plan with their simplified application. However, a Business Plan may be submitted in lieu of a Marketing Plan. Agricultural Producer Group, Farmer or Rancher Cooperative, and Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Venture applicant types are not eligible for Market Expansion Projects.
(c)
Food Safety.
Applicants that will submit an application where more than 50 percent of the Project Costs will be used for post-harvest Food Safety purposes related to the processing and/or marketing of a Value-Added Agricultural Product may submit a simplified application.
§ 4284.933
Submission requirements.
Unless otherwise specified in a notification issued under § 4284.930, the following requirements apply to all applications.
(a)
Submission period.
(1) The application period opens November 1. Applications received prior to the opening date in a given Fiscal Year will automatically be considered ineligible and will not be evaluated further.
(2) The application period closes on February 15. Applications received after the closing date will not be considered for funding. Thus, applicants are encouraged to submit their applications well in advance of the closing date to ensure timely receipt by the Agency. Revisions or additional information will not be accepted after the application period closes on February 15.
(b)
Submission process.
All items required for the application must be submitted in a single application. No attachments other than the required items will be considered. Incomplete applications will automatically be considered ineligible and will not be evaluated further. The annual notification for the program will be published on the OMB-designated governmentwide website and will provide instructions on how and where to submit completed applications for VAPG funding.
§§ 4284.934-4284.939
[Reserved]
§ 4284.940
Application processing.
(a)
Eligibility evaluation.
The Agency will review all applications to determine if they are eligible for assistance based on the requirements in this subpart and other applicable Federal laws and regulations. An application must include all application requirements identified in § 4284.931, or the Agency
will determine that it is not eligible for assistance.
(b)
Risk evaluation.
(1) The Agency will review those applications that are determined to be eligible for the program for risk based on the following information. Typically, the Agency will not determine that an application is ineligible for funding based on the results of the risk evaluation, unless the Agency cannot find a way to reasonably mitigate the risk posed by making an award. However, if risk evaluation findings identify significant shortcomings in the Applicant's ability to manage Federal funds, the Agency may determine that the application is not eligible for funding.
(2) The Agency will determine if the Applicant has satisfactory performance for all Federal awards received in the last five (5) years, based upon review of deficiencies reported in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System, or its successor system, the Do Not Pay system, or its successor system, and the Agency's own internal financial and record-keeping systems and files. Satisfactory performance includes timely submission of required reports and documents, timely completion of tasks, and proper use of funds.
(c)
Merit evaluation.
The Agency will conduct a merit evaluation for those applications that are determined to be eligible for the program. The maximum number of points that will be awarded to an application is 100 points. The Agency's annual notification will provide additional instructions to assist Applicants when responding to the criteria in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section. The merit evaluation will be based on the following criteria, but may be amended at the Agency's discretion:
(1)
Nature of the proposed venture (0 to 30 points).
Applicants must describe the technological feasibility, operational efficiency, and profitability and economic sustainability of the Project. Applications that demonstrate a high likelihood of success in these areas will receive higher points. In response to this criterion, Working Capital Grant Applicants must provide accurate and factual information for the Project that demonstrates a viable Project ready to be implemented upon award. Planning Grant Applicants only need to discuss anticipated needs and expected outcomes for the Project.
(i) Technological feasibility should include discussion of the value-added process; the Applicant's expectations for sufficient Agricultural Commodity as well as the value to be added to the Agricultural Commodity through the value-added process; potential markets and distribution channels; Applicant's experience in marketing the proposed or similar product; and any other relevant information that supports the feasibility of the Project.
(ii) Operational efficiency should include discussion of the cost of inputs; cost of processing commodity; sufficient labor and expertise; use of own facility, shared space, or contracted processing; adequate processing equipment; and logistics for storage, distribution, transportation, and/or shipping of the Value-Added Agricultural Product. Applicants should also address any anticipated challenges or risks associated with the Project.
(iii) Profitability and economic sustainability should include discussion of the market expansion strategy and break-even point analysis completed for the Project. Include a summary of historical financial and pro forma financial projections, as applicable, to support the viability of the Project. Other relevant sources such as a Business Plan or Feasibility Study may be cross-referenced.
(2)
Qualifications of Key Personnel (0 to 20 points).
Applicants must provide the qualifications and expertise of all identified Key Personnel. If staff or consultants have not been hired at the time of application, Applicants must provide specific descriptions of the qualifications required for the positions to be filled. Applications that demonstrate Key Personnel with strong credentials will receive higher points.
(3)
Work plan and budget (0 to 20 points).
Applicants must submit a comprehensive work plan and budget. Applications that provide a clear, comprehensive work plan detailing all Project goals, tasks, timelines, costs, and Key Personnel in a logical and realistic manner demonstrating a high
likelihood of success will receive higher points. The Project work plan and budget must demonstrate eligible sources and allowable uses of funds and must:
(i) Present a detailed narrative description of the eligible activities and tasks related to the processing and/or marketing of the Value-Added Agricultural Product along with a detailed breakdown of all estimated costs allocated to those activities and tasks;
(ii) Identify the Key Personnel that will be responsible for overseeing and/or completing the activities or tasks and provide reasonable and specific timeframes for completion of the activities and tasks;
(iii) Identify the sources and uses of grant and Matching Funds for all activities and tasks specified in the budget; and indicate that Matching Funds will be spent at a rate equal to or in advance of grant funds; and
(iv) Identify the basis of the valuation of the grant and Matching Funds for all activities and tasks specified in the budget.
(4)
Matching Funds commitment (up to 5 points).
Applications that demonstrate financial commitment in the form of cash matching contributions will receive more points. Applications with a higher percentage of cash match will receive more points.
(5)
Prior VAPG assistance (up to 5 points).
The Applicant must disclose the number of prior VAPG awards they have received. Applicants that have not received a VAPG award will receive more points.
(6)
Priority points (0 to 10 points).
Priority points may be awarded in both the general funds and the reserved funds competitions. Points will be awarded as follows:
(i) 5 priority points will be awarded if the Applicant meets the requirements for one of the following categories and provides the documentation described in §§ 4284.923 and 4284.924, as applicable: Beginning Farmer or Rancher, Socially-Disadvantaged Farmer or Rancher, Veteran Farmer or Rancher, or operator of a Small- or Medium-Sized Farm or Ranch that is structured as a Family Farm, Farmer or Rancher Cooperative, or are proposing a Mid-Tier Value Chain Project. Applicants will not be awarded more than five (5) points even if they qualify for more than one of the priority categories.
(ii) 5 additional priority points will be awarded if the Applicant is an Agricultural Producer Group, Farmer or Rancher Cooperative, or Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Venture whose Project “best contributes to creating or increasing marketing opportunities” for operators of Small- and Medium-Sized Farms or Ranches that are structured as Family Farms, Beginning Farmers or Ranchers, Socially-Disadvantaged Farmers or Ranchers, or Veteran Farmers or Ranchers.
(7)
Administrator/State Director priority categories (0 to 10 points).
Unless otherwise specified in a notification issued under § 4284.930, the Administrator of the Agency or State Director has discretion to award up to 10 points to an application to improve the geographic diversity of recipients in a Fiscal Year, fund unserved or underserved areas, assist areas experiencing emergency conditions, or prioritize Projects that advance the Department or Agency's key priorities, goals, and objectives. In the event of a national competition, the Administrator will award points and for a State-allocated competition, the State Director will award points.
§ 4284.941
Application withdrawal.
During the period between the submission of the application and award approval, the Applicant must notify the Agency if the Project is no longer viable or the Applicant is no longer requesting financial assistance for the Project. When the Applicant notifies the Agency, the application will be withdrawn from consideration for funding.
§§ 4284.942-4284.949
[Reserved]
§ 4284.950
Award selection.
(a) Applications will be selected for further processing and consideration of an award after the merit evaluation process is completed for all eligible applications. Each eligible application will be scored on criteria 1 through 6 as detailed in the annual notification. The scores will be ranked highest to lowest
and this will comprise the initial application ranking. Applications will be ranked solely on the points awarded by the reviewers, unless there is a tie. In that case, the Administrator of the Agency (or State Director) will break the tie at his or her discretion based on evaluation criterion 7.
(b) Applications for reserved funds will be funded in rank order until funds are depleted. Unfunded reserve applications will then compete for general funds where applications will be funded in rank order until available funds are expended or the minimum score for funding of 50 points is reached. Funding for Majority Controlled Producer-Based Business Ventures is limited to 10 percent of total grant funds expected to be obligated each funding cycle. These applications will be funded in rank order until the funding limitation has been reached.
(c) If an application cannot be fully funded, the Agency will offer partial funding to the extent funds are available. If the Applicant offered partial funding does not accept, the Agency will offer the funding to the next highest-ranked Applicant until an Applicant is found that accepts the funding or no additional eligible Applicants exist. If an application is ranked and not funded, it will not be carried forward into the next Fiscal Year competition.
§ 4284.951
Notification of successful Applicants.
(a) The Agency will notify the Applicants whose applications can be funded with a Letter of Conditions. The Letter of Conditions will provide the conditions under which an award can be approved as well as a copy of the term of the award. Applicants receiving a Letter of Conditions will have up to 90 calendar days to meet the conditions of the award. If the Applicant agrees with the conditions, the Applicant must complete an applicable Form RD 1942-46, Letter of Intent to Meet Conditions. If the Applicant believes that certain conditions cannot be met, the Applicant may propose alternate conditions to the Agency. The Agency must concur with any proposed changes to the Letter of Conditions by the Applicant before the application will be processed further. If the Agency agrees to any proposed changes, the Agency will issue a revised or amended Letter of Conditions that defines the final conditions under which the grant will be made. However, if an Applicant does not meet the conditions, the Agency will discontinue processing the application.
(b) All successful Applicants must complete the following additional forms and provide the following additional documentation:
(1)
Form RD 1942-46, “Letter of Intent to Meet Conditions.”
Completion of this form confirms the Applicant's commitment to meeting the conditions of the award.
(2
Form RD 400-4, “Assurance Agreement.”
Completion of this form confirms the Applicant's commitment to complying with Federal laws and policies regarding prohibition of discrimination.
(3)
Form SF-LLL, “Disclosure of Lobbying Activities.”
Completion of this form is only required for those entities that engage in lobbying activities.
(4)
Form RD 4280-2, “Rural Business-Cooperative Service Financial Assistance Agreement.”
This form must be filled out completely and signed by an authorized representative of the Applicant organization and an authorized representative from the Agency for the grant award to be considered a valid agreement between the parties.
(5)
Performance evaluation criteria.
The overall goal of this program and the Projects it supports is to create and serve new markets, with a resulting increase in jobs, customer base and revenues returning to the Producer. Specific information must be provided about plans to track and evaluate progress toward these outcomes as a way for the Agency to determine whether or not the primary program goals and Project goals included in the work plan are likely to be accomplished during the Period of Performance as specified in § 4284.960.
(6)
Verification of Matching Funds.
Provide authentic documentation from the source to confirm the eligibility and availability of both cash and in-kind contributions that meet the requirements for Matching Funds in § 4284.922.
(7)
Valid permit/license.
If the Project will produce and market a Value-Added Agricultural Product in the industries of wine, beer, distilled spirits or other alcoholic merchandise, a valid TTB Permit must be provided. If the Project will market a Value-Added Agricultural Product made from hemp, a copy of a valid producer license issued by a State, Tribe, or USDA must be provided, as applicable in accordance with 7 CFR part 990. If the Applicant applied as a Harvester, the Applicant must provide executed copies of contracts, licensing or equivalent documentation establishing “legal rights” to access and harvest the subject Agricultural Commodity.
(8)
Organizational documents.
Provide a copy of Applicant's organizational documents that demonstrate legal authority and good standing such as by-laws, articles of incorporation or organization, and Letter or Certificate of Good Standing from your Secretary of State or equivalent agency. Sole Proprietors must submit a copy of their IRS tax forms showing farm income.
§ 4284.952
Notification of unsuccessful Applicants.
Applicants whose applications are not eligible for financial assistance or did not score high enough to be funded will be notified. The notification will be in writing using an adverse decision letter. This letter will outline the reason(s) for the Agency's decision and provide dispute resolution alternatives.
§§ 4284.953-4284.959
[Reserved]
§ 4284.960
Reporting requirements.
Recipients are required to submit financial reports and performance reports on a semiannual basis. Semiannual periods end on March 31st and September 30th. Reports are due 30 calendar days after the end of the semiannual period. A final financial report and performance report must also be submitted within 120 days after the expiration or termination of the grant. Failure to submit a performance report within the specified timeframes may result in the Agency withholding grant funds.
(a)
Financial reports.
Form SF-425, “Federal Financial Report,” must be used for financial reporting. Financial reports must also include evidence of receipt of Matching Funds. Recipients must complete the Project per the terms and conditions specified in the approved work plan and budget, the Financial Assistance Agreement, and Letter of Conditions. Recipients will expend funds only for eligible purposes and will be monitored by the Agency for compliance. Recipients must maintain a financial management system and property and procurement standards in accordance with 2 CFR parts 400 through 499.
(b)
Performance reports.
All performance reports must include a discussion on the performance benchmarks suggested in the application to determine whether the primary goals and objectives proposed in the approved work plan and budget were accomplished during the reporting period. In the section of the report that compares actual accomplishments to the objectives for that reporting period, objectives should be reported by specific task breakdown as described in the approved work plan and budget.
(1) For Working Capital Grant Projects, final performance reports must include the following metrics:
(i) Expansion of customer base as a result of the Project;
(ii) Increased revenue returned to the Producer as a result of the Project; and
(iii) Jobs created or saved as a result of the Project.
(2) For all Projects, we may request additional information, including but not limited to, the following:
(i) Information that will enable evaluation of the economic impact of program awards, such as:
(A) Business starts and clients served; and
(B) Data associated with Producer market expansion, new market penetration, and changes in customer base or revenues.
(ii) Information that would promote greater understanding of the key determinants of the success of individual Projects or inform program administration and evaluation, such as:
(A) The Producer's experience related to financial management, budgeting, and running a business enterprise;
(B) The nature of, and advantages or disadvantages of, supply chain arrangements or equitable distribution of rewards and responsibilities for Mid-Tier Value Chain Projects; and
(C) Recommendations from Beginning Farmers or Ranchers, Socially-Disadvantaged Farmers or Ranchers, and/or Veteran Farmers or Ranchers.
(iii) Information that would inform or enable the aggregation of data for program administration or evaluation purposes.
(3) If any special conditions have been placed on the use of award funds, compliance with those conditions must be discussed in each performance report.
§ 4284.961
Grant monitoring.
Awards will be monitored by Agency personnel in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and policies (see § 4284.908 for more information). The Agency may terminate or suspend the award for lack of adequate or timely progress, reporting, documentation, or for failure to comply with Agency requirements.
§ 4284.962
Transfer of obligations.
At the discretion of the Agency and on a case-by-case basis, an obligation of funds established for an Applicant may be transferred to a different (substituted) Applicant provided:
(a) The substituted Applicant:
(1) Is eligible;
(2) Has a close and genuine relationship with the original Applicant; and
(3) Has the authority to receive the assistance approved for the original Applicant.
(b) The Project continues to meet all product, purpose, and reserved funds eligibility requirements so that the need, purpose(s), and scope of the Project for which the Agency funds will be used remain substantially unchanged.
§§ 4284.963-4284.999
[Reserved]
§ 4284.1000
OMB control number.
The reporting and recordkeeping requirements contained in this subpart have been approved by the OMB and have been assigned OMB control number 0570-0064 in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.

# Subpart K—Agriculture Innovation Center Demonstration Program

# Source:
89 FR 75789, Sept. 16, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 4284.1001
Purpose.
This subpart implements the Agriculture Innovation Center Demonstration (AIC) program. Through the AIC program, the Agency makes grants to Centers that provide Producer Services to Agricultural Producers seeking to develop and market Value-Added Agricultural Products.
§ 4284.1002
Organization of subpart.
The information in this subpart is organized into seven main topics:
(a)
General information.
Sections 4284.1001 through 4284.1019 discuss the purpose of the program, definitions, exception authority, conflict of interest, and compliance with other laws and regulations.
(b)
Eligibility information.
Sections 4284.1020 through 4284.1029 discuss the eligibility requirements for the program. These sections include information on applicant eligibility, project eligibility, and the use of funds. See § 4284.1022 for information about the award amounts, Period of Performance, and Matching Funds requirements.
(c)
Application requirements information.
Sections 4284.1030 through 4284.1039 discuss the requirements for submitting an application. These sections include information on what forms and other information are required for a complete application as well as the format of the application, the application deadline, and how to submit the application.
(d)
Application processing information.
Sections 4284.1040 through 4284.1049 discuss how the Agency will process applications. These sections include information on how applications will be reviewed for eligibility, how applications will be evaluated for merit, and how an applicant can withdraw an application from consideration.
(e)
Award information.
Sections 4284.1050 through 4284.1059 discuss how the Agency will make awards. These
sections include information about how applications will be selected for funding, how applicants will be notified whether their applications have been selected for funding, how applicants can resolve disputes regarding funding selections, and the requirements for an applicant to accept an award and be approved as a Recipient of an award.
(f)
Post-award information.
Sections 4284.1060 through 4284.1061 discuss the reporting requirements for Recipients after an award is approved as well as monitoring procedures that the Agency will use.
(g)
Other.
(1) Sections 4284.1062 through 4284.1099 are reserved.
(2) Section 4284.1100 includes the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control number for reporting and recordkeeping requirements under this subpart.
§ 4284.1003
Definitions.
These are the definitions for terms used in this subpart. Additional terms used in this subpart are found in the applicable laws and regulations, in particular 2 CFR part 200 and 7 CFR part 11.
Adverse Decision
has the meaning located at 7 CFR 11.1.
Adverse Decision Letter
means a letter issued by the Agency to the Applicant or Recipient that explains the Adverse Decision.
Agency
means the Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBCS or the Agency), an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), or a successor agency.
Agricultural Commodity
has the meaning located at § 4284.903.
Agricultural Commodity Organization
means an organization that exclusively represents a single Agricultural Commodity or group of similar commodities either on behalf of the commodity itself or on behalf of the Agricultural Producers who grow or raise it. The representation can be at a local, State, regional, or national level. Examples are Agricultural Commodity Marketing Boards established by States, a national association representing corn growers, and a regional association representing fruit and vegetable growers.
Agricultural Food Product
has the meaning located at § 4284.903.
Agricultural Producer
has the meaning located at § 4284.903.
Applicant
means the entity that is applying for funding through the AIC program.
Board of Directors
means the group of individuals who govern the Center.
Business Plan
has the meaning located at § 4284.903.
Center
means the Agriculture Innovation Center to be established and operated by a Recipient of the AIC program. It must be governed by a Qualified Board of Directors.
Change in Physical State
has the meaning located at § 4284.903.
Commercial Organization
means any business that sells goods or services for the purpose of making a profit.
Equipment
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Family Farm
has the meaning located at § 4284.903.
Farm or Ranch
has the meaning located at § 4284.903.
Farm- or Ranch-Based Renewable Energy
has the meaning located at § 4284.903.
Feasibility Study
has the meaning located at § 4284.903.
Federal Award
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Financial Assistance Agreement
means Form RD 4280-2 and any attachments, as executed by RBCS and the Recipient.
General Agricultural Organization
means an organization that represents agriculture in general, without restriction to any specific group, commodity, or sector. The sole purpose of the organization must be representing agriculture through policymaking, education, and/or marketing. The organization must represent Agricultural Producers, although it may represent processors and other stakeholders as well. The representation can occur at the State, regional, or national level. Examples include organizations that represent farmers and ranchers and organizations that represent organic or sustainable farming. Note that credit organizations are not included in this definition.
Harvester
has the meaning located at § 4284.903.
Indian Tribe
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Indirect Costs
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Institutions of Higher Education
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Key Personnel
means the employees and/or contractors of the Center who provide Producer Services. It also includes the Project Director.
Letter of Conditions
means the letter that the Agency issues to an entity whose application is selected for funding. The letter outlines all the conditions of the award that must be met before the award can be approved. Other agencies may call this letter an award letter or award notice.
Local Government
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Local Agricultural Producer
means an Agricultural Producer located within 400 miles of the Center or in the same State.
Locally-Produced Agricultural Food Product
has the meaning located at § 4284.903.
Matching Funds
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Nonprofit Organization
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Period of Performance
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Physical Segregation
has the meaning located at § 4284.903.
Produced in a Manner That Enhances the Value of the Agricultural Commodity
has the meaning located at § 4284.903.
Producer Services
means services provided by the Centers to Agricultural Producers seeking to develop and market Value-Added Agricultural Products. The services provided must directly assist the Agricultural Producer with the process of developing and/or marketing a Value-Added Agricultural Product. The services include the following:
(1) Business development services, such as Feasibility Studies, Business Plans, and other types of technical assistance that supports business development.
(2) Market development services, such as marketing plans, branding, and customer identification.
(3) Organizational assistance, such as legal and technical advisory services related to the development, expansion, or operation of a business.
(4) Financial advisory services related to the development, expansion, or operation of a business, such as assistance with obtaining credit for operating costs, training on using financial management software, and guidance on use of cash flow.
(5) Process development services, such as the following:
(i) Engineering services, including scale-up of production systems (not to include cost of renovating or constructing a facility or system);
(ii) Scale production assessments, which are studies that analyze processing facilities to determine the size that optimizes construction and other cost efficiencies associated with manufacturing or processing a Value-Added Agricultural Product;
(iii) Systems development; and
(iv) Other technical assistance and applied research related to development, implementation, improvement and operations of processes and systems to develop and market a Value-Added Agricultural Product.
(6) Product development, such as idea generation, concept testing, feasibility and cost analysis, product taste-testing, demographic and other types of consumer analysis, production analysis, recipe development, evaluation of packaging and labeling options, and brand development for a Value-Added Agricultural Product.
(7) Value chain coordination, or directly working with an Agricultural Producer to connect that producer to a distribution system, processing facility, or commercial kitchen.
(8) Grants to Agricultural Producers for the services in paragraphs (1) through (7) of this definition, where the individual award does not exceed $5,000 and the aggregate amount of grants made by the Center does not exceed $50,000. Note that these grants are considered pass-through awards. Therefore, Centers and subrecipients must comply with all Federal and programmatic requirements for pass-through entities and awards, as described in 2 CFR part 200. Additionally, subrecipients of these grants must be eligible to receive a Federal Award, use
grant and Matching Funds for allowable costs, provide at least one-third of the Project Cost in Matching Funds, and meet all other Federal and program requirements for the AIC program.
Program Income
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Project Cost
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Qualified Board of Directors
means a Board of Directors that includes, but is not limited to, representatives from each of the groups identified in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition. It should be noted that no representative may represent more than one group or organization and Board of Director representatives must not have any conflicts of interest. See § 4284.1006 for additional information on conflicts of interest.
(1) Two General Agricultural Organizations with the greatest number of members in the State in which the Center is located;
(2) The department of agriculture, or similar State department or agency, or a State legislator, of the State in which the Center is located; and
(3) Four Agricultural Commodity Organizations representing different Agricultural Commodities produced in the State in which the Center is located.
Real Property
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Recipient
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
State
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
State Office
means the USDA Rural Development (RD) offices located in each State.
Third-Party In-Kind Contributions
has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.
Underserved and Economically Distressed Area
means an area so designated on the program website.
Value-Added Agricultural Product
has the meaning located at § 4284.903.
§ 4284.1004
Exception authority.
The Administrator of the Agency may, on a case-by-case basis, approve an exception to any requirement or provision of this subpart provided that such an exception is in the best financial interests of the Federal Government. Exercise of this authority cannot conflict with applicable laws.
§ 4284.1005
[Reserved]
§ 4284.1006
Conflict of interest.
No conflict of interest or appearance of a conflict of interest will be allowed.
(a)
Description.
A conflict of interest occurs in a situation in which a person or entity has competing personal, professional, or financial interests that make it difficult for the person or entity to act impartially. For the purposes of this subpart, relationships that can include conflict of interest include, but are not limited to:
(1) Parent, Applicant, or Recipient Board of Directors, employees, consultants, and contractors.
(2) Center Board of Directors, employees, consultants, and contractors.
(3) Subrecipients and their employees, consultants, and contractors.
(4) Immediate family members of those listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(b)
State Departments of Agriculture.
A conflict of interest does not include the situation when the State's Secretary of Agriculture or an employee of the State's Department of Agriculture, or similar agency, acts as a member of the Center's board of directors because this representation is a requirement for the program.
(c)
Written disclosure.
Recipients must comply with 2 CFR 400.2(b), which includes providing written disclosure to the Agency of any potential conflicts of interest and maintaining written standards of conduct covering conflicts of interest and governing the performance of its employees in the selection, award, and administration of Federal Awards.
(d)
Assistance to employees, relatives, and associates.
The Agency will process any requests for assistance under this subpart in accordance with 7 CFR part 1900, subpart D.
(e)
Member/delegate clause.
No member of or delegate to Congress shall receive any share or part of this grant or any benefit that may arise therefrom; provided, however, that this provision shall not be construed to bar, as a contractor under the Federal Award, a
publicly held corporation whose ownership might include a member of Congress.
§ 4284.1007
[Reserved]
§ 4284.1008
Compliance with other laws and regulations.
The Agency, Applicants, and Recipients must comply with all applicable laws and regulations. An effort has been made to identify the most-commonly cited laws and regulations and reference them as follows:
(a)
Federal laws.
Federal laws are codified in the United States Code (U.S.C.). A selection of laws applicable to this program is identified as follows:
(1) Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.
).
(2) Consumer Credit Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
).
(3) Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
).
(4) The Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI (42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.
).
(5) The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Section 504 (29 U.S.C. 794).
(b)
Federal regulations.
Federal regulations are codified in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). In particular, 2 CFR parts 1 through 200 are applicable to all Federal grant programs. These parts address items such as universal entity identifiers, reporting subaward and executive compensation, debarment and suspension, drug-free workplaces, administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements. We particularly advise Applicants and Recipients to become familiar with 2 CFR part 200 in its entirety.
(c)
Departmental regulations.
Departmental regulations are those regulations that are specific to awards made through USDA. They are codified in the CFR. A selection of applicable regulations is identified as follows:
(1)
2 CFR parts 400 through 499.
These parts include USDA's adoption of Federal administrative requirements and cost principles. They also include regulations on debarment and suspension, lobbying, drug-free workplaces, and research awards.
(2)
7 CFR part 11.
This part includes USDA's procedures for administrative appeals, as handled by its National Appeals Division.
(3)
7 CFR part 15.
This part includes USDA's procedures for compliance with nondiscrimination laws and regulations.
(d)
Agency regulations.
Agency regulations are those regulations that are specific to awards made through the Agency and they may also be specific to a program. They are codified in the CFR. A selection of those regulations is as follows:
(1)
7 CFR part 1900.
This part covers delegations of authority, Adverse Decisions and administrative appeals, applicability of Federal law, and processing and servicing grant awards.
(2)
7 CFR part 1901, subpart E.
This subpart covers civil rights compliance requirements.
(3)
7 CFR part 1951.
This part covers servicing grant awards, including unauthorized assistance.
(4)
7 CFR part 1970.
This part covers environmental policies and considerations.
(e)
Access to laws and regulations.
(1) Laws may be accessed through the U.S.C. At the time this subpart was published, the U.S.C. may be accessed electronically at this website:
https://uscode.house.gov/.
(2) Regulations may be accessed through the CFR. At the time this subpart was published, the CFR may be accessed electronically at this website:
https://www.ecfr.gov/.
§§ 4284.1009-4284.1019
[Reserved]

# Eligibility Information
§ 4284.1020
Applicant eligibility.
Applicants must meet certain requirements to be eligible for funding through this program. Those requirements are described as follows:
(a)
Eligible entities.
Entities are eligible for assistance through this program if all the following requirements are met:
(1)
System for Award Management (SAM) registration and unique entity identifier (UEI).
Entities must have an active registration in SAM. This registration must remain current, accurate, and complete at the time of application, while the application is under consideration for funding, and while a Recipient has an active Federal Award.
This registration includes obtaining a UEI, or its successor, through
SAM.gov.
(2)
Entity type.
The entity is organized or incorporated in a State, and it is one of the following types of organizations: Commercial Organization, Indian Tribe, Institution of Higher Education, Local Government, Nonprofit Organization, or State government. A consortium is also eligible to apply, but it must select a single organization to represent the consortium as the Applicant. Only the Applicant organization must meet the eligibility requirements.
(3)
Board of Directors.
The entity proposes to create or to continue to operate a Center that is governed by a Qualified Board of Directors.
(4)
Experience/capability to provide services.
The entity demonstrates that it has provided at least three (3) years of Producer Services prior to application or that it has the capability to provide Producer Services by hiring at least two Key Personnel who have at least three (3) years of experience providing Producer Services.
(5)
Financial capability.
The entity has the financial capability for the proposed project. In particular, the following must be true:
(i) The most recent independent audit confirms that the entity has a current ratio of at least 1:1 at the end of the fiscal year; and
(ii) The most recent independent audit confirms that the entity has sufficient cash on hand at the end of the fiscal year to cover at least three months of expenses for the proposed project.
(b)
Ineligible entities.
Entities are ineligible for assistance from this program if any of the following occurs:
(1) An outstanding judgment has been obtained against the entity by the United States in a Federal Court (other than in the United States Tax Court). The entity is ineligible for assistance until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. Funds from this program may not be used to satisfy the judgment.
(2) The entity is delinquent on the payment of Federal income taxes.
(3) The entity is delinquent on Federal debt.
(4) The entity is debarred or suspended or is otherwise excluded from or ineligible for participation in Federal assistance programs under Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension.” (See 2 CFR part 417 for more information.)
(5) The entity has been convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the past 24 months.
(6) The entity has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability, unless a Federal agency has considered suspension or debarment of the organization and has made a determination that this further action is not necessary to protect the interests of the Government.
(7) The entity is an individual.
(8) The entity has an award through this program that is not scheduled to end until after September 30 of the year in which the application is submitted.
§ 4284.1021
Ultimate beneficiary eligibility.
Centers must provide Producer Services only to Agricultural Producers. The Agricultural Producers may purchase or intend to purchase up to 49 percent of the primary Agricultural Commodity needed for the Value-Added Agricultural Product that is being developed and/or marketed. Note that the primary Agricultural Commodity is considered the commodity for which the greatest volume is required to produce the Value-Added Agricultural Product. The Agricultural Producers must maintain ownership of the primary Agricultural Commodity from production through the sale of the Value-Added Agricultural Product. See § 4284.1003 for the definitions of Agricultural Commodity, Agricultural Producer, and Value-Added Agricultural Product.
§ 4284.1022
Project eligibility.
Projects must meet certain requirements to be eligible for funding
through this program. Those requirements are as follows:
(a)
Eligible projects.
Eligible projects must meet all of the following requirements. Failure to meet one or more of these requirements will render the application ineligible for funding.
(1)
Project purpose.
The sole purpose of the project must be to increase and improve the ability of Agricultural Producers to market Value-Added Agricultural Products, with at least one goal related to increasing and improving the ability of Local Agricultural Producers to market Value-Added Agricultural Products
(2)
Amount requested.
The minimum amount requested for an award must be $600,000 and the maximum amount that can be requested is $1,000,000.
(3)
Matching Funds.
Matching Funds are required for at least one-third of the Project Cost. For example, if the Project Cost is $1,500,000, Matching Funds must be at least $500,000. Matching Funds must be from non-Federal sources (unless otherwise provided by statute) and may be provided in cash by the applicant or by a third party or in-kind by a third party. They must be available for use during the Period of Performance, and they must be used for allowable expenses. Applicants may not use unrecovered Indirect Costs as Matching Funds.
(4)
Allowable use of funds.
The project must use award and Matching Funds for allowable purposes. See § 4284.1025 for additional information.
(5)
Agricultural support.
The project has the support of at least three organizations whose primary mission is to support agriculture in the State in which the Center is located.
(6)
Period of Performance.
The Period of Performance must be three (3) years. The Period of Performance must start within 90 days of award approval, unless otherwise authorized by the Agency.
(7)
Contracts with other Centers.
Contracts and/or subawards with other Centers funded through this program must be limited to 10 percent or less of total Project Costs.
(b)
Ineligible projects.
Projects are ineligible for assistance through this program if the application:
(1) Includes a conflict of interest (see § 4284.1006 for more information), where the expenses associated with the conflict of interest exceed 10 percent of the Project Cost. If the costs associated with the conflict of interest are 10 percent or less, the process in paragraph (b)(5) of this section will be followed.
(2) Requests less than the minimum or more than the maximum grant amount.
(3) Focuses assistance on only one Agricultural Producer or business.
(4) Earns revenue from processing or selling a product as part of the project. Centers may charge fees for services provided, but they cannot earn revenue from processing a product or from sales associated with a product they helped develop.
(5) Includes unallowable costs totaling more than 10 percent of Project Costs. If the application includes 10 percent or less of Project Costs in unallowable costs, and the application is otherwise eligible and selected for funding, those unallowable costs must be removed. If time permits, the Agency may allow those unallowable costs to be replaced with allowable costs. Otherwise, the amount of the Award will be reduced accordingly. If we cannot determine the percentage of unallowable costs, your application will not be considered for funding.
§§ 4284.1023-4284.1024
[Reserved]
§ 4284.1025
Use of funds.
Allowable and unallowable uses of funds are described as follows:
(a)
Allowable uses of funds.
The following types of activities and expenses are allowable:
(1) Producer Services as defined in § 4284.1003.
(2) Costs associated with establishing and operating a Center, including legal services, accounting services, clerical assistance, technical services, office supplies, hiring employees, monitoring contracts, professional development for staff, attending conferences related to value-added agriculture and marketing food products, and Board of Directors travel.
(3) Additional information on allowability of costs can be found at 2 CFR
part 200, subpart E, for all organization types.
(b)
Unallowable uses of funds.
The following types of activities and expenses are unallowable:
(1) Provide services to entities other than Agricultural Producers.
(2) Fund manufacturing or processing expenses, including test, trial, or initial production runs.
(3) Pay for interns or internships.
(4) Provide tuition remission or other financial support to students at any level of education.
(5) Provide participant support costs outside of the grants to Agricultural Producers.
(6) Fund any direct expenses for the production of any Agricultural Commodity or product to which value will be added, including seed, rootstock, labor for harvesting the crop, and delivery of the commodity to a processing facility; to include the purchase of an Agricultural Commodity.
(7) Plan, fund architectural work, repair, rehabilitate, acquire, or construct a building or facility, including a processing facility.
(8) Purchase Real Property.
(9) Purchase, rent, or install Equipment.
(10) Purchase or repair vehicles, including boats.
(11) Pay for the preparation of the grant application.
(12) Pay expenses not directly related to the funded project.
(13) Pay for any goods or services from a person or entity who has a conflict of interest with the Recipient (see § 4284.1006).
(14) Duplicate activities paid for by another Federal grant program.
(15) Pay costs of the project incurred prior to the date of award approval, unless authorized by the Agency at the time of award approval.
(16) Pay for assistance to any private business enterprise that does not have at least 51 percent ownership by those who are either citizens of the United States or reside in the United States after being legally admitted for permanent residence.
(17) Pay any judgment or debt owed to the United States.
(18) Fund any activities considered unallowable by the applicable cost principles, most of which are included in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E.
§§ 4284.1026-4284.1029
[Reserved]
§ 4284.1030
Notifications.
The Agency will issue any program notifications identified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section on the program website. An annual notification will also be published on the OMB-designated governmentwide website.
(a)
Amount of funding available.
The Agency will publish the amount of funding available for awards during each fiscal year within 30 calendar days of receiving notification from OMB of the amount of funding available.
(b)
Priority points.
The Agency will publish the priorities applicable to the program no later than the application period opening date each year. Points will be awarded in accordance with § 4284.1040(d).
(c)
Other.
The Agency will publish any other additional requirements or programmatic changes no later than the date the application period opens.

# Application Requirements
§ 4284.1031
Application requirements.
All applications must include the following items:
(a)
Form SF-424, “Application for Federal Assistance.”
This form must be filled out completely and signed by an authorized representative of the Applicant organization.
(b)
Form RD 4284-1, “Application for the Agriculture Innovation Center Program.”
This form must be filled out completely. Failure to complete any section on the form will result in the application being determined ineligible for funding.
§ 4284.1032
[Reserved]
§ 4284.1033
Submission requirements.
The following information identifies when applications can be submitted, where applications must be submitted, and the format of applications.
(a)
Submission period.
(1) The application period opens on November 1. Applications received prior to the opening date in a given fiscal year will not be considered.
(2) The application period closes at 11:59 p.m. Eastern time (ET) on January 31 of the following year. Applications received after the closing date will not be considered. This means that if the application is emailed prior to 11:59 p.m. ET on the closing date, but the Agency's system does not receive it until after the deadline, the application will not be considered for funding. Thus, applicants are encouraged to submit their applications well in advance of the closing date to ensure timely receipt by the Agency.
(b)
Submission address.
Applications must be submitted electronically to the email address listed on the program website.
(c)
Submission format.
All items required for the application must be submitted in a single application. No attachments other than the required items will be considered. Incomplete applications will be rejected.
§§ 4284.1034-4284.1039
[Reserved]

# Application Processing
§ 4284.1040
Application processing.
The following information describes the way the Agency will process applications, including evaluating eligibility, risk, and merit.
(a)
Eligibility evaluation.
The Agency will review all complete applications to determine if they are eligible for assistance based on the requirements in this subpart and other applicable Federal laws and regulations. In particular, the Agency will check the OMB-designated repository of government information, and Applicants that are excluded from Federal funding will be determined ineligible (see 2 CFR 200.206 for more information). An application must include all application requirements identified in § 4284.1031, or the Agency will determine that it is ineligible for assistance.
(b)
Risk evaluation.
The Agency will review those applications that are determined to be eligible for the program for risk based on financial risk and satisfactory past performance as described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. Typically, the Agency will not determine that an application is ineligible for funding based on the results of the risk evaluation, unless the Agency cannot find a way to reasonably mitigate the risk posed by making an award. For example, if an Applicant lacks appropriate internal controls, but has not experienced significant audit findings as a result, the Agency may choose to mitigate the lack of internal controls by requiring funds to be disbursed on a reimbursement basis until adequate internal controls are in place. However, if audit findings identify significant shortcomings in the Applicant's ability to manage Federal funds, the Agency may determine that the application is not eligible for funding.
(1)
Financial risk.
The Agency will review the organization's most recent independent audit and financial statements, provided that the most recent audit and financial statements have been created during the previous year.
(2)
Satisfactory past performance.
The entity has satisfactory performance for all Federal Awards received within the last five (5) years, based on a review of deficiencies reported by the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System, or its successor system, the Do Not Pay system, or its successor system, and the Agency's own internal financial and record-keeping systems and files. Satisfactory performance includes timely submission of required reports and documents, timely completion of tasks, and proper use of funds.
(c)
Merit evaluation.
The Agency will conduct a merit evaluation for those applications that are determined to be eligible for the program. The merit evaluation will be conducted by a panel of USDA employees, who will convene to reach a consensus on the merit of each eligible application. The total points available are 90. The merit evaluation will be based on the following criteria:
(1)
Federal Award management (0 to 10 points).
Applicants who have managed Federal Awards with the primary purpose of providing technical assistance with Periods of Performance that have start and end dates within the last five (5) years of the date of application will receive points as described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. Note that an award for which a performance deficiency is identified
will not be scored. The Agency will use
USASpending.gov,
or its successor system, to verify the award information provided in the application. The Agency will also use SAM.gov, or its successor system, in addition to USDA internal systems to check for performance deficiencies. Examples of performance deficiencies are performance and/or financial reports that are more than 90 calendar days overdue and failure to accomplish the approved scope of work.
(i)
Amount (0 to 3 points).
Zero points will be awarded if no Federal Awards are identified. Applications that identify multiple Federal Awards for amounts greater than $600,000 will receive more points.
(ii)
Time period (0 to 3 points).
Zero points will be awarded if no Federal Awards are identified. Applications that identify multiple Federal Awards for time periods of at least three (3) years will receive more points.
(iii)
Provision of technical assistance (0 to 4 points).
Zero points will be awarded if no Federal Awards are identified. Applications that identify multiple Federal Awards in which the Applicant provided technical assistance will receive more points.
(2)
Qualifications of Key Personnel (0 to 20 points).
Projects that have qualified Key Personnel will receive points as described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (v) of this section. Only Key Personnel that are currently employed or on contract with the Center will be considered. Key Personnel are considered qualified if they have at least five (5) years of experience in providing at least one Producer Service that the Center proposes to offer in its application. The Agency will consider years of experience, the number of times a service has been provided, the number of services provided, the complexity of the role the person played in providing the service, and the outcomes of the services when awarding points for qualifications.
(i)
Zero Key Personnel (0 points).
No qualified Key Personnel are identified.
(ii)
One Key Personnel (0 to 5 points).
One qualified person is identified. Zero points will be awarded if the person identified is not qualified. One point will be awarded to applications that demonstrate the person meets the qualifications. Two to three points will be awarded to applications that demonstrate the person exceeds the qualifications. Four to five points will be awarded to applications that demonstrate the person has exceptional qualifications.
(iii)
Second Key Personnel (0 to 5 points).
A second qualified person is identified. Zero points will be awarded if the person identified is not qualified. One point will be awarded to applications that demonstrate the person meets the qualifications. Two to three points will be awarded to applications that demonstrate the person exceeds the qualifications. Four to five points will be awarded to applications that demonstrate the person has exceptional qualifications.
(iv)
Third Key Personnel (0 to 5 points).
A third qualified person is identified. Zero points will be awarded if the person identified is not qualified. One point will be awarded to applications that demonstrate the person meets the qualifications. Two to three points will be awarded to applications that demonstrate the person exceeds the qualifications. Four to five points will be awarded to applications that demonstrate the person has exceptional qualifications.
(v)
Fourth Key Personnel (0 to 5 points).
A fourth qualified person is identified. Zero points will be awarded if the person identified is not qualified. One point will be awarded to applications that demonstrate the person meets the qualifications. Two to three points will be awarded to applications that demonstrate the person exceeds the qualifications. Four to five points will be awarded to applications that demonstrate the person has exceptional qualifications.
(3)
Outreach plan (0 to 20 points).
Applications that have a well-designed outreach plan will receive points as described in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i)
Goals (0 to 6 points).
The goals are clear and include a way to measure the success of the project in a quantitative way, including the baseline of the metric, and a target for the metric. Zero points will be awarded if the application does not include at least one goal, performance measurement, baseline of
the metric, and target for the metric. One or two points will be awarded if the application has at least one goal, one metric, the baseline of the metric, and a target for the metric. Three or four points will be awarded to applications that exceed this threshold. Five or six points will be awarded to applications that exceed the threshold and have exceptional goals, metrics, baselines, and targets.
(ii)
Identified need (0 to 8 points).
The application identifies a clear need in the proposed service area that connects to the goals of the project. Zero points will be awarded if the application does not identify a clear need in the proposed service area that connects to the goals of the project. One to five points will be awarded to applications that identify clear needs in the proposed service area that connect to the goals of the project. One or two additional points will be awarded to applications that describe how the need was identified. One additional point will be awarded to applications that describe an identified need in an Underserved and Economically Distressed Area.
(iii)
Customer identification (0 to 6 points).
The application describes how the Center will identify customers for the Producer Services it proposes to provide. Zero points will be awarded if the application does not identify how the Center will identify its customers. One to five points will be awarded to applications that describe a basic plan for identifying customers. One additional point will be awarded to applications that describe a plan for identifying customers in an Underserved and Economically Distressed Area.
(4)
Coordination, collaboration, and partnerships (0 to 20 points).
Coordination, collaboration, or a partnership exists if there is a formal arrangement between the Center and another organization to either provide one or more Producer Services or for the other organization to provide a different type of service that supports one or more project goals. (Note that a formal arrangement means a written agreement that is signed by both parties and includes a purpose statement.) One example is a Center that provides product development but does not have a commercial kitchen. The Center could coordinate with a commercial kitchen to work with producers on recipe development or consumer taste testing. Another example is providing a contribution to the project in the form of Matching Funds, where the contribution from a third party is Key Personnel or expert consulting services to provide Producer Services. Applicant organizations who demonstrate that they will coordinate, collaborate, or partner with other organizations for the proposed project will receive more points, based on the description as follows:
(i)
Coordination, collaboration, or partnership with one other organization (0 to 4 points).
The Agency will evaluate the complexity of the relationship, the significance of the gap in the Center's services that the relationship fills, the quality of the services that the partner will provide, and the quantity of the services that the partner will provide.
(ii)
Coordination, collaboration, or partnership with a second organization (0 to 4 points).
The Agency will evaluate the complexity of the relationship, the significance of the gap in the Center's services that the relationship fills, the quality of the services that the partner will provide, and the quantity of the services that the partner will provide.
(iii)
Coordination, collaboration, or partnership with a third organization (0 to 4 points).
The Agency will evaluate the complexity of the relationship, the significance of the gap in the Center's services that the relationship fills, the quality of the services that the partner will provide, and the quantity of the services that the partner will provide.
(iv)
Coordination, collaboration, or partnership with a fourth organization (0 to 4 points).
The Agency will evaluate the complexity of the relationship, the significance of the gap in the Center's services that the relationship fills, the quality of the services that the partner will provide, and the quantity of the services that the partner will provide.
(v)
Underserved and Economically Distressed Area (0 to 4 points).
The Agency will award one point for each coordination, collaboration, or partnership that connects the project to an Underserved and Economically Distressed Area.
(5)
Scope of the project (0 to 20 points).
The scope of the project will be evaluated based on the service area, the types of services offered, the uniqueness of the services offered, and the number of commodities assisted.
(i)
Service area (0 to 4 points).
Projects that propose to provide Producer Services to a larger service area will receive more points, based on the following structure:
(A)
Few counties (0 points).
Projects that propose to provide services to up to 10 percent of the counties in the State will receive 0 points.
(B)
Some counties (1 point).
Projects that propose to provide services to more than 10 percent and up to 25 percent of the counties in the State will receive 1 point.
(C)
Many counties (2 points).
Projects that propose to provide services to more than 25 percent and up to 50 percent of the counties in the State will receive 2 points.
(D)
Majority of State (3 points).
Projects that propose to provide services to more than 50 percent and less than 100 percent of the counties in the State will receive 3 points.
(E)
State-wide (4 points).
Projects that propose to provide services to all counties in a State will receive 4 points.
(ii)
Types of services (0 to 8 points).
Projects that offer a greater variety of Producer Services will receive more points. See § 4284.1003 for the definition of Producer Services. Each category of Producer Service offered will receive one point. If no proposed services fit into one of the categories, zero points will be awarded. The categories are as follows:
(A) Financial advisory services.
(B) Organizational assistance.
(C) Value chain coordination.
(D) Process development.
(E) Product development.
(F) Business development services.
(G) Marketing assistance.
(H) Grants to Agricultural Producers.
(iii)
Number of commodities (0 to 3 points).
Projects that have the capacity to provide services to support Value-Added Agricultural Products from multiple Agricultural Commodities in addition to the four represented on the Board of Directors of the Center will receive more points.
(iv)
Unique services (0 to 3 points).
Projects that will contribute unique services in the proposed service area will receive more points. Unique means that the services are not already provided in the service area.
(v)
Physical location (0 to 2 points).
Projects that will provide services at more than one physical location will receive more points.
(d)
Priority Points (0 to 10 points).
Each year, RBCS will select up to two priorities from the current published priorities for the RD mission area that are applicable to the program. These priorities will be published on the program website and in the annual notice no later than the date that the application period is open. Projects will be awarded five points for each priority that they meet, based on the information provided in the application, for a maximum of ten points.
§ 4284.1041
Application withdrawal.
During the period between the submission of the application and award approval, the Applicant must notify the Agency in writing if the project is no longer viable or if the Applicant is no longer requesting financial assistance for the project. When the Applicant notifies the Agency, the application will be withdrawn from consideration for funding.
§§ 4284.1042-4284.1049
[Reserved]

# Award
§ 4284.1050
Award selection.
(a) The Agency will review applications to determine if they are eligible for assistance based on requirements in this subpart, and other applicable Federal laws and regulations. If the Agency determines that your application meets the requirements, it will be scored by a panel of USDA employees in accordance with the merit evaluation criteria and point allocation specified in § 4284.1040(c). The review panel will convene to reach a consensus on the scores for each of the eligible applications. Applications will be ranked solely based on the points awarded, and they will be funded in rank order until available funds are expended or a minimum score of 40 points is reached. If
an application cannot be fully funded, the Agency may offer partial funding to the extent funds are available.
(b) If an application is ranked and not funded, it will not be carried forward into the next funding competition.
§ 4284.1051
Notification of successful Applicants.
(a) The Agency will notify the Applicants whose applications can be funded using available funds with a Letter of Conditions. The Letter of Conditions will provide the conditions under which an award can be approved as well as a copy of the terms of the award.
(b) An Applicant receiving a Letter of Conditions will have 60 calendar days to meet the conditions of the award. If the applicant does not meet the conditions, the Agency will discontinue processing the application and offer funding to another Applicant based on the ranking from the merit review panel if sufficient time exists for the application to be fully processed and an award approved by September 30 of the current fiscal year. If sufficient time does not exist, the funds will not be awarded.
(c) To view the standard conditions for all awards, please visit the program website.
§ 4284.1052
Notification of unsuccessful applicants.
Applicants whose applications are not eligible for financial assistance or did not score high enough to be funded will be notified as soon as it is practicable. The notification will be in writing using an Adverse Decision Letter. This letter will outline the reason(s) for the Agency's decision and what dispute resolution alternatives the Applicant has. (See also 7 CFR part 11.)
§ 4284.1053
Award approval.
The Agency will approve an award once the Applicant has met all the conditions of the award. The approval will be conveyed through the execution of Form RD 4280-2, which is the Financial Assistance Agreement, and provides all terms of the award. Once the award has been approved, the Recipient may begin work on the project and incur costs.
§§ 4284.1054-4284.1059
[Reserved]

# Post-Award
§ 4284.1060
Reporting requirements.
Recipients are required to submit financial reports and performance reports based on the following requirements.
(a)
Financial reports.
Financial reports are required on a semi-annual basis and after the Period of Performance has ended.
(1)
Semi-annual report.
Reporting periods are October 1 through March 31 and April 1 through September 30. Reports are due 30 calendar days after the reporting period ends. The report must include the submission of the SF-425, “Federal Financial Report,” and any additional information specified in the Financial Assistance Agreement.
(2)
Final report.
The final financial report is due 120 calendar days after the reporting period ends. The report must include the submission of the SF-425, “Federal Financial Report,” and any additional information specified in the Financial Assistance Agreement.
(b)
Performance reports.
Performance reports are required on a semi-annual basis and after the Period of Performance has ended.
(1)
Semi-annual reports.
Reporting periods are October 1 through March 31 and April 1 through September 30. Reports are due 30 calendar days after the reporting period ends. The report must use the format specified in the Financial Assistance Agreement.
(2)
Final report.
The final report is due 120 calendar days after the end of the Period of Performance. The report must use the format specified in the Financial Assistance Agreement.
§ 4284.1061
Monitoring awards.
Awards will be monitored by Agency personnel in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and policies (see § 4284.1008 for more information). The Agency will designate a contact person for each award. The Agency may terminate or suspend the award for lack of adequate or timely progress, reporting,
documentation, or for failure to comply with Agency requirements.

# Other
§ 4284.1062-4284.1099
[Reserved]
§ 4284.1100
OMB control number.
The reporting and recordkeeping requirements contained in this subpart have been approved by OMB and have been assigned OMB control number 0570-0045 in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.

# Subpart L—Rural Innovation Stronger Economy (RISE) Grant Program

# Source:
86 FR 31589, June 15, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 4284.1101
Purpose.
This subpart contains the procedures and requirements for providing the following financial assistance under the Rural Innovation Stronger Economy (RISE) program:
(a) Grants for the purpose of constructing, purchasing, or equipping a building to serve as an innovation center in order to establish job accelerators.
(b) Grants for the purpose of establishing and supporting job accelerators and related programs.
§ 4284.1102
Organization of subpart.
This subpart is organized into distinct sections as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) Sections 4284.1103 through 4284.1111 discuss definitions; exception authority; review or appeal rights; conflict of interest; USDA departmental regulations; other applicable laws; ineligible applicants; general applicant, application, and funding provisions; and notifications, which are applicable to funding the program under this subpart.
(b) Sections 4284.1112 and 4284.1113 discuss, respectively, applicant and project eligibility. Section 4284.1114 addresses funding provisions for these grants. Sections 4284.1115 through 4284.1120 address grant application content and required documentation, scoring, selection, awarding and administering grant applications, and servicing of grant awards.
§ 4284.1103
Definitions.
The following definitions are applicable to the terms used in this subpart.
Administrator
means the Administrator of Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBCS) within the Rural Development mission area of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).
Agency
means RBCS or its successor agency assigned by the Secretary of Agriculture to administer the RISE grant program. References to the National Office, Finance Office, State Office, or other Agency offices or officials should be read as prefaced by “Agency” or “Rural Development” as applicable.
Applicant
means the lead applicant acting on behalf of a rural jobs accelerator partnership as stated in 4282.1112, that is seeking a RISE grant. The lead applicant will enter into a financial assistance agreement with the Agency, receive the RISE grant funding and take ownership of any assets purchased with grant funds.
Broadband service.
Defined within the meaning of Title VI of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
), broadband service means any technology identified by the Administrator as having the capacity to provide transmission facilities and capacity that enable the subscriber to receive a minimum level of broadband service. The minimum level of broadband service for the purpose of reviewing the application will be defined by the minimum transmission capacity that was required by Title VI of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
) at the time the application was received by the Agency.
Complete application
means an application that contains all parts necessary for the Agency to determine applicant and project eligibility, the financial feasibility and technical merit of the project, and contains sufficient information to determine a priority score for the application.
Departmental regulations
mean the regulations of the Agency's Office of Chief Financial Officer (or successor office) as codified in 2 CFR chapter IV.
District organization
means an organization as defined in Section 300.3 of
Title 13, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation).
Eligible project costs
means the portion of total project costs approved by the Agency for projects that are eligible to be paid with RISE funds.
Federal fiscal year (FY)
means the 12-month period beginning October 1 of any given year and ending on September 30 of the following year; it is designated by the calendar year in which it ends.
Financial assistance agreement
means Form RD 4280-2, “Rural Business-Cooperative Service Financial Assistance Agreement, or successor form and is an agreement between the Agency and the grantee setting forth the provisions under which the grant will be administered.
High-wage job
means a job that provides a wage that is greater than the median wage for the applicable region, as determined by the Department of Labor.
Indian tribe
means the term as defined in 25 U.S.C. 5304(e).
Industry cluster
means a broadly defined network of interconnected firms and supporting institutions in related industries that accelerate innovation, business formation, and job creation by taking advantage of assets and strengths of a region in the business environment.
Innovation center
means a cross-functional place for the planning and creation of new ideas and opportunities for individual and group collaboration that leads to supporting deployment of innovative processes, technologies, services and products for economic development. Innovation centers may be utilized for a wide array of purposes including short-term housing for business owners or workers; co-working space, which may include space for remote work; space for business utilization with a focus on entrepreneurs and small and disadvantaged businesses but may include collaboration with companies of all sizes; job training programs; and efforts to utilize the innovation center as part of the development of a community, among other uses deemed appropriate by the Agency.
Institution of higher education
means the term as defined in 20 U.S.C. 1002(a).
Instrumentality
means an organization recognized, established, and controlled by a State, Tribal, or local government for a public purpose or to carry out special purposes.
Jobs accelerator
means a center or program located in or serving a rural low-income community that may provide co-working space, in-demand skills training, entrepreneurship and business support, and other initiatives as described in Part 4284.1113(b).
Lead applicant
means an entity as defined in Part 4284.1112(b) and is responsible for the rural jobs accelerator partnership plus administration of the grant proceeds and activities.
Letter of conditions
means a document prepared by the Agency establishing conditions that must be agreed to by the applicant before any obligation of grant funds can occur.
Low income community
means a community as defined in section 45D(e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and any amendments thereto.
Matching funds
means non-federal funds provided to meet the total eligible project costs that are not covered by the RISE grant proceeds.
Person
means an individual or an entity organized under the laws of a state or a Tribe.
Region
means an area identified by the applicant that meets the criteria of § 4284.1112(d) with a population of 50,000 or fewer inhabitants, or for a region with a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, is comprised of rural areas and urbanized areas, if any, are the subject of a positive determination by the Under Secretary for Rural Development with respect to a rural-in-character petition, including such a petition submitted concurrently with the application of the partnership for a grant under this section.
Rural and rural area
means any area of a state not in a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants according to the latest decennial census of the United States and not in the urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants. A rural and rural area shall be determined as defined in 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13).
Rural in character
means:
(1) A determination that an area is “rural in character” will be made by the Under Secretary of Rural Development in compliance with 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(D). The process to request a determination under this provision is outlined in this definition. Units of local government may petition the Under Secretary of Rural Development for a “rural in character” designation by submitting a petition to the Administrator on behalf of the Under Secretary. The petition shall document why the petitioner believes the area is “rural in character” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, and topography and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receiving a petition, the Administrator will review its merits and consult with the applicable governor or leader in a similar position and request comments to be submitted within 5 business days, unless such comments were submitted with the petition. The petition will be forwarded to the Under Secretary who will release to the public a notice of a petition filed by a unit of local government not later than 30 days after receipt of the petition by way of publication in a local newspaper and posting on the Agency's website. The Under Secretary will make a determination not less than 15 days, but no more than 60 days, after the release of the notice. Upon a negative determination, the Under Secretary will provide to the petitioner an opportunity to appeal a determination to the Under Secretary, and the petitioner will have 10 business days to appeal the determination and provide further information for consideration. The Under Secretary will make a determination of the appeal in not less than 15 days, but no more than 30 days.
(2) Rural Development State Directors may also initiate a request to the Under Secretary to determine if an area is “rural in character.” A written recommendation should be sent to the Administrator, on behalf of the Under Secretary, that documents how the area meets the statutory requirements and discusses why the State Director believes the area is “rural in character” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, topography, and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receipt of such a request, the Administrator will review the request for compliance with the “rural in character” provisions and make a recommendation to the Under Secretary. Provided a favorable determination is made, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable governor or leader in a similar position and request comments within 10 business days, unless gubernatorial comments were submitted with the request. A public notice will be published by the State Office in a local newspaper and the request will be posted on the Agency's website. There is no appeal process for requests made on the initiative of the State Director.
Rural jobs accelerator partnership
means a partnership formed on or after December 20, 2018, which meets eligibility criteria found in § 4284.1112.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture and, to the extent of delegated authorities, the Under Secretary for Rural Development.
Small and disadvantaged business
means a small business concern owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals as defined in Section 8(d)(3)(C) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(3)(C)).
Small business
means:
(1) An entity that meets Small Business Administration (SBA) size standards in accordance with 13 CFR part 121 and criteria of 13 CFR 121.301 as applicable to financial assistance programs, including paragraph (i) or (ii) of this definition. The size of the concern alone and the size of the concern combined with other entity(ies) it controls or entity(ies) it is controlled by, must not exceed the size standard thresholds designated for the industry in which the concern alone or the concern and its controlling entity(ies), whichever is higher, is primarily engaged.
(2) To be considered a small business, either of the following conditions must be met:
(i) The concern's tangible net worth is not in excess of $15 million and average net income (excluding carry-over losses) for the preceding two completed
fiscal years is not in excess of $5.0 million; or
(ii) The size of the concern does not exceed the SBA size standard thresholds designated for the industry in which it is primarily engaged, as measured by number of employees or annual receipts. Industry size standard designations to be utilized are listed in the SBA's table of size standards found in 13 CFR 121.201. Number of employees and annuals receipts are calculated as follows:
(A) Number of employees is calculated as the average number of all individuals employed by a concern on a full-time, part-time, or other basis, based upon numbers of employees for each of the pay periods for the preceding completed 12 calendar months. If a concern has not been in business for 12 months, the average number of employees is used for each of the pay periods during which it has been in business.
(B) Annual receipts are calculated as average total income plus cost of goods sold for the five most recent years. If a concern has been in operation for less than 60 months, average annual receipts for as long as the concern has been in operation are used.
State
means any of the 50 States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Total project costs
mean the sum of all costs associated with a completed project.
§ 4284.1104
Exception authority.
The Administrator may, on a case-by-case basis, grant an exception to any requirement or provision of this subpart provided that such an exception is in the best financial interests of the Federal government. Exercise of this authority cannot conflict with applicable law.
§ 4284.1105
Review or appeal rights.
Agency decisions that are adverse to the individual participant are appealable, while matters of general applicability are not subject to appeal; however, such decisions are reviewable for appealability by the National Appeals Division (NAD). All appeals will be conducted by NAD and will be handled in accordance with 7 CFR part 11.
§ 4284.1106
Conflict of interest.
(a)
General.
A situation in which a person has competing personal, professional, or financial interests that prevents the person from acting impartially.
(b)
Assistance to employees, relatives, and associates.
The Agency will process any requests for assistance under this subpart in accordance with 7 CFR part 1900, subpart D.
(c)
Member/Delegate clause.
No member of or delegate to Congress shall receive any share or part of this grant or any benefit that may arise therefrom; but this provision shall not be construed to bar, as a contractor under the grant, a publicly held corporation whose ownership might include a member of Congress.
§ 4284.1107
Statute and regulation references.
All references to statutes and regulations are to include any and all successor statutes and regulations.
§ 4284.1108
U.S. Department of Agriculture departmental regulations and laws that contain other compliance requirements.
(a)
Departmental regulations.
All projects funded under this subpart are subject to the provisions of the departmental regulations, as applicable, which are incorporated by reference herein.
(b)
Equal opportunity and nondiscrimination.
The Agency will ensure that equal opportunity and nondiscrimination requirements are met in accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, 15 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.
and 7 CFR part 15d, Nondiscrimination in Programs or Activities Conducted by the United States Department of Agriculture. The Agency will not discriminate against applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to contract); because all or part of the applicant's income derives from
any public assistance program; or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, 15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
(c)
Civil rights compliance.
Recipients of grants must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.,
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.,
and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. 794. This includes collection and maintenance of data on the race, sex, and national origin of the recipient's membership/ownership and employees. These data must be available to conduct compliance reviews in accordance with 7 CFR 1901.204.
(1) Initial compliance reviews will be conducted by the Agency prior to funds being obligated.
(2) Grants will require one subsequent compliance review following project completion. This will occur after the last disbursement of grant funds has been made.
(d)
Environmental analysis.
7 CFR part 1970 outlines environmental procedures and requirements for this subpart. Prospective applicants are advised to contact the Agency to determine environmental requirements as soon as practicable after they decide to pursue any form of financial assistance directly or indirectly available through the Agency. The applicant will be notified of all specific compliance requirements, including:
(1) Any required environmental review must be completed by the Agency prior to the Agency obligating any funds or the applicant taking any action;
(2) A site visit by the Agency may be scheduled, if necessary, to determine the scope of the review. An environmental review may include the publication of public notices, and consultation with State and Tribal Historic Preservation Offices and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
(e)
Discrimination complaints
—(1)
Who may file.
Persons or a specific class of persons believing they have been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this section may file a complaint personally, or by an authorized representative with USDA, Director, Office of Adjudication, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250.
(2)
Time for filing.
A complaint must be filed no later than 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination, unless a request for a waiver of the 180-day timeline is requested and the time for filing is extended by the designated officials of USDA or the Agency.
(3)
Filing a complaint.
To file a program discrimination complaint, complete the USDA Program Discrimination Complaint Form, AD-3027, found online at
https://www.usda.gov/oascr/how-to-file-a-program-discrimination-complaint
and at any USDA office or write a letter addressed to USDA and provide in the letter all of the information requested in the form. To request a copy of the complaint form, call (866) 632-9992. Submit your completed form or letter to USDA by:
(i)
Mail:
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Office of Adjudication, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250-9410;
(ii)
Fax:
(202) 690-7442; or
(iii)
Email:
OAC@usda.gov.
§ 4284.1109
Ineligible applicants.
Applicants will be ineligible to receive funds under this subpart as discussed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) If the applicant has an outstanding judgment obtained by the U.S. in a Federal Court (other than in the United States Tax Court), is delinquent in the payment of Federal income taxes, or is delinquent on a Federal debt, the applicant is not eligible to receive a grant until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied or the delinquency is resolved. The Agency will check the Do Not Pay System to verify this information.
(b) If the applicant is debarred or suspended from receiving Federal assistance, the applicant is not eligible to receive a grant under this subpart. The Agency will check the System for Award Management (SAM) to determine if the applicant has been debarred or suspended.
§ 4284.1110
General applicant, application, and funding provisions.
(a)
Satisfactory progress.
A lead applicant that has received one or more
grants under this program must make satisfactory progress toward completion of any previously funded projects before the lead applicant will be considered for subsequent funding. Satisfactory progress is defined as 50% or greater of the previous RISE award being expended at the time the Agency makes its eligibility determination for a subsequent application.
(b)
Application submittal.
Applications must be submitted in accordance with the provisions of this subpart unless otherwise specified in a
Federal Register
notice. Grant applications for financial assistance under this subpart may be submitted at any time with awards made annually based on the application's score and subject to available funding.
(c)
Limit on number of applications.
An applicant can apply for and compete only one RISE project under this subpart per Federal fiscal year, unless otherwise noted in a
Federal Register
notice.
(d)
Application modification.
Once submitted and prior to Agency award, if an applicant significantly modifies its application or scope of work, the application will be treated as a new application. The submission date of record for such modified applications will be the date the Agency receives the modified application, and the application will be processed by the Agency as a new application under this subpart. Applications that are modified due only to partial funding being available for the selected award are not subject to this provision.
(e)
Incomplete applications.
Applicants must submit a complete application in compliance with § 4284.1115 in order to be considered for funding. If an application is incomplete, the Agency will identify those parts of the application that are incomplete and return the documents, with a written explanation, to the applicant for possible future resubmission. Upon receipt of a complete application by the appropriate Agency office, the Agency will complete its evaluation and will compete the application in accordance with the procedures specified in § 4284.1118, as applicable.
(f)
Application withdrawal.
During the period between the submission of an application and the execution of grant award documents for an application selected for funding, the applicant must notify the Agency, in writing, if the project is no longer viable or the applicant is no longer requesting financial assistance for the project. When an applicant withdrawal request is received by the Agency, the selection will be rescinded and/or the application withdrawn from further processing and funding consideration.
(g)
Time limit on use of grant funds.
Except as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, grant funds not expended within the initial grant term of 4 years from the date the financial assistance agreement was signed by the Agency will be returned to the Agency.
(1)
Time extensions.
The Agency may extend the 4-year grant time limit if the Agency determines, at its sole discretion, that the grantee is unable to complete the project for reasons beyond the grantee's control and that the grantee has established an active jobs accelerator and related programming. Grantees must submit a request for the no-cost extension no later than 90 days before the expiration date of the Financial Assistance Agreement. This request must describe the extenuating circumstances that were beyond its control to complete the project for which the grant was awarded, elements of completion that are required and their timeframe, and why an approval is in the government's best interest. The Agency may extend the grant term up to an additional two-year period. Additional extensions will not be granted.
(2)
Return of funds to the Agency.
Funds that exceed the amount the grantee is entitled to receive under the financial assistance agreement or that are remaining after grant closeout will be returned to the Agency.
§ 4284.1111
Notifications.
(a)
Eligibility.
If an applicant or its project is determined by the Agency to be ineligible at any time, the Agency will inform the applicant, as applicable, in writing of the decision, reasons therefore, and any applicable appeal
rights. No further processing of the application or disbursement of grant proceeds, if funds have been previously awarded, will occur.
(b)
Funding determinations.
Each applicant, as applicable, will be notified of the Agency's funding decision on its application. If the Agency's decision is to not fund an application, the Agency will notify the applicant in writing including the reasons for the determination and any applicable appeal or review rights.
§ 4284.1112
Rural jobs accelerator partnership eligibility.
A rural jobs accelerator partnership (Partnership) organizes key community and regional stakeholders into a working group that focuses on the shared goals and needs of the targeted industry cluster(s). To be eligible for a RISE grant under this subpart, the Partnership must be formed on or after December 20, 2018, and meet each of the criteria specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. The Agency will determine a Partnership's eligibility based on the criteria herein.
(a) The Partnership must include one or more representatives of the following:
(1) A State, Tribal or local government;
(2) A State, Tribal, or local government entity;
(3) A land-grant college or university or other institution of higher education, as defined in the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001);
(4) A rural non-profit cooperative; or
(5) A private entity, which may include a business in an industry cluster, economic development or community development organization, financial institution including a community development financial institution, philanthropic organization or labor organization.
(b) The Partnership must have a lead applicant represented by one of the following:
(1) A district organization;
(2) An Indian Tribe or a political subdivision of a Tribe, including a special purpose unit of a tribal government engaged in economic development activities, or a consortium of Indian Tribes;
(3) A State or a political subdivision of a State, including a special purpose unit of a State or local government engaged in economic development activities, or a consortium of political subdivisions;
(4) An institution of higher education (as defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001)) or a consortium of institutions of higher education; or
(5) A public or private nonprofit organization.
(c) The Partnership and its project must serve a rural region, as defined.
(d) The Partnership must clearly define the region that the partnership represents and ensure that the Region encompasses each of the following:
(1) Is large enough to contain critical elements of the industry cluster prioritized by the partnership;
(2) Is small enough to enable close collaboration among members of the partnership;
(3) Includes a majority of communities that are located in the following:
(i) A nonmetropolitan area that qualifies as a low-income community; and
(ii) An area that has access to or has a plan to achieve broadband service, as defined; and
(4) Has a population of 50,000 or fewer inhabitants or, for a region with a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, is comprised of rural areas and urbanized areas, if any, are the subject of a positive determination by the Under Secretary for Rural Development with respect to a rural-in-character petition, including such a petition submitted concurrently with the application of the partnership for a grant under this section.
(e) One or more members of the Partnership must be located in the targeted region. The Partnership may consist of industry entities and other partners outside of the targeted region.
§ 4284.1113
Project eligibility.
For a project to be eligible to receive a RISE grant under this subpart, the proposed project must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. The applicant project outcome must accelerate the formation of new businesses with
high-growth potential, improve the ability of rural businesses and distressed rural communities to create high-wage jobs, and strengthen rural regional economies by engaging in one or more of the following eligible uses:
(a) The construction or purchase of a building to serve as an innovation center located in a rural low-income community which establishes and/or supports a jobs accelerator and any equipment needs of the innovation center to support the jobs accelerator;
(b) Be for the support of programs to be carried out at or in direct partnership with the jobs accelerator or in support of jobs accelerator initiatives including one or more of the following:
(1) Linking rural communities and entrepreneurs to markets, networks, industry clusters, and other regional opportunities to support high-wage job creation, new business formation, business expansion, and economic growth of rural communities;
(2) Integrating rural small businesses into a supply chain;
(3) Creating or expanding commercialization activities for new business formation in rural areas;
(4) Identifying and building assets in rural communities that are crucial to supporting regional economies;
(5) Facilitating the repatriations of high-wage jobs to the United States;
(6) Supporting the deployment of innovative processes, technologies, and products;
(7) Enhancing the capacity of rural small businesses in regional industry clusters, including small and disadvantaged businesses;
(8) Increasing United States exports and business interaction with international buyers and suppliers;
(9) Developing the skills and expertise of local workforces, entrepreneurs, and institutional partners in the region to meet the needs of employers and prepare workers for high-wage jobs in the identified industry clusters, including the upskilling of incumbent workers;
(10) Ensuring rural communities have the capacity and ability to carry out projects relating to housing, community facilities, infrastructure, or community and economic development to support regional industry cluster growth;
(11) Any activities that the Agency may determine to be appropriate, as specified in a
Federal Register
notice.
(c) Not more than 10 percent of a RISE grant awarded under this section shall be used for indirect costs of the applicant associated with administering the RISE grant. The Agency may increase this percentage as a documented exception on a case by case basis.
(d) The innovation center may be physically located in a rural area as defined in § 4284.1103 or in a non-rural area; as long as assistance being provided is to residents located in a rural area. The innovation center must be located in a rural low-income community if grant funds are used for the construction or purchase of an innovation center.
(e) The applicant is cautioned against taking any actions or incurring any obligations prior to the Agency completing the environmental review that would either limit the range of alternatives to be considered or that would have an adverse effect on the environment, such as the initiation of construction. If the applicant takes any such actions or incurs any such obligations, it could result in project ineligibility. Projects involving the construction of an innovation center as an eligible purpose are subject to the environmental requirements of 7 CFR part 1970.
§ 4284.1114
RISE grant funding.
(a)
Grant amounts.
The amount of grant funds that will be made available to a Partnership under this subpart will not exceed 80 percent of eligible project costs. The Federal share of the cost of any activity carried out using a grant under this section shall not be greater than 80 percent.
(1)
Minimum request.
Unless otherwise specified in a
Federal Register
notice, the minimum request for a RISE grant application is $500,000.
(2)
Maximum request.
Unless otherwise specified in a
Federal Register
notice, the maximum request for a RISE grant application is $2,000,000.
(b)
Matching funds.
The applicant is responsible for securing the matching funds for total eligible project costs that are not covered by grant funds. The non-Federal share of the total eligible project costs of any activity carried out using a grant under this section may be in the form of third-party equity contributions including donations and in-kind contributions of fairly-valued goods or services.
(c)
Eligible project costs.
Eligible project costs are only those costs incurred after a complete application has been received by the Agency and are associated with the items identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section. The applicant is responsible for any expenses incurred in developing its application. Each item identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section is only an eligible project cost if it is directly related to, and its use and purpose is limited to the RISE grant project. Any building or equipment purchased with grant proceeds must be owned and controlled by the lead applicant. The following is a list of eligible project costs:
(1) Costs directly related to the purchase or construction of an innovation center;
(2) Costs directly related to operations of an innovation center including purchase of equipment, office supplies, and administrative costs including salaries directly related to the project;
(3) Costs directly associated with support programs to be carried out at or in direct partnership with job accelerators;
(4) Reasonable and customary travel expenses directly related to job accelerators and at rates in compliance with 2 CFR 200.474;
(5) Utility costs, operating expenses of the innovation center and job accelerator programs and associated programs;
(6) Administrative costs of the grantee will not exceed 10% of the grant amount for the duration of the project.
(d)
Ineligible project costs.
Ineligible project costs and uses of funds for RISE projects include, but are not limited to:
(1) Costs associated with preparation of an application package under this notice;
(2) Costs incurred prior to Agency receipt of a complete application for the grant request made under a funding notice;
(3) Funding of any political or lobbying activities;
(4) Payment for assistance to any private business enterprise which does not create and/or support jobs in a rural area of the United States;
(5) Payment of any judgment or debt owed to the United States;
(6) Duplicate current services or substitute support previously provided. If the current service is inadequate, however, grant funds may be used to expand the level of effort or services beyond what is currently being provided;
(7) To fund a part of a project that is dependent on other funding unless there is a firm commitment of the other funding to ensure completion of the project;
(8) Pass through grants; and
(9) costs associated with hemp production, unless a hemp producer has a valid license issued from an approved State, Tribal or Federal plan as per Section 10113 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, Public Law 115-334 (verification of valid hemp licenses will occur at the time of award).
§ 4284.1115
RISE grant applications—content.
(a) A potential applicant for RISE may submit a concept proposal not less than 60 days in advance of the application submittal deadline as published in the
Federal Register
for review by the Agency. This concept proposal will be evaluated, and an encouragement or discouragement letter will be issued to the potential applicant. If a discouragement letter is issued, it will detail any weaknesses evaluated in the Agency's review, though a complete application may still be submitted prior to the application deadline. The concept proposal may be up to 10 pages in length using a minimum of 11-point font. The concept proposal should be in a narrative format and must include the following:
(1) Partnership information including the members and structure of the Partnership, the date formalized, and the governance or leadership board. The information will identify the lead applicant and each partner's ties to the region, their roles in the delivery of the RISE program and any history of previous collaboration between partners. The amount and source of anticipated matching funds will also be provided.
(2) Describe the geographic region to be served including the total population, economic characteristics of the region such as unemployment rates and income levels. Industry sectors, their status, size and economic contribution to the region and all communities including metropolitan statistical areas and nonmetro low income communities within the region should be identified. The availability and planned enhancements of broadband service and other assets of the region should also be identified. If the region to be served has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, the applicant must document why they believe the area is “rural in character” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, and topography and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base.
(3) Identify the industry cluster(s) that will be prioritized by the Partnership with information on the firms and support industries in those clusters. Describe the status of the industry (as emerging, existing, or declining) any existing interconnection and networks within the industry cluster and describe participation and scale of small and disadvantaged businesses within the industry cluster. Describe the opportunities or potential of industry growth in the region and competitive advantages of the region and industry cluster should be highlighted along with opportunities within the industry for the creation of or upgrading to high-wage jobs.
(4) An executive summary, project plan and scope of work must be provided with the applicant's strategy, activities, budget, goals and objectives for the use of RISE funds. The applicant should also provide information on the sustainability of the partnership and jobs accelerator at the conclusion of the RISE grant period.
(b) Unless otherwise specified in a
Federal Register
notice, applicants may only submit one RISE grant application each Federal fiscal year.
(1) The lead applicant must be registered in the System for Award Management (SAM) and is responsible for submitting a complete application as specified in (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(xiv) of this section.
(2) There are no specific limitations on the number of pages or other formatting requirements of an application. Applicants, who submitted a concept proposal to the Agency, will not need to resubmit the information found in (b)(2)(ix) below. The Agency will review and retain this information for application submittal. A complete application will consist of the following components unless otherwise specified in a
Federal Register
notice:
(i) Form SF-424, “Application for Federal Assistance;”
(ii) Form SF-424A, “Budget Information—Non-Construction Programs,” if applicable;
(iii) Form SF-424C, “Budget Information—Construction Programs,” if applicable;
(iv) Form SF-424D, “Assurances—Construction Programs,” if applicable;
(v) RD Form 400-1, “Equal Opportunity Agreement,” for construction projects only;
(vi) Identify the ethnicity, race, and gender characteristics of the lead applicant's leadership. This information is optional and is not a required component for a complete application;
(vii) Certification that the lead applicant is a legal entity in good standing (as applicable) and operating in accordance with the laws of the State(s) or Tribe where the applicant exists;
(viii) The lead applicant must identify whether or not the lead applicant has a known relationship or association with an Agency employee and, if there is a known relationship, the lead applicant must identify each Agency employee with whom the lead applicant has a known relationship;
(ix) All items required in paragraph (a) of this section must be provided with the application (applicants must provide updates, as appropriate, to any
items previously submitted as a concept proposal under paragraph (a));
(x) Readiness demonstration, which shall be comprised of the following items:
(A) Description of readiness of all partners of the Partnership to contribute to the project including their ability to coordinate activities, finances and outcomes of the project.
(B) Evidence of a formal agreement among partners of the Partnership for delivery of the RISE program.
(C) Evidence of demonstrated readiness in administering the RISE grant, if awarded, including demonstration of potential success in establishment of a jobs accelerator project, which targets an industry cluster and the initiatives of the RISE grant. The application should indicate when activities related to the expected outcomes will commence.
(D) Description of how the project will be marketed in the region and how the Partnership will capture any program impacts and success stories; and
(E) Timeline describing the proposed tasks to be accomplished and the schedule for implementation of each task.
(xi) Provide documentation on how the RISE project will impact the initiatives below, as applicable, including a brief description of how and when the initiative will be delivered:
(A) Linking rural communities and entrepreneurs to markets, networks, industry clusters, and other regional opportunities to support high-wage job creation, new business formation, business expansion, and economic growth;
(B) Integrating small businesses into a supply chain;
(C) Creating or expanding commercialization activities for new business formation;
(D) Identifying and building assets in rural communities that are crucial to supporting regional economies;
(E) Facilitating the repatriation of high-wage jobs to the United States;
(F) Supporting the deployment of innovative processes, technologies, and products;
(G) Enhancing the capacity of small businesses in regional industry clusters, including small and disadvantaged businesses;
(H) Increasing United States exports and business interaction with international buyers and suppliers;
(I) Developing the skills and expertise of local workforces, entrepreneurs, and institutional partners to meet the needs of employers and prepare workers for high-wage jobs in the identified industry clusters, including the upskilling of incumbent workers;
(J) Ensuring rural communities have the capacity and ability to carry out projects related to housing, community facilities, infrastructure, or community and economic development to support regional industry cluster growth;
(xii) Potential to produce high-wage jobs and benefit rural small and disadvantaged businesses, including a description of the following:
(A) Describe how the project will develop the skills and expertise of the local workforce, entrepreneurs and institutional partners to meet the needs of employers and prepare high-wage jobs in the targeted industry cluster(s), which may also include the upskilling of incumbent worker;
(B) Demonstrate how the project will benefit the skills and expertise of small and disadvantaged businesses, as applicable;
(C) Demonstrate any participation of higher education, applied research institutions, workforce development entities and community-based organizations, that are willing to partner with the project to provide workers with skills relevant to the industry cluster needs of the region, with an emphasis on the use of on-the-job training, classroom occupational training or incumbent worker training, as applicable; and
(D) Demonstrate any participation of investment organizations, venture development organizations, venture capital firms, revolving loan funders, angel investment groups, community lenders, community development financial institutions, rural business investment companies, small business companies (as defined in Section 103 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662)), philanthropic organizations, and other institutions focused on expanding access to capital,
are committed partners in the job accelerator partnership and willing to potentially invest in projects emerging from the jobs accelerator.
(xiii) Describe the targeted region, including the following information:
(A) Provide the latest Census Bureau information on the targeted region's median household income.
(B) Provide the latest Census Bureau information on the targeted region's educational attainment, specifically the percentage of the population who hold a bachelor's degree.
(C) Discuss how any direct career training will be provided to existing residents of the region (existing residents being those persons who live in the region at the time of application submission).
(D) Discuss any local support for the RISE project.
(E) Discuss the entrepreneurial commitment to the RISE project.
(F) Discuss any innovative processes and technologies to be utilized in the targeted industry cluster(s) of the RISE project.
(G) Discuss the initial and continuing capital investment in the RISE project.
(H) Discuss any demand for regional and global markets of the product and/or service provided by the targeted industry cluster.
(I) Discuss if the region contains any areas or communities that qualify for federal initiatives.
(J) Elaborate on the current broadband service within the region and any plans to leverage the current broadband service or enhance broadband service in the region through the RISE project.
(xiv) Financial information, including the following:
(A) Identification of matching funds and other sources of funds for the project. Provide written commitments for matching funds and other sources of funds at the time the application is submitted.
(B) Current financial statements and a narrative description demonstrating financial feasibility and sustainability of the project, all of which demonstrate sufficient resources and expertise to undertake and complete the project and how the project will be sustained following completion.
(c) Upon receipt of a complete application, the Agency will determine if the applicant and project are eligible and whether the intended outcomes described meet the requirements of the RISE program. If the application is ineligible or not feasible, the Agency will inform the applicant in writing of the reasons for the Agency's determination and no further evaluation of the application will occur.
§ 4284.1116
[Reserved]
§ 4284.1117
Scoring RISE grant applications.
The Agency will score each complete and eligible RISE application using the criteria specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section, unless otherwise specified in a
Federal Register
notice, with a maximum score of 100 points possible. Points will be allowed only for factors indicated by well documented, reasonable plans which, in the opinion of the Agency, provide assurance that the items have a high probability of being accomplished. Points shall be awarded at the discretion of the Agency to scoring criteria with a minimum and maximum number of points available. Applicants that demonstrate the experience or ability to deliver the stated criteria will be awarded higher points in that criteria.
(a)
Demonstrated readiness.
The Partnership demonstrated readiness in administering the RISE grant successfully and shows strong documentation indicating the potential for success in establishing a jobs accelerator project which targets an industry cluster and the initiative(s) of the RISE grant program. Points are awarded on a scale of 0 to 10 with a maximum of 10 points being awarded.
(b)
Targeted initiatives.
A maximum of 15 points will be awarded for this criterion based on meeting the targeted initiatives as stated in § 4284.1115(b)(2)(xi) with action narratives outlined in the application on how and when the initiatives will be delivered. More points will be awarded for reasonable initiatives that can be delivered within 12 months of the grant award and for those projects leveraging improvements in high-speed broadband service to the region.
(c)
Project support.
Points will be awarded for the strength of local support of the RISE project and entrepreneurial commitment. A maximum of 15 points can be awarded for application materials that indicate the strength of support for the RISE project. Points will be awarded from the partnership's demonstration of its sources of funding, personnel and technical resources committed to the project, and a focus on the inclusion of institutional partners expanding access to capital and willingness to potentially invest in projects emerging from the jobs accelerator. Points shall also be awarded for demonstrated resources that will sustain the project beyond the term of the RISE grant period.
(d)
Targeted region.
A maximum of 20 points will be awarded for this criterion based on the region's demographics according to the latest census information. The applicant must provide adequate documentation to the latest census information to receive points.
(1) If the targeted region has a median household income of:
(i) 50% or less of state median household income; 5 points will be awarded;
(ii) Over 50% and up to 80% of state median household income; 3 points will be awarded.
(2) If the targeted region residents have the educational attainment of a bachelor's degree by:
(i) 10% or less of the population; 5 points will be awarded;
(ii) Over 10% and up to 30% of the population; 3 points will be awarded.
(3) Existing residents of the targeted region will receive direct career training for new employment or upscaling to a high-wage job; 5 points will be awarded.
(4) If the identified region has fewer than 50,000 residents according to the most recent decennial census; 5 points will be awarded.
(e)
RISE grant funds requested.
A maximum of 10 points will be awarded for this criterion if:
(1) The RISE grant request is for $500,000 to $750,000; 10 points will be awarded.
(2) The RISE grant request is for over $750,000 and up to $1,000,000; 5 points will be awarded.
(f)
Regional impact.
Points are awarded on a scale of 0 to 5 points for each category, with a total maximum of 20 points being awarded for this criterion. To receive points, the applicant must provide documentation to warrant strength on the following criteria, with points awarded for each:
(1) Targeted industry(ies) in the region is classified as an emerging industry;
(2) Applicant demonstrates that the targeted industry(ies) in the region hold a competitive advantage or will enhance their competitive advantage through the RISE project;
(3) Applicant demonstrates that industry provides significant support of regional assets, including broadband, and provides community and economic development support within the region;
(4) The RISE project's forecasted outcomes align with RISE objectives; and
(5) The RISE project will target support to existing industry(ies), whose significance in the region may be stagnant or on the decline but can be enhanced through the benefits of the RISE project.
(g)
Administrator points.
A maximum of 10 points will be awarded, with justification, at the discretion of the Agency Administrator, as announced in a
Federal Register
notice.
§ 4284.1118
Selecting RISE grant applications for award.
Unless otherwise provided for in a
Federal Register
notice, RISE grant applications will be evaluated, assigned priority points as described in § 4284.1117 and ranked from highest to lowest score for funding consideration, subject to the availability of funding.
§ 4284.1119
Awarding and Administering RISE Grants.
The Agency will award and administer RISE grants in accordance with departmental regulations and with the procedures and requirements specified in this part.
(a)
Bonding and insurance.
The applicant must provide satisfactory evidence to the Agency that all officers of the applicant organization are authorized to receive and/or disburse Federal funds and are covered by such bonding
and/or insurance requirements as are normally required by the applicant.
(b)
Letter of conditions.
A letter of conditions will be prepared by the Agency, establishing conditions that must be agreed to by the applicant before any obligation of funds can occur. Upon reviewing the conditions and requirements in the letter of conditions, the applicant must complete, sign, and return the Form RD 1942-46, “Letter of Intent to Meet Conditions,” and Form RD 1940-1, “Request for Obligation of Funds,” to the Agency if it accepts the conditions of the grant; or if certain conditions cannot be met, the applicant may propose alternate conditions in writing to the Agency. The Agency must resolve or concur with any changes proposed by the applicant to the letter of conditions before the application will be further processed.
(c)
Evidence of matching funds.
The applicant is responsible for providing documentation that the required matching funds for the project have been received or remain committed at the date a financial assistance agreement is executed with the Agency.
(d)
SAM requirements.
Each applicant applying for grant funds (unless an exception, as outlined in 2 CFR 25.110(a) through (d), is approved by the Agency) is required to:
(1) Be registered in SAM before submitting its application;
(2) Provide a valid unique entity identifier in its application; and
(3) Continue to maintain an active SAM registration with current information at all times during which it has an active Federal award or an application or plan under consideration by a Federal awarding agency.
(e)
Financial assistance agreement.
Once the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section have been met, the financial assistance agreement can be executed by the lead applicant and the Agency. The applicant must abide by all requirements contained in the financial assistance agreement, this subpart, and any other applicable Federal statutes or regulations. Failure to follow these requirements might result in termination of the grant and adoption of other available remedies.
(f)
Grant approval.
The lead applicant will be sent an executed copy of the executed Form RD 1940-1, “Obligation of Funds,” and the financial assistance agreement.
§ 4284.1120
Servicing RISE grants.
The Agency will service RISE grants in accordance with the requirements specified in departmental regulations, the financial assistance agreement, 7 CFR part 1951, subparts E and O, other than 7 CFR 1951.709(d)(1)(i)(B)(iv), and the requirements in § 4284.1120, except as specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(a)
Inspections.
Grantees must permit periodic inspection of the project records and operations by a representative of the Agency.
(b)
Programmatic changes.
Grantees may make changes to an approved project's costs, scope, contractor, or vendor subject to the provisions specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. If the changes result in lowering the project's score to below what would have qualified the application for an award, the Agency will not approve the changes.
(1)
Prior Agency approval.
The grantee must obtain prior Agency approval for any change to the scope, contractor, or vendor of the approved project. Changes in project cost will require Agency approval as outlined in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
(i) Grantees must submit requests for programmatic changes in writing to the Agency for Agency approval.
(ii) Failure to obtain prior Agency approval of any such change could result in such remedies as suspension, termination, and recovery of grant funds.
(iii) Prior Agency approval is required for all increases in project costs. Prior Agency approval is required for a decrease in project cost only if the decrease would have a negative effect on the long-term viability of the project. A decrease in project cost that does not have a negative impact on long-term viability requires Agency notification prior to disbursement of funds. If project costs decrease, the Agency will reduce the grant amount, if necessary, to maintain a maximum grant amount of no greater than 80 percent of total
project activities as required in § 4284.1114(a).
(2)
Changes in project cost or scope.
If there is a significant change in project cost or any change in project scope, then the grantee's funding needs, eligibility, and scoring, as applicable, will be reassessed. Any decreases in Agency funds will be based on revised project costs and other factors, including Agency regulations used at the time of grant approval.
(3)
Change of contractor or vendor.
When seeking a change, the grantee must submit a written request to the Agency for approval. The proposed new contractor or vendor must have qualifications and experience acceptable to the Agency. The written request must contain sufficient information to demonstrate to the Agency's satisfaction that such change maintains project integrity. If the Agency determines that project integrity continues to be demonstrated, the grantee will be allowed to make the change. If the Agency determines that project integrity is no longer demonstrated, the change will not be approved and the grantee has the following options:
(i) Continue with the original contractor or vendor;
(ii) Find another contractor or vendor that has qualifications and experience acceptable to the Agency to complete the project; or
(iii) Terminate the grant by providing a written request to the Agency. No additional funding will be available from the Agency if costs for the project have increased. Any Agency decision will be provided in writing to the lead applicant.
(c)
Transfer of Applicant or Ownership.
Any change to the jobs accelerator partnership prior to the obligation of funds must be approved by the Agency and will only be considered if the partnership entities are eligible in accordance with § 4284.1112. After the project is obligated and operational, the applicant grantee may request, in writing, a transfer of the financial assistance agreement to another entity. Subject to Agency approval provided in writing, the financial assistance agreement may be transferred to another entity provided:
(1) The entity is determined by the Agency to be an eligible lead applicant entity under this subpart; and
(2) The scope of the project for which the Agency funds will be used remain unchanged.
(d)
Disposition of acquired property.
Grantees must abide by the disposition of acquired asset requirements as outlined in 2 CFR part 200 and departmental regulations.
(e)
Financial management system and records.
The grantee must provide for financial management systems and maintain records as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Financial management system.
The grantee will provide for a financial system that will include:
(i) Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial results of each grant;
(ii) Records that identify adequately the source and application of funds for grant-supporting activities, together with documentation to support the records. Those records must contain information pertaining to grant awards and authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays, and income; and
(iii) Effective control over and accountability for all funds. The grantee must adequately safeguard all such assets and must ensure that funds are used solely for authorized purposes.
(2)
Records.
The grantee will retain financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to the grant for a period of at least three (3) years after completion of the grant period, except that the records must be retained beyond the 3-year period if audit findings have not been resolved or if directed by the United States. The Agency and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, must have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the grantee that are pertinent to the specific grant for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts, and transcripts.
(f)
Audit requirements.
If applicable, grantees must provide an annual audit in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. The Agency may exercise its right to do a program audit after the
end of the project to ensure that all funding supported eligible project costs.
(g)
Grant disbursement.
The Agency will determine, based on the applicable departmental regulations, whether disbursement of a grant will be by advance or reimbursement. Any funds disbursed in advance of the expense shall be used within three months and the financial need substantiated in writing by the grantee. Form SF-270 or Form SF-271 must be completed by the grantee and submitted to the Agency no more often than monthly to request either an advance or reimbursement of funds.
(h)
Reporting Requirements.
Financial and project performance reports must be provided by grantees and contain the information specified in paragraphs (h) (1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Federal Financial Reports.
Between grant approval and completion of project (
i.e.,
construction), SF-425, “Federal Financial Report” will be required of all grantees as applicable on a semiannual basis. The grantee will complete the project within the total sums available to it, including the grant, in accordance with the scope of work and any necessary modifications thereof prepared by grantee and approved by the Agency.
(2)
Performance reports.
Grantees shall submit a performance report semi-annually for the first two years, and then annually thereafter, with the first report submitted no later than six months after receiving a grant under this section. This report will include, but not be limited to, the following:
(i) All activities funded with the grant funds;
(ii) Evaluation of progress towards strategic initiatives identified in the application for the grant, including a discussion of any issues which may have occurred;
(iii) Measurement of progress using performance measures during the project period, which may include the following:
(A) High-wage jobs created;
(B) High-wage jobs retained;
(C) Private investment leveraged;
(D) Businesses improved;
(E) Businesses retained;
(F) New business formations;
(G) New products, prototypes and/or services commercialized;
(H) Improvement of the value of existing products or services under development;
(I) Regional collaboration as measured by the number of organizations actively engaged in the industry cluster and/or the number of symposia held by the industry cluster, including organizations that are not located in the immediate region defined by the partnership and/or the number of further cooperative agreements;
(J) Number of educations and training activities relating to the innovation;
(K) Number of innovative products, services and/or prototypes launched;
(L) Number of jobs relocated from outside of the United States to the region;
(M) Amount and number of new equity investments in industry cluster firms;
(N) Amount and number of new loans to industry cluster firms;
(O) Dollar increase in exports resulting from the project activities;
(P) Percentage of employees for which training was provided;
(Q) Improvement in sales of participating businesses;
(R) Improvement in wages paid at participating businesses;
(S) Improvement in income of participating workers;
(T) Any measure determined appropriate by the Agency; and
(U) Broadband development in the targeted region.
(iv) Initiatives and timetable established for the next reporting period; and
(v) Any additional information as found in the annual
Federal Register
notice.
§§ 4284.1121—4284.1130
[Reserved]
§ 4284.1131
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements in this subpart are approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and assigned OMB control number 0570-0075.
Pt. 4285

# PART 4285—COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS

# Subpart A—Federal-State Research on Cooperatives Program
Sec.
4285.1
Objective.
4285.2
Cooperative agreement purposes.
4285.3
Definitions.
4285.4-4285.23
[Reserved]
4285.24
Eligibility.
4285.25
Authorized use of cooperative agreement funds.
4285.26-4285.45
[Reserved]
4285.46
Prohibited use of cooperative agreement funds.
4285.47
Limitations.
4285.48-4285.57
[Reserved]
4285.58
How to apply for cooperative agreement funds.
4285.59-4285.68
[Reserved]
4285.69
Evaluation and disposition of applications.
4285.70
Evaluation criteria.
4285.71-4285.80
[Reserved]
4285.81
Cooperative agreement awards.
4285.82
Use of funds; changes.
4285.83-4285.92
[Reserved]
4285.93
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
4285.94
Other conditions.
4285.95-4285.99
[Reserved]
4285.100
OMB control number.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1623; Public Law 103-111, 107 Stat. 1046; 7 U.S.C. 2201; USDA Secretary's Memorandum 1020-39, dated September 30, 1993; and Public Law 103-211, 108 Stat. 3.

# Source:
59 FR 38342, July 28, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Federal-State Research on Cooperatives Program
§ 4285.1
Objective.
This subpart sets forth the policies and procedures and delegates authority for providing Federal-State Research on Cooperatives cooperative agreement funds to finance programs of research on cooperatives as authorized under Section 204 (b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623 (b)). The primary purpose of this matching fund program, via cooperative agreements, is to encourage State Departments of Agriculture and State Agricultural Experiment Stations in conducting research related to agricultural cooperatives.
§ 4285.2
Cooperative agreement purposes.
Rural Development Administration (RDA) or its successor agency may enter into a cooperative agreement with a State agency to provide funds to the State agency to:
(a) Conduct marketing research related to agricultural cooperatives.
(b) Assist other organizations in conducting marketing research related to agricultural cooperatives.
§ 4285.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Agreement period.
The total period of time approved by the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services for conducting the proposed project as outlined in an approved application. The time period is normally no more than 3 years, renewable for cause not to exceed a total of 4 fiscal years.
Agricultural products.
Agricultural products include agricultural, horticultural, viticultural, and dairy products, livestock and poultry, bees, forest products, fish and shellfish, and any products thereof, including processed or manufactured products, and any and all products raised or produced on farms and any processed or manufactured product thereof.
Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services.
The Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services, Rural Development Administration or its successor agency, USDA or any authorized delegate.
Awarding official.
The Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services or authorized delegate.
Cooperative agreement.
A legal instrument reflecting a relationship between the United States Government and a State where:
(1) The principal purpose of the relationship is the transfer of money, property, services, or anything of value to the State agency to carry out research related to cooperatives; and
(2) Substantial involvement is anticipated between RDA or its successor agency, acting for the Federal Government, and the State or other recipient during performance of the research in the agreement.
Cooperator.
The State agency designated in the cooperative agreement
award document as the responsible legal entity to whom a cooperative agreement is awarded under this part.
Department.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Methodology.
The research approach to be followed to carry out the project.
Principal investigator.
A single individual who is responsible for the scientific and technical direction of the project, as designated by the cooperator in the cooperative agreement application and approved by the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services.
Project.
The particular activity within the scope of one or more of the research program areas identified in the annual program solicitation that is supported by a cooperative agreement under this part.
State agencies.
State agencies include, among others, State Agricultural Experiment Stations and State Departments of Agriculture in the 50 States, the Virgin Islands, and Guam, and other appropriate State agencies. Final determination of whether certain 1890 or 1862 Land Grant institutions qualify as state agencies will be determined on a case-by-case basis by the Office of the General Counsel (OGC), USDA.
§§ 4285.4-4285.23
[Reserved]
§ 4285.24
Eligibility.
To enter into a cooperative agreement for these funds, the applicant must:
(a) Be a State Agency as defined in § 4285.3 of this subpart;
(b) Have the financial, legal, administrative, and actual capacity to assume and carry out the responsibilities imposed by the Agreement. To meet the requirement of actual capacity it must either:
(1) Have necessary background and experience with proven ability to perform responsibly in the field of economic, business management, or other needed research area; or
(2) Have the necessary administrative and supervisory controls in place to assure an agreed upon contracting organization has the proven ability to perform responsibly in the field of economic, business management, or other needed research area;
(c) Legally obligate itself to administer cooperative agreement funds, provide adequate accounting of the expenditure of such funds, and comply with the cooperative agreement;
(d) Provide at least 50 percent of the funds necessary to conduct the research from non-federal funds; and
(e) Agree to conduct proposed research related to cooperatives and agricultural marketing.
§ 4285.25
Authorized use of cooperative agreement funds.
Funds received for research under cooperative agreements in this program shall only be used for:
(a) Payment of salaries and necessary employee benefits of personnel as agreed upon in the Cooperative Agreement. Included are salaries and benefits of State employees assigned full-time to one or more projects, or the percent of the salaries and benefits related to project work for State employees assigned part-time to research on one or more projects. Salaries and benefits include basic salary, other compensation such as holiday pay, sick or annual leave, and personnel benefits (quarters allowance, payments to other funds such as employees' life insurance, health benefits, retirement, Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA), accident compensation, and similar payments). For any of the benefit items when the State usually pays the employer share, Federal funds may be used to pay the proportionate share of such employer contributions.
(b) Payment of necessary and reasonable office expenses such as office rental, office utilities, and office equipment rental. The purchase of office equipment is permissible when the cooperator determines it to be more economical than renting. However, as a general rule, these types of expenses would be classified as indirect costs in multiple funded organizations and would not be an allowable expense. Planned purchases of equipment costing more than $200 per unit must be approved by RDA or its successor agency. Equipment purchased becomes State property pursuant to the cooperative agreement.
(c) Payment of necessary and reasonable costs of printing publications of
research project results. However, all such publications should show the RDA or its successor agency as cooperator in the project and bear the following statement: “State funds for this project (publication) were matched with Federal funds under the Federal-State Research on Cooperatives Program of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Rural Development Administration or its successor agency, Cooperative Services, as provided by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 and (appropriate) fiscal year appropriations.”
(d) Purchase of office supplies (such as paper, pens, pencils, and trade magazines) and postage needed for project activities.
(e) Payment of necessary and reasonable travel expenses.
§§ 4285.26-4285.45
[Reserved]
§ 4285.46
Prohibited use of cooperative agreement funds.
(a) The Agricultural Marketing Act prohibits the use of Federal funds to pay for newspaper or periodical space and radio and television time, either directly to the media or indirectly though an advertising agency or other firm. County and State fair exhibits, as well as commodity months and weeks, are also excluded as the research on cooperatives program activities.
(b) Federal funds cannot be used to purchase products or samples of products to give away to the public.
(c) Federal program funds cannot be used to purchase:
(1) Promotional pieces such as point-of-sale materials, promotional kits, billboard space and signs, streamers, automobile stickers, table tents, and placemats; or
(2) Promotion items of a personal gift nature.
(d) Cooperative agreement funds cannot be used to conduct general publicity or information programs designed to build the image of the State's agriculture or of a particular State Department of Agriculture or Agricultural Experiment Station.
(e) Project funds cannot be used to pay for the salary and travel of employees of cooperatives, trade associations, commodity groups, and other industry organizations, or of State personnel while engaged in managing market orders, cooperatives, or other group endeavors.
(f) Commissioners, Directors, and Secretaries of State Departments of Agriculture, Agricultural Experiment Stations, and other State agencies cannot charge their salaries and travel to project funds, with the exception of travel to workshops or conferences devoted to the Federal-State Research On Cooperatives Program.
(g) Funds made available for this program shall not be subject to reduction for indirect costs or for tuition remission.
§ 4285.47
Limitations.
The amount of funds available for the cooperative agreements under this program is limited to the amount appropriated for the fiscal year.
§§ 4285.48-4285.57
[Reserved]
§ 4285.58
How to apply for cooperative agreement funds.
(a) A program solicitation will be prepared and announced through publications such as the
Federal Register,
professional trade journals, agency or program handbooks, and/or any other appropriate means, as early as practicable each fiscal year in which funds are appropriated for the program.
(b) The annual program solicitation will contain information sufficient to enable all eligible applicants to prepare proposals including:
(1) Desired research topics. The FY-94 solicitation will encourage studies:
(i) To improve the efficiency and effectiveness of marketing of agricultural cooperatives;
(ii) To measure the impact of rural cooperatives on the local economies;
(iii) That help identify opportunities to develop cooperatives for new or alternative market uses of agricultural products;
(iv) That help identify ways to develop agricultural marketing cooperatives; and
(v) Addressing other cooperative marketing objectives;
(2) Explanation of eligibility requirements as outlined in § 4285.24 of this subpart;
(3) The notice of availability of application forms and instructions for submission of applications;
(4) The notice of deadline dates for postmarking proposal packages.
(c)
Format for proposals.
Unless otherwise indicated by the Department in the annual program solicitation, the following information must be submitted for the preparation of proposals under this program:
(1) Form SF-424, “Application for Federal Assistance.”
(2) Form SF-424A, “Budget Information—Non-Construction Programs.”
(3) Form SF-424B, “Assurances—Non-Construction Programs.”
(4)
Statement of Work.
The application must include a narrative statement describing the nature of the proposed research. The Statement of Work must include at least the following:
(i) Title of the Project. The title of the proposal must be brief, yet represent the major thrust of the project.
(ii) Project Leaders. List the name(s) of the principal investigator(s). Minor collaborators or consultants should be so designated and not listed as principal investigators.
(iii) Need for the Project. A concisely worded rationale behind the proposed research must be presented. The need for the proposed research must be clearly related to marketing and to the needs of agricultural cooperatives.
(iv) Objectives of the project. The specific description of the overall project goal(s) and supporting objectives must be presented.
(v) Procedures for conducting the research. The hypotheses or questions being asked and the methodology being applied to the proposed project must be described. A description of any subcontracting arrangements that will be used for conducting the research must be included. A tentative schedule for conducting major steps involved in the investigation must also be included.
(vi) The expected output of the project. A description of how the results of the research will be disseminated should be presented. Responsibility for publishing any research reports or other types of output should also be identified.
(5)
Collaborative arrangements.
If the nature of the proposed project requires collaboration or subcontractual arrangements with other research scientists, corporations, organizations, agencies, or entities, the applicant must identify the collaborator(s) and provide a full explanation of the nature of the collaboration. Evidence (
i.e.,
letters of intent) should be provided to assure reviewers that the collaborators involved have agreed to render this service. In addition, the proposal must indicate whether or not such a collaborative arrangement(s) has the potential for conflict(s) of interest.
(6)
Personnel support.
To assist reviewers in assessing the competence and experience of the proposed project staff, key personnel who will be involved in the proposed project must be identified clearly. For each principal investigator involved, and for all senior associates and other professional personnel who expect to work on the project, whether or not funds are sought for their support, the following must be included:
(i) An estimate of the time commitments necessary;
(ii) Curriculum Vitae. The curriculum vitae should be limited to a presentation of academic and research credentials, e.g., educational, employment and professional history, and honors and awards. Unless pertinent to the project, it should not include meetings attended, seminars given, or personal data such as birth date, martial status, or community activities; and
(iii) Publication List(s). A chronological list of all publications in refereed journals during the past five years, including those in press, must be provided for each professional project member for whom a curriculum vitae is provided. Also list other non-refereed technical publications that have relevance to the proposed project. Authors should be listed in the same order as they appear on each paper cited, along with the title and complete reference as these usually appear in journals.
§§ 4285.59-4285.68
[Reserved]
§ 4285.69
Evaluation and disposition of applications.
(a)
Evaluation.
(1) All proposals received from eligible applicants and
postmarked in accordance with deadlines established in the annual program solicitation shall be evaluated by the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services through an RDA or its successor agency staff panel. The Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services will select the evaluation panel from staff determined to be highly qualified in the subject matter areas that were emphasized in the current year's solicitation and from those with no potential conflict of interest with the applicants.
(2) Prior to technical examination, a preliminary review will be made for responsiveness to the program solicitation (e.g., relationship of proposal to research topic(s) listed in solicitation). Proposals that do not fall within the guidelines as stated in the program solicitation will be eliminated from competition and will be returned to the applicant.
(3) Proposals will be ranked based on evaluation criteria established in § 4285.70 of this subpart, and financial support levels will be recommended to the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services by the panel within the limitation of the total funding available in the fiscal year. The purpose of these evaluations is to provide information upon which the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services may make informed judgments in selecting proposals. Such recommendations are advisory only and are not binding on the awarding official of RDA or its successor agency. To ensure a comprehensive evaluation, all applications should be written with the care and thoroughness accorded papers for publication.
(b)
Disposition.
(1) On the basis of the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services's evaluation of an application in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services will either:
(i) Approve support using currently available funds;
(ii) Defer support due to lack of funds or need for further evaluation; or
(iii) Disapprove support for the proposed project in whole or in part.
(2) With respect to any approved project, the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services will determine the project period during which the project may be funded.
(3) Any deferral or disapproval of an application will not preclude its reconsideration or reapplication during subsequent fiscal years. However, applicants must reapply if reconsideration is desired.
(4) The Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services will not make a cooperative agreement funding award, based upon an application covered by this part, unless the application has been properly reviewed in accordance with the provisions of this part and unless said reviewers have made recommendations concerning the scientific merit and relevance to the program of such application.
§ 4285.70
Evaluation criteria.
(a) In evaluating the proposal, the RDA or its successor agency staff review panel and the awarding official will take into account the degree to which the proposal demonstrates the following:
(1) Focus on a practical solution to a significant problem involving one or more of the following on a cooperative business basis: the preparation for market, processing, packaging, handling, storing, transporting, distributing, or marketing of agricultural products. (35%)
(2) Adequacy, soundness, and appropriateness of the proposed approach to solve the identified problem. (30%)
(3) Feasibility and probability of success of project solving the problem. (10%)
(4) Qualifications, experience in related work, competence, and availability of project personnel to direct and carry out the project. (25%)
(b) In addition, the cost relative to the expected research results will be considered in determining the awarding of the agreements.
§§ 4285.71-4285.80
[Reserved]
§ 4285.81
Cooperative agreement awards.
(a)
General.
Within the limit of funds available for such purpose, the awarding official shall make awards for cooperative agreements to those applicants
whose proposals are judged most meritorious in the announced program areas under the evaluation criteria and procedures set forth in this part. The date specified by the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services as the beginning of the project period shall be no later than September 30 of the Federal fiscal year in which the project is approved and funds are appropriated for such purpose, unless otherwise permitted by law. All funds awarded under this part shall be expended solely in accordance with the methods identified in approved application and budget, the regulations of this part, the terms and conditions of the award, the Grants and Agreements regulations of the Department of Agriculture as currently codified in 2 CFR parts 400, 415, 417, 418, and 421.
(b)
Cooperative agreement award document and notice of award
—(1)
Cooperative agreement award document.
The award document shall include at a minimum the following:
(i) Legal name and address of performing organization or institution to whom the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services has competitively awarded funds under the terms of this part;
(ii) Title of project;
(iii) Name(s) and address(es) of principal investigator(s) chosen to direct and control approved activities;
(iv) Identifying cooperative agreement number assigned by RDA or its successor agency;
(v) Project period, specifying the amount of time the Agency intends to support the project without requiring recompetition for funds;
(vi) Total amount of Agency financial assistance approved by the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services during the project period;
(vii) Legal authority(ies) under which the cooperative agreement is awarded;
(viii) Approved budget plan for categorizing allocable project funds to accomplish the stated purpose of the cooperative agreement award; and
(ix) Other information or provisions deemed necessary by RDA or its successor agency to carry out its agreement activities or to accomplish the purpose of a particular cooperative agreement.
(2)
Notice of award.
The notice of award of funds for the cooperative agreement will be in the form of a letter providing pertinent instructions or information to the cooperator.
(c)
Types of cooperative agreement instruments.
The types of cooperative agreements shall be as follows:
(1)
New agreement.
This is an agreement instrument by which RDA or its successor agency agrees to support a specified level of effort for a project not supported previously under this program. This type of agreement is approved on the basis of an RDA or its successor agency Staff evaluation review and recommendation.
(2)
Renewal agreement.
This is an agreement instrument by which RDA or its successor agency agrees to provide additional funding for a project beyond the period approved in an original or amended agreement, provided that the cumulative period does not exceed the statutory limitation. When a renewal application is submitted, it must include a summary of progress to date from the previous agreement period. A renewal agreement shall be based upon new application, de novo review and staff evaluation, new recommendation and approval, and a new award instrument.
(3)
Supplemental agreement.
This is an instrument by which RDA or its successor agency agrees to provide small amounts of additional funding under a new or renewal cooperative agreement as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section and may involve a short-term (usually one year or less) extension of the project period beyond that approved in an original or amended award, but in no case may the cumulative period for the project exceed the statutory limitation. A supplement is awarded only if required to assure adequate completion of the original scope of work and if there is sufficient justification to warrant such action. A request of this nature will not require additional review.
(d)
Obligation of the Federal Government.
The approval of any application or the award of any funds for a cooperative agreement shall not commit nor obligate the United States in any way to make any renewal, supplemental,
continuation, or other award with respect to any approved application or portion of an approved application.
(e)
Obligation of the cooperator.
The cooperator shall be responsible for:
(1) Making a brief quarterly progress reports at the end of each December, March, June and September to the FSROC program staff for the duration of the research project;
(2) Presenting a final administrative report on the project at the end of the research project; and
(3) Preparing and publishing a report(s) of research findings for dissemination to interested producers, cooperatives, and agencies. Include recognition to financial and other assistance received from the FSROC program.
[59 FR 38342, July 28, 1994, as amended at 79 FR 76018, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 4285.82
Use of funds; changes.
(a)
Delegation of fiscal responsibility.
The cooperator may not, in whole or in part, delegate or transfer to another person, institution, or organization the responsibility for use or expenditure of cooperative agreement funds.
(b)
Change in project plans.
(1) The permissible changes by the cooperator, principal investigator(s), or other key project personnel in the approved cooperative agreement shall be limited to changes in methodology, techniques, or other aspects of the project to expedite achievement of the project's approved goals. If the cooperator and/or the principal investigator(s) is uncertain whether a particular change complies with this provision, the question must be referred to the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services for a final determination.
(2) Changes in approved goals, or objectives, shall be requested by cooperator and approved in writing by the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services, or authorized delegate, prior to effecting such changes. Normally, no requests for such changes outside the scope of the original approved project will be approved.
(3) Changes in approved project leadership or the replacement or realignment of other key project personnel shall be requested by the cooperator and approved in writing by the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services, or authorized delegate, prior to effecting such changes.
(4) Transfers of actual performance of the substantive programmatic work in whole or in part and provisions for payment of funds, whether or not Federal funds are involved, shall be requested by the cooperator and approved in writing by the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services, or authorized delegate, prior to effecting such changes, except as may be allowed in the terms and conditions of a cooperative agreement award.
(c)
Changes in project period.
The project period determined pursuant to § 4285.81(b) of this subpart may be extended by the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services without additional financial support, for such additional period(s) as the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services determines may be necessary to complete, or fulfill the purposes of, an approved project. Any extension, when combined with the originally approved or amended project period, shall not exceed four (4) years and shall be further conditioned upon prior request by the cooperator and approval in writing by the Assistant Administrator for Cooperative Services, or authorized delegate, except as may be allowed in the terms and conditions of a cooperative agreement award.
(d)
Changes in approved budget.
The terms and conditions of a cooperative agreement will prescribe circumstances under which written Agency approval must be requested and obtained prior to instituting changes in an approved budget.
§§ 4285.83-4285.92
[Reserved]
§ 4285.93
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
Several other Federal statutes and regulations apply to cooperative agreement proposals considered for review or to agreements awarded under this part. These include but are not limited to:
(a) 7 CFR Part 1, Subpart A—USDA implementation of the Freedom of Information Act;
(b) 7 CFR Part 3—USDA implementation of OMB Circular A-129 regarding debt collection;
(c) 7 CFR Part 15, Subpart A—USDA implementation of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 in order to assure nondiscrimination;
(d) 7 CFR Part 1473—National Agricultural, Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act Amendments of 1981 if the project involves a college or university;
(e) 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards;
(f) 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations;
(g) 2 CFR part 417, Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension;
(h) 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying;
(i) 2 CFR part 421, Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance);
(j) 7 CFR part 3051—Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Institutions; 29 U.S.C. 794, section 504—Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and 7 CFR part 15B prohibiting discrimination based upon physical or mental handicap in Federally assisted programs; and
(k) 35 U.S.C. 200
et seq.
—Bayh-Dole Act, controlling allocation of rights to inventions made by employees of small business firms and domestic nonprofit organizations, including universities, in Federally assisted programs (implementing regulations are contained in 37 CFR part 401).
[59 FR 38342, July 28, 1994, as amended at 79 FR 76018, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 4285.94
Other conditions.
Post-award requirements.
Upon awarding the cooperative agreement, the post-award and audit requirements of 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA in 2 CFR part 400 apply.
[79 FR 76018, Dec. 19, 2014]
§§ 4285.95-4285.99
[Reserved]
§ 4285.100
OMB control number.
The reporting and recordkeeping requirements contained in this regulation have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and have been assigned OMB control number 0570-0005. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 10 minutes to 36 hours per response with an average of 3.48 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to Department of Agriculture, Clearance Officer, OIRM, Ag Box 7630, Washington, DC 20250; and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (OMB #0570-0005), Washington, DC 20503.
Pt. 4287

# PART 4287—SERVICING
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Servicing Business and Industry Guaranteed Loans
Sec.
4287.101
Introduction.
4287.102
Definitions and abbreviations.
4287.103
Exception authority.
4287.104-4287.105
[Reserved]
4287.106
Appeals.
4287.107
Routine servicing.
4287.108-4287.111
[Reserved]
4287.112
Interest rate changes.
4287.113
Release of collateral.
4287.114-4287.122
[Reserved]
4287.123
Subordination of lien position.
4287.124
Alterations of loan instruments.
4287.125-4287.132
[Reserved]
4287.133
Sale of corporate stock.
4287.134
Transfer and assumption.
4287.135
Substitution of lender.
4287.136
Lender failure.
4287.137-4287.144
[Reserved]
4287.145
Default by borrower.
4287.146-4287.155
[Reserved]
4287.156
Protective advances.
4287.157
Liquidation.
4287.158
Determination of loss and payment.
4287.159-4287.168
[Reserved]
4287.169
Future recovery.
4287.170
Bankruptcy.
4287.171-4287.179
[Reserved]
4287.180
Termination of guarantee.
4287.181-4287.199
[Reserved]
4287.200
OMB control number.

# Subpart D—Servicing Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Manufacturing Assistance Guaranteed Loans
4287.301
Introduction.
4287.302
Definitions.
4287.303
Exception authority.
4287.304-4287.305
[Reserved]
4287.306
Appeals.
4287.307
Routine servicing.
4287.308-4287.311
[Reserved]
4287.312
Interest rate changes.
4287.313
Release of Collateral.
4287.314-4287.322
[Reserved]
4287.323
Subordination of lien position.
4287.324
Alterations of loan instruments.
4287.325-4287.333
[Reserved]
4287.334
Transfer and Assumption.
4287.335
Substitution of Lender.
4287.336
Lender failure.
4287.337-4287.344
[Reserved]
4287.345
Default by Borrower.
4287.346-4287.355
[Reserved]
4287.356
Protective Advances.
4287.357
Liquidation.
4287.358
Determination of loss and payment.
4287.359-4287.368
[Reserved]
4287.369
Future recovery.
4287.370
Bankruptcy.
4287.371-4287.379
[Reserved]
4287.380
Termination of guarantee.
4287.381-4287.399
[Reserved]
4287.400
OMB control number.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1932(a); 7 U.S.C. 1989.

# Source:
61 FR 67648, Dec. 23, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Servicing Business and Industry Guaranteed Loans

# Source:
81 FR 36020, June 3, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 4287.101
Introduction.
(a) As of October 1, 2020, this subpart is specifically applicable to and only contains regulations for servicing Business and Industry (B
I) Loans guaranteed by the Agency prior to October 1, 2020 and Business and Industry loans under the authority of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) (Pub. L. 116-136) to provide B
I guarantees for loans needed as a result of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic for working capital loan purposes to support business operations and facilities in rural areas (B
I CARES Act Program Loans). Other than B
I CARES Act Program Loans and B
I loans guaranteed by the Agency prior to October 1, 2020, this subpart is no longer used for servicing B
I loans guaranteed by the Agency. Requirements for B
I loans guaranteed by the Agency after October 1, 2020 (other than B
I CARES Act Loans) may be found at 7 CFR part 5001.
(b) The lender is responsible for servicing the entire loan and must remain mortgagee and secured party of record, notwithstanding the fact that another party may hold a portion of the loan.
(c) Whether specifically stated or not, whenever Agency approval is required, it must be in writing. Copies of all forms and regulations referenced in this subpart may be obtained from any Agency office and from the USDA Rural Development Web site at
http://www.rd.usda.gov/publications.
Whenever a form is designated in this subpart, that designation includes predecessor and successor forms, if applicable, as specified by the Agency.
[81 FR 36020, June 3, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 62196, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 4287.102
Definitions and abbreviations.
The definitions and abbreviations contained in § 4279.2 of this chapter apply to this subpart.
§ 4287.103
Exception authority.
Section 4279.15 of this chapter applies to this subpart.
§§ 4287.104-4287.105
[Reserved]
§ 4287.106
Appeals.
Section 4279.16 of this chapter applies to this subpart.
§ 4287.107
Routine servicing.
The lender is responsible for servicing the entire loan and for taking all servicing actions that a reasonably prudent lender would perform in servicing its own portfolio of loans that are not guaranteed. The lender may contract for services but is ultimately responsible for underwriting, loan origination, loan servicing, and compliance with all Agency regulations. Form RD
4279-4, “Lender's Agreement,” is the contractual agreement between the lender and the Agency that sets forth some of the lender's loan servicing responsibilities. These responsibilities include, but are not limited to, periodic borrower visits, the collection of payments, obtaining compliance with the covenants and provisions in the loan agreement, obtaining and analyzing financial statements, ensuring payment of taxes and insurance premiums, maintaining liens on collateral, keeping an inventory accounting of all collateral items, and reconciling the inventory of all collateral sold during loan servicing, including liquidation.
(a)
Lender reports and annual renewal fee.
The lender must report the outstanding principal and interest balance and the current loan classification on each guaranteed loan semiannually (at June 30 and December 31), using either the USDA Lender Interactive Network Connection (LINC) system or Form RD 1980-41, “Guaranteed Loan Status Report.” The lender must transmit the annual renewal fee to the Agency in accordance with § 4279.120(b) of this chapter calculated based on the December 31 semiannual status report.
(b)
Loan classification.
The lender must provide the loan classification or rating under its regulatory standards as of loan closing, using either the LINC system or Form 1980-19, “Guaranteed Loan Closing Report.” When the lender changes the loan classification in the future, the lender must notify the Agency within 30 days, in writing, of any change in the loan classification.
(c)
Agency and lender conference.
At the Agency's request, the lender must consult with the Agency to ascertain how the guaranteed loan is being serviced and that the conditions and covenants of the loan agreement are being enforced.
(d)
Borrower financial reports.
The lender must obtain, analyze, and forward to the Agency the borrower's and any guarantor's annual financial statements required by the loan agreement within 120 days of the end of the borrower's fiscal year. States, local government, Indian tribes, institution of higher education, and nonprofit organization borrowers who meet the Federal awards expended threshold established in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, during their fiscal year must submit an audit conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. When the borrower's audit is conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, audits must be submitted no later than nine months after the end of the borrower's fiscal year or 30 days after the borrower's receipt of the auditor's report, whichever is earlier. The lender must analyze these financial statements and provide the Agency with a written summary of the lender's analysis, ratio analysis, and conclusions, which, at a minimum, must include trends, strengths, weaknesses, extraordinary transactions, violations of loan covenants and covenant waivers proposed by the lender, any routine servicing actions performed, and other indications of the financial condition of the borrower. Spreadsheets of the financial statements must also be included. Following the Agency's review of the lender's financial analysis, the Agency will provide a written report of any concerns to the lender. Any concerns based upon the Agency's review must be addressed by the lender. If the lender makes a reasonable attempt to obtain financial statements but is unable to obtain the borrower's cooperation, the failure to obtain financial statements will not impair the validity of the Loan Note Guarantee.
(e)
Protection of Agency interests.
If the Agency determines that the lender is not in compliance with its servicing responsibilities, the Agency reserves the right to take any action the Agency determines necessary to protect the Agency's interests with respect to the loan. If the Agency exercises this right, the lender must cooperate with the Agency to rectify the situation. In determining any loss, the Agency will assess against the lender any cost to the Agency associated with such action.
[81 FR 36020, June 3, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 58021, Sept. 23, 2022]
§§ 4287.108-4287.111
[Reserved]
§ 4287.112
Interest rate changes.
(a) The borrower, lender, and holder (if any) may collectively initiate a permanent or temporary reduction in the interest rate of the guaranteed loan at any time during the life of the loan upon written agreement among these parties. The lender must obtain prior Agency concurrence and provide a copy of the modification agreement to the Agency. If any of the guaranteed portion has been purchased by the Agency, the Agency (as a holder) will affirm or reject interest rate change proposals in writing.
(b) No increases in interest rates will be permitted, except the normal fluctuations in approved variable interest rates, unless a temporary interest rate reduction occurred or to change from a variable rate to a fixed rate. Variable rates can be changed to a fixed rate at the request of the borrower, lender, agreement of the holder, if any, and with the Agency's prior written concurrence. After the rate change, the rate must meet the requirements of 7 CFR 4279.125.
(c) The interest rate, after adjustments, must comply with the interest rate requirements set forth in § 4279.125 of this chapter.
(d) The lender is responsible for the legal documentation of interest-rate changes by an endorsement or any other legally effective amendment to the promissory note; however, no new notes shall be issued. The lender must provide copies of all legal documents to the Agency.
[81 FR 36020, June 3, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 58021, Sept. 23, 2022]
§ 4287.113
Release of collateral.
(a) Within the parameters of paragraph (c) of this section, lenders may, over the life of the loan, release collateral (other than personal and corporate guarantees) without Agency concurrence if the proceeds generated are used to pay down debt in order of lien priority, reduce the guaranteed loan or to acquire replacement collateral. Working assets, such as accounts receivable, inventory, and work-in-progress that are routinely depleted or sold and proceeds used for the normal course of business operations may be used in and released for routine business purposes without prior concurrence of the Agency as long as the loan is not in monetary default or liquidation.
(b) If a release of collateral does not meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the lender must complete a written evaluation to justify the release and obtain written Agency concurrence in advance of the release.
(c) Collateral must remain sufficient to provide for adequate collateral coverage for the outstanding guaranteed loan(s). For a release of collateral request when the Borrower is not in monetary default or liquidation, the lender must support all releases of chattel collateral with a value exceeding $250,000 and real estate collateral with a value exceeding $500,000 with a current appraisal on the collateral being released and otherwise meets the requirements of § 4279.144 of this chapter. All other release of collateral requests must meet the appraisal requirements of § 4279.144 of this chapter. The cost of this appraisal will not be paid for by the Agency. The Agency may, at its discretion, require an appraisal of the remaining collateral in cases where it has been determined that the Agency may be adversely affected by the release of collateral. The sale or release of the collateral must be based on an arm's length transaction, and there must be adequate consideration for the release of collateral. Such consideration may include, but is not limited to:
(1) Application of the net proceeds from the sale of collateral to the borrower's debts in order of their lien priority against the sold collateral;
(2) Use of the net proceeds from the sale of collateral to purchase other collateral of equal or greater value for which the lender will obtain as security for the benefit of the guaranteed loan with a lien position equal or superior to the position previously held;
(3) Application of the net proceeds from the sale of collateral to the borrower's business operation in such a manner that a significant improvement to the borrower's debt service ability will be clearly demonstrated. The lender's written request must detail how
the borrower's debt service ability will be improved; or
(4) Assurance that the release of collateral is essential for the success of the business, thereby furthering the goals of the program. Such assurance must be supported by written documentation from the lender acceptable to the Agency.
[81 FR 36020, June 3, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 58021, Sept. 23, 2022]
§§ 4287.114-4287.122
[Reserved]
§ 4287.123
Subordination of lien position.
A subordination of the lender's lien position must be requested in writing by the lender and concurred with in writing by the Agency in advance of the subordination. The lender's subordination proposal must include a financial analysis of the servicing action and be fully supported by current financial statements of the borrower and guarantors that are less than 90 days old.
(a) The subordination of lien position must enhance the borrower's business and not adversely affect the potential for collection of the B
I loan through repayment or liquidation.
(b) The lien to which the guaranteed loan is subordinated is for a fixed dollar limit and for a fixed term after which the guaranteed loan lien priority will be restored.
(c) Collateral must remain sufficient to provide for adequate collateral coverage. The Agency may require a current independent appraisal in accordance with § 4279.144 of this chapter.
(d) Lien priorities must remain for the portion of the collateral that was not subordinated.
(e) A subordination to a line of credit cannot exceed 1 year. The term of the line of credit cannot be extended.
§ 4287.124
Alterations of loan instruments.
The lender must neither alter nor approve any alterations or modifications of any loan instrument without the prior written approval of the Agency.
§§ 4287.125-4287.132
[Reserved]
§ 4287.133
Sale of corporate stock.
Any sale or transfer of corporate stock must be approved by the Agency in writing and must be to an eligible individual or entity in accordance with § 4279.108(a) and 4279.108(b) of this chapter. In the event a portion of the borrower's stock is sold or transferred, the Agency may require personal or corporate guarantees from those then owning a 20 percent or more interest in the borrower in accordance with § 4279.132 of this chapter.
§ 4287.134
Transfer and assumption.
The lender may request a transfer and assumption of a guaranteed loan in situations where the total indebtedness, or less than the total indebtedness, is transferred to another eligible borrower on the same or different terms. A transfer and assumption of the borrower's operation can be accomplished before or after the loan goes into liquidation. However, if the collateral has been purchased through foreclosure or the borrower has conveyed title to the lender, no transfer and assumption is permitted. Additionally, no transfer and assumption is permitted when the Agency has repurchased 100 percent of the guaranteed portion of the loan.
(a)
Documentation of request.
All transfers and assumptions must be approved in writing by the Agency and must be to an eligible borrower. The lender must provide credit reports for each individual or entity owning 20 percent or more interest in the transferee, along with such other documentation as the Agency may request to determine eligibility. In accordance with § 4279.132 of this chapter, the Agency will require personal and/or corporate guarantee(s) from all owners that have a 20 percent or more ownership interest in the transferee. When warranted by an Agency assessment of potential financial risk, the Agency may also require guarantees of parent, subsidiaries, or affiliated companies (owning less than a 20 percent interest in the borrower) and may require security for any guarantee. The new borrower must sign Form RD 4279-1, “Application for Loan Guarantee,” and any
guarantors of the guaranteed loan must sign Form RD 4279-14, “Unconditional Guarantee.”
(b)
Terms.
Loan terms may be changed with the concurrence of the Agency, all holders, and the transferor (including guarantors) if the transferor has not been or will not be released from liability. Any new loan terms must be within the terms authorized by § 4279.126 of this chapter.
(c)
Release of liability.
The transferor, including any guarantor, may be released from liability only with prior Agency written concurrence and only when the fair market value of the collateral being transferred is at least equal to the amount of the loan being assumed and is supported by a current appraisal and a current financial statement of the transferee. The Agency will not pay for the appraisal. If the transfer is for less than the debt, for a release of liability, the lender must demonstrate to the Agency that the transferor and guarantors have no reasonable debt-paying ability considering their assets and income in the foreseeable future.
(d)
Proceeds.
The lender must credit any proceeds received from the sale of collateral before a transfer and assumption to the transferor's guaranteed loan debt in order of lien priority before the transfer and assumption is closed.
(e)
Additional loans.
Loans to provide additional funds in connection with a transfer and assumption must be considered a new loan application, which requires submission of a complete Agency application in accordance with § 4279.161(b) of this chapter.
(f)
Credit quality.
The lender will provide a credit analysis of the proposal that addresses capacity (sufficient cash flow to service the debt), capital (net worth), collateral (assets to secure the debt), conditions (of the borrower, industry trends, and the overall economy), and character (integrity of the transferee management) in accordance with § 4279.131 of this chapter.
(g)
Appraisals.
If the proposed transfer and assumption is for the full amount of the Agency guaranteed loan, the Agency will not require an appraisal, unless a guarantor is being released from liability in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. If the proposed transfer and assumption is for less than the full amount of the Agency guaranteed loan, the Agency will require an appraisal on all of the collateral being transferred, and the amount of the assumption must not be less than this appraised value. The lender is responsible for obtaining this appraisal, which must conform to the requirements of § 4279.144 of this chapter. The Agency will not pay the appraisal fee or any other costs associated with this transfer.
(h)
Documents.
Prior to Agency approval, the lender must provide the Agency a written legal opinion that the transaction can be properly and legally transferred and assurance that the conveyance instruments will be appropriately filed, registered, and recorded.
(1) The lender must not issue any new promissory notes. The assumption must be completed in accordance with applicable law and must contain the Agency case number of the transferor and transferee. The lender must provide the Agency with a copy of the transfer and assumption agreement. The lender must ensure that all transfers and assumptions are noted on all original Loan Note Guarantees.
(2) A new loan agreement, consistent in principle with the original loan agreement, must be executed to establish the terms and conditions of the loan being assumed. An assumption agreement can be used to establish the loan covenants.
(3) Upon execution of the transfer and assumption, the lender must provide the Agency with a written legal opinion that the transfer and assumption is completed, valid, and enforceable, and certification that the transfer and assumption is consistent with the conditions outlined in the Agency's conditions of approval for the transfer and complies with all Agency regulations.
(i)
Loss/repurchase resulting from transfer.
(1) Any resulting loss must be processed in accordance with § 4287.158.
(2) If a holder owns any of the guaranteed portion, such portion must be repurchased by the lender or the Agency in accordance with § 4279.78 of this chapter.
(j)
Related party.
If the transferor and transferee are affiliated or related parties, any transfer and assumption must be for the full amount of the debt.
(k)
Cash downpayment.
The lender may allow the transferee to make cash downpayments directly to the transferor provided:
(1) The transfer and assumption is made for the total indebtedness;
(2) The lender recommends that the cash be released, and the Agency concurs prior to the transaction being completed. The lender may require that an amount be retained for a defined period of time as a reserve against future defaults. Interest on such account may be paid periodically to the transferor or transferee as agreed;
(3) The lender determines that the transferee has the repayment ability to meet the obligations of the assumed guaranteed loan, as well as any other indebtedness; and
(4) Any payments by the transferee to the transferor will not suspend the transferee's obligations to continue to meet the guaranteed loan payments as they come due under the terms of the assumption.
(l)
Annual renewal fees.
The lender must pay any annual renewal fee published in the
Federal Register
and then in effect at the time the loan is closed for the duration of the Loan Note Guarantee. Annual renewal fees are due for the entire year even if the Loan Note Guarantee is terminated before the end of the year.
§ 4287.135
Substitution of lender.
After the issuance of a Loan Note Guarantee, the lender is prohibited from selling or transferring the entire loan without the prior written approval of the Agency. Because the Loan Note Guarantee is associated with a specific promissory note and cannot be transferred to a new promissory note, the lender must transfer the original promissory note to the new lender, who must agree to its current loan terms, including the interest rate, secondary market holder (if any), collateral, loan agreement terms, and guarantors. The new lender must also obtain the original Loan Note Guarantee, original personal and corporate guarantee(s), and the loan payment history from the transferor lender. If the new lender wishes to modify the loan terms after acquisition, the new lender must submit a request to the Agency.
(a) The Agency may approve the substitution of a new lender if:
(1) The proposed substitute lender:
(i) Is an eligible lender in accordance with § 4279.29 of this chapter and is approved as such;
(ii) Is able to service the loan in accordance with the original loan documents; and
(iii) Agrees in writing to acquire title to the unguaranteed portion of the loan held by the original lender and assumes all original loan requirements, including liabilities and servicing responsibilities.
(2) The substitution of the lender is requested in writing by the borrower, the proposed substitute lender, and the original lender of record, if still in existence.
(b) The Agency will not pay any loss or share in any costs (
e.g.,
appraisal fees and environmental assessments) with a new lender unless a relationship is established through a substitution of lender in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. This includes situations where a lender is merged with or acquired by another lender and situations where the lender has failed and been taken over by a regulatory agency such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the loan is subsequently sold to another lender.
(c) Where the lender has failed and been taken over by the FDIC and the loan is liquidated by the FDIC rather than being sold to another lender, the Agency will pay losses and share in costs as if the FDIC were an approved substitute lender.
(d) In cases where there is a substitution of the lender, the Agency and the new lender must execute a new Form RD 4279-4, “Lender's Agreement,” unless a valid Lender's Agreement already exists with the new lender.
§ 4287.136
Lender failure.
(a)
Uninsured lender.
The lender or insuring agency cannot arbitrarily change the Lender's Agreement and related documents on the guaranteed
loan, and the Agency will make the successor to the failed institution aware of the statutory and regulatory requirements. If the acquiring institution is not an eligible lender as set forth in § 4279.29 of this chapter, the Loan Note Guarantee will not be enforceable, and the institution must promptly apply to become an eligible lender. The failure of the uninsured lender to become an eligible lender will result in the Loan Note Guarantee being unenforceable. A new lender approved by the Agency will be afforded the benefits of the Loan Note Guarantee in the sharing of any loss and eligible expenses subject to the limits that are set forth in the regulations governing the program.
(b)
Insured lender.
The FDIC and the Agency have entered into an Inter-Agency Agreement and all parties are to abide by this Agreement or successor document(s). This document sets forth the duties and responsibilities of each Agency when an institution fails. The lender must take such action that a reasonably prudent lender would take if it did not have a Loan Note Guarantee to protect the lender and Agency's mutual interest.
§§ 4287.137-4287.144
[Reserved]
§ 4287.145
Default by borrower.
The lender's primary responsibilities in default are to act prudently and expeditiously, to work with the borrower to bring the account current or cure the default through restructuring if a realistic plan can be developed, or to accelerate the account and conduct a liquidation in a manner that will minimize any potential loss. The lender may initiate liquidation subject to submission and approval of a complete liquidation plan.
(a) The lender must notify the Agency when a borrower is more than 30 days past due on a payment and the delinquency cannot be cured within 30 days or when a borrower is otherwise in default of covenants in the loan agreement by promptly submitting Form RD 1980-44, “Guaranteed Loan Borrower Default Status,” or processing the Default Status report in LINC. The lender must update the loan's status each month using either Form RD 1980-44 or the LINC Default Status report until such time as the loan is no longer in default. If a monetary default exceeds 60 days, the lender must meet with the Agency and, if practical, the borrower to discuss the situation.
(b) In considering options, the prospects for providing a permanent cure without adversely affecting the risk to the Agency and the lender is the paramount objective.
(1) Curative actions (subject to the rights of any holder and Agency concurrence) include, but are not limited to:
(i) Deferment of principal and/or interest payments;
(ii) An additional unguaranteed temporary loan by the lender to bring the account current;
(iii) Reamortization of or rescheduling the payments on the loan;
(iv) Transfer and assumption of the loan in accordance with § 4287.134;
(v) Reorganization;
(vi) Liquidation; and
(vii) Changes in interest rates with the Agency's, the lender's, and any holder's approval. Any interest payments must be adjusted proportionately between the guaranteed and unguaranteed portion of the loan.
(2) The term of any deferment, rescheduling, reamortization, or moratorium will be limited to the lesser of the remaining useful life of the collateral or remaining limits as set forth in § 4279.126 of this chapter (excluding paragraph (c)). During a period of deferment or moratorium on the guaranteed loan, the lender's unguaranteed loan(s) and any stockholder loans must also be under deferment or moratorium. Balloon payments are permitted as a loan servicing option as long as there is a reasonable prospect for success and the remaining life of the collateral supports the action.
(3) In the event of a loss or a repurchase, the lender cannot claim default or penalty interest, late payment fees, or interest on interest. If the restructuring includes the capitalization of interest, interest accrued on the capitalized interest will not be covered by the guarantee. Consequently, it is not eligible for repurchase from the holder and cannot be included in the loss claim.
(c) Debt write-downs for an existing borrower, where the same principals retain control of and decisionmaking authority for the business, are prohibited, except as directed or ordered under the Bankruptcy Code.
(d) For loans closed on or after August 2, 2016, in the event of a loss, the guarantee will not cover note interest to the lender accruing after 90 days from the most recent delinquency effective date.
(e) For loans closed on or after August 2, 2016, the lender or the Agency will issue an interest termination letter to the holder(s) establishing the termination date for interest accrual. The guarantee will not cover interest to any holder accruing after the greater of: 90 days from the date of the most recent delinquency effective date as reported by the lender or 30 days from the date of the interest termination letter.
(f) For repurchases of guaranteed loans, refer to § 4279.78 of this chapter.
§§ 4286.146-4287.155
[Reserved]
§ 4287.156
Protective advances.
Protective advances are advances made by the lender for the purpose of preserving and protecting the collateral where the debtor has failed to, will not, or cannot meet its obligations. Lenders must exercise sound judgment in determining that the protective advance preserves collateral and recovery is actually enhanced by making the advance. Lenders cannot make protective advances in lieu of additional loans. A protective advance claim will be paid only at the time of the final report of loss payment.
(a) The maximum loss to be paid by the Agency will never exceed the original loan amount plus accrued interest times the percentage of guarantee regardless of any protective advances made.
(b) In the event of a final loss, protective advances will accrue interest at the note rate and will be guaranteed at the same percentage of guarantee as provided for in the Loan Note Guarantee. The guarantee will not cover interest on the protective advance accruing after 90 days from the most recent delinquency effective date.
(c) Protective advances must constitute an indebtedness of the borrower to the lender and be secured by the security instruments. Agency written authorization is required when the cumulative total of protective advances exceeds $200,000 or 10 percent of the aggregate outstanding balance of principal and interest, whichever is less.
§ 4287.157
Liquidation.
In the event of one or more incidents of default or third party actions that the borrower cannot or will not cure within a reasonable period of time, the lender, with Agency consent, must liquidate the loan. In accordance with § 4287.145(d), for loans closed on or after August 2, 2016, in the event of a loss, the guarantee will not cover note interest to the lender accruing after 90 days from the most recent delinquency effective date.
(a)
Decision to liquidate.
A decision to liquidate must be made when the lender determines that the default cannot be cured through actions such as those contained in § 4287.145, or it has been determined that it is in the best interest of the Agency and the lender to liquidate. The decision to liquidate or continue with the borrower must be made as soon as possible when one or more of the following exist:
(1) A loan is 90 days behind on any scheduled payment and the lender and the borrower have not been able to cure the delinquency through actions such as those contained in § 4287.145.
(2) It is determined that delaying liquidation will jeopardize full recovery on the loan.
(3) The borrower or lender is uncooperative in resolving the problem or the Agency or lender has reason to believe the borrower is not acting in good faith, and it would improve the position of the guarantee to liquidate immediately.
(b)
Repurchase of loan.
When the decision to liquidate is made, if any portion of the loan has been sold or assigned under § 4279.75 of this chapter and not already repurchased, provisions will be made for repurchase in accordance with § 4279.78 of this chapter.
(c)
Lender's liquidation plan.
The lender is responsible for initiating actions immediately and as necessary to assure
a prompt, orderly liquidation that will provide maximum recovery. Within 30 days after a decision to liquidate, the lender must submit a written, proposed plan of liquidation to the Agency for approval. The liquidation plan must be detailed and include at least the following:
(1) Such proof as the Agency requires to establish the lender's ownership of the guaranteed loan promissory note and related security instruments and a copy of the payment ledger, if available, that reflects the current loan balance, accrued interest to date, and the method of computing the interest;
(2) A full and complete list of all collateral, including any personal and corporate guarantees;
(3) The recommended liquidation methods for making the maximum collection possible on the indebtedness and the justification for such methods, including recommended action for acquiring and disposing of all collateral and collecting from guarantors;
(4) Necessary steps for preservation of the collateral;
(5) Copies of the borrower's most recently available financial statements;
(6) Copies of each guarantor's most recently available financial statements;
(7) An itemized list of estimated liquidation expenses expected to be incurred along with justification for each expense;
(8) A schedule to periodically report to the Agency on the progress of liquidation, not to exceed every 60 days;
(9) Estimated protective advance amounts with justification;
(10) Proposed protective bid amounts on collateral to be sold at auction and a breakdown to show how the amounts were determined. A protective bid may be made by the lender, with prior Agency written approval, at a foreclosure sale to protect the lender's and the Agency's interest. The protective bid will not exceed the amount of the loan, including expenses of foreclosure, and must be based on the liquidation value considering estimated expenses for holding and reselling the property. These expenses include, but are not limited to, expenses for resale, interest accrual, length of time necessary for resale, maintenance, guard service, weatherization, and prior liens;
(11) If a voluntary conveyance is considered, the proposed amount to be credited to the guaranteed debt;
(12) Legal opinions, if needed by the lender's legal counsel; and
(13) An estimate of fair market and potential liquidation value of the collateral. If the value of the collateral is $250,000 or more, the lender must obtain an independent appraisal report meeting the requirements of § 4279.144 of this chapter for the collateral securing the loan, which reflects the fair market value and potential liquidation value. For collateral values under this threshold, lenders must follow their primary regulator's policies relating to appraisals and evaluations or, if the lender is not regulated, normal banking practices and generally accepted methods of determining value. The liquidation appraisal of the collateral must evaluate the impact on market value of any release of hazardous substances, petroleum products, or other environmental hazards. The independent appraiser's fee, including the cost of the environmental site assessment, will be shared equally by the Agency and the lender. In order to assure prompt action, the liquidation plan can be submitted with an estimate of collateral value, and the liquidation plan may be approved by the Agency subject to the results of the final liquidation appraisal.
(d)
Approval of liquidation plan.
The lender's liquidation plan must be approved by the Agency in writing. The lender and Agency must attempt to resolve any Agency concerns. If the liquidation plan is approved by the Agency, the lender must proceed expeditiously with liquidation and must take all legal action necessary to liquidate the loan in accordance with the approved liquidation plan. The lender must update or modify the liquidation plan when conditions warrant, including a change in value based on a liquidation appraisal. If the liquidation plan is not approved by the Agency, the lender must take such actions that a reasonably prudent lender would take without a guarantee and keep the Agency informed in writing. The lender
must continue to develop a liquidation plan in accordance with this section.
(e)
Acceleration.
The lender will proceed to accelerate the indebtedness as expeditiously as possible when acceleration is necessary, including giving any notices and taking any other legal actions required. The guaranteed loan will be considered in liquidation once the loan has been accelerated and a demand for payment has been made upon the borrower. The lender must obtain Agency concurrence prior to the acceleration of the loan if the sole basis for acceleration is a nonmonetary default. In the case of monetary default, prior approval by the Agency of the lender's acceleration is not required, although Agency concurrence must still be given not later than at the time the liquidation plan is approved. The lender will provide a copy of the acceleration notice or other acceleration document to the Agency.
(f)
Filing an estimated loss claim.
When the lender owns any of the guaranteed portion of the loan, the lender must file an estimated loss claim once a decision has been made to liquidate if the liquidation is expected to exceed 90 days. The estimated loss payment will be based on the liquidation value of the collateral. For the purpose of reporting and loss claim computation, for loans closed on or after August 2, 2016, the guarantee will not cover note interest to the lender accruing after 90 days from the most recent delinquency effective date. The Agency will promptly process the loss claim in accordance with applicable Agency regulations as set forth in § 4287.158.
(g)
Accounting and reports.
The lender must account for funds during the period of liquidation and must, in accordance with the Agency-approved liquidation plan, provide the Agency with reports on the progress of liquidation including disposition of collateral, resulting costs, and additional procedures necessary for successful completion of the liquidation.
(h)
Transmitting payments and proceeds to the Agency.
When the Agency is the holder of a portion of the guaranteed loan, the lender must transmit to the Agency its pro rata share of any payments received from the borrower, liquidation, or other proceeds using Form RD 1980-43, “Lender's Guaranteed Loan Payment to Rural Development.”
(i)
Abandonment of collateral.
When the lender adequately documents that the cost of liquidation would exceed the potential recovery value of certain collateral and receives Agency concurrence, the lender may abandon that collateral. When the lender makes a recommendation for abandonment of collateral, it must comply with 7 CFR part 1970, “Environmental Policies and Procedures.”
(j)
Personal or corporate guarantees.
The lender must take action to maximize recovery from all personal and corporate guarantees, including seeking deficiency judgments when there is a reasonable chance of future collection.
(k)
Compromise settlement.
Compromise settlements must be approved by the lender and the Agency. Complete current financial information on all parties obligated for the loan must be provided. At a minimum, the compromise settlement must be equivalent to the value and timeliness of that which would be received from attempting to collect on the guarantee. The guarantor cannot be released from liability until the full amount of the compromise settlement has been received. In weighing whether the compromise settlement should be accepted, among other things, the Agency will weigh whether the comparison is more financially advantageous than collecting on the guarantee.
(l)
Litigation.
In all litigation proceedings involving the borrower, the lender is responsible for protecting the rights of the lender and the Agency with respect to the loan and keeping the Agency adequately and regularly informed, in writing, of all aspects of the proceedings. If the Agency determines that the lender is not adequately protecting the rights of the lender or the Agency with respect to the loan, the Agency reserves the right to take any legal action the Agency determines necessary to protect the rights of the lender, on behalf of the lender, or the Agency with respect to the loan. If the Agency exercises this right, the lender must cooperate with the Agency. Any cost to the Agency associated
with such action will be assessed against the lender.
§ 4287.158
Determination of loss and payment.
Unless the Agency anticipates a future recovery, the Agency will make a final settlement with the lender after the collateral is liquidated or after settlement and compromise of all parties has been completed. The Agency has the right to recover losses paid under the guarantee from any party that may be liable.
(a)
Report of loss form.
Form RD 449-30, “Loan Note Guarantee Report of Loss,” will be used for reporting and calculating all estimated and final loss determinations.
(b)
Estimated loss.
In accordance with the requirements of § 4287.157(f), the lender must prepare an estimated loss claim, based on liquidation appraisal value, and submit it to the Agency. When the lender is conducting the liquidation and owns any or all of the guaranteed portion of the loan, the lender must file an estimated loss claim once a decision has been made to liquidate if the liquidation will exceed 90 days. The estimated loss payment will be based on the liquidation value of the collateral.
(1) Such estimate will be prepared and submitted by the lender on Form RD 449-30 using the basic formula as provided on the report, except that the liquidation appraisal value will be used in lieu of the amount received from the sale of collateral. Interest accrual eligible for payment under the guarantee on the defaulted loan will be discontinued when the estimated loss is paid.
(2) A protective advance claim will be paid only at the time of the final report of loss payment.
(c)
Final loss.
Within 30 days after liquidation of all collateral is completed (except for certain unsecured personal or corporate guarantees as provided for in this section), the lender must prepare a final report of loss and submit it to the Agency. If the lender holds all or a portion of the guaranteed loan, the Agency will not guarantee interest to the lender accruing after 90 days from the most recent delinquency effective date. The Agency will not guarantee interest to any holder accruing after the greater of: 90 days from the date of the most recent delinquency effective date as reported by the lender or 30 days from the date of the interest termination letter. Before approval by the Agency of any final loss report, the lender must account for all funds during the period of liquidation, disposition of the collateral, all costs incurred, and any other information necessary for the successful completion of liquidation. Upon receipt of the final accounting and report of loss, the Agency may audit all applicable documentation to determine the final loss. The lender must make its records available and otherwise assist the Agency in making any investigation. The documentation accompanying the report of loss must support the amounts reported as losses on Form RD 449-30.
(1) The lender must make a determination regarding the collectability of unsecured personal and corporate guarantees. If reasonably possible, the lender must promptly collect or otherwise dispose of such guarantees in accordance with § 4287.157(j) prior to completion of the final loss report. However, in the event that collection from the guarantors appears unlikely or will require a prolonged period of time, the lender must file the report of loss when all other collateral has been liquidated. Unsecured personal or corporate guarantees outstanding at the time of the submission of the final loss claim will be treated as a future recovery with the net proceeds to be shared on a pro rata basis by the lender and the Agency. Debts owed to the Agency (Federal debt) may be collected using DCIA authority. The Agency may consider a compromise settlement of Federal debt after it has processed a final report of loss and issued a 60 day due process letter. Any funds collected on Federal debt will not be shared with the lender.
(2) The lender must document that all of the collateral has been accounted for and properly liquidated and that liquidation proceeds have been accounted for and applied correctly to the loan.
(3) The lender must provide receipts and a breakdown of any protective advance amount as to the payee, purpose
of the expenditure, date paid, and evidence that the amount expended was proper.
(4) The lender must provide receipts and a breakdown of liquidation expenses as to the payee, purpose of the expenditure, date paid, and evidence that the amount expended was proper. Liquidation expenses are recoverable only from liquidation proceeds. The Agency may approve attorney/legal fees as liquidation expenses provided that the fees are reasonable, require the assistance of attorneys, and cover legal issues pertaining to the liquidation that could not be properly handled by the lender and its employees.
(5) The lender must support accrued interest by documenting how the amount was accrued. If the interest rate was a variable rate, the lender must include documentation of changes in both the selected base rate and the loan rate.
(6) The Agency will pay loss payments within 60 days after it has reviewed the complete final loss report and accounting of the collateral.
(d)
Loss limit.
The amount payable by the Agency to the lender cannot exceed the limits set forth in the Loan Note Guarantee.
(e)
Liquidation expenses.
The Agency will deduct liquidation expenses from the liquidation proceeds of the collateral. The lender cannot claim any liquidation expenses in excess of liquidation proceeds. Any changes to the liquidation expenses that exceed 10 percent of the amount proposed in the liquidation plan must be approved by the Agency. Reasonable attorney/legal expenses will be shared by the lender and Agency equally, including those instances where the lender has incurred such expenses from a trustee conducting the liquidation of assets. The lender cannot claim the guarantee fee or the annual renewal fee as authorized liquidation expenses, and no in-house expenses of the lender will be allowed. In-house expenses include, but are not limited to, employee's salaries, staff lawyers, travel, and overhead.
(f)
Rent.
The lender must apply any net rental or other income that it receives from the collateral to the guaranteed loan debt.
(g)
Payment.
Once the Agency approves Form RD 449-30 and supporting documents submitted by the lender:
(1) If the loss is greater than any estimated loss payment, the Agency will pay the additional amount owed by the Agency to the lender.
(2) If the loss is less than the estimated loss payment, the lender must reimburse the Agency for the overpayment plus interest at the note rate from the date of payment.
§§ 4287.159-4287.168
[Reserved]
§ 4287.169
Future recovery.
Unless notified otherwise by the Agency, after the final loss claim has been paid, the lender must use reasonable efforts to attempt collection from any party still liable on any loan that was guaranteed. Any net proceeds from that effort must be split pro rata between the lender and the Agency based on the percentage of guarantee. Any collection of Federal debt made by the United State from any liable party to the guaranteed loan will not be split with the lender.
§ 4287.170
Bankruptcy.
(a)
Lender's responsibilities.
It is the lender's responsibility to protect the guaranteed loan and all of the collateral securing it in bankruptcy proceedings, including taking actions that result in greater recoveries and not taking actions that would not likely be cost-effective. These responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Monitoring confirmed bankruptcy plans to determine borrower compliance, and, if the borrower fails to comply, seeking a dismissal of the bankruptcy plan;
(2) Filing a proof of claim, where necessary, and all the necessary papers and pleadings concerning the case;
(3) Attending and, where necessary, participating in meetings of the creditors and all court proceedings;
(4) Requesting modifications of any bankruptcy plan whenever it appears that additional recoveries are likely; and
(5) Keeping the Agency adequately and regularly informed in writing of all aspects of the proceedings.
(6) The lender must submit a default status report when the borrower defaults and every 30 days until the default is resolved or a final loss claim is paid by the Agency. The default status report will be used to inform the Agency of the bankruptcy filing, the plan confirmation date, when the plan is complete, and when the borrower is not in compliance with the plan.
(7) With written Agency consent, the lender and Agency will equally share the cost of any independent appraisal fee to protect the guaranteed loan in any bankruptcy proceedings.
(b)
Reports of loss during bankruptcy.
In bankruptcy proceedings, payment of loss claims will be made as provided in this section. Attorney/legal fees and protective advances as a result of a bankruptcy are only recoverable from liquidation proceeds.
(1)
Estimated loss payments.
(i) If a borrower has filed for bankruptcy and all or a portion of the debt has been discharged, the lender must request an estimated loss payment of the guaranteed portion of the accrued interest and principal discharged by the court. Only one estimated loss payment is allowed during the bankruptcy. All subsequent claims of the lender during bankruptcy will be considered revisions to the initial estimated loss. A revised estimated loss payment may be processed by the Agency, at its option, in accordance with any court-approved changes in the bankruptcy plan. Once the bankruptcy plan has been completed, the lender is responsible for submitting the documentation necessary for the Agency to review and adjust the estimated loss claim to reflect any actual discharge of principal and interest and to reimburse the lender for any court-ordered interest-rate reduction under the terms of the bankruptcy plan.
(ii) The lender must use Form RD 449-30 to request an estimated loss payment and to revise any estimated loss payments during the course of the bankruptcy plan. The estimated loss claim, as well as any revisions to this claim, must be accompanied by documentation to support the claim.
(iii) Upon completion of a bankruptcy plan, the lender must complete Form RD 1980-44 and forward it to the Agency.
(iv) Upon completion of the bankruptcy plan, the lender must provide the Agency with the documentation necessary to determine whether the estimated loss paid equals the actual loss sustained. If the actual loss sustained as a result of the bankruptcy is less than the estimated loss, the lender must reimburse the Agency for the overpayment plus interest at the note rate from the date of payment of the estimated loss. If the actual loss is greater than the estimated loss payment, the lender must submit a revised estimated loss claim in order to obtain payment of the additional amount owed by the Agency to the lender.
(2)
Bankruptcy loss payments.
(i) The lender must request a bankruptcy loss payment of the guaranteed portion of the accrued interest and principal discharged by the court for all bankruptcies when all or a portion of the debt has been discharged. Unless a court approves a subsequent change to the bankruptcy plan that is adverse to the lender, only one bankruptcy loss payment is allowed during the bankruptcy. Once the court has discharged all or part of the guaranteed loan and any appeal period has run, the lender must submit the documentation necessary for the Agency to review and adjust the bankruptcy loss claim to reflect any actual discharge of principal and interest.
(ii) The lender must use Form RD 449-30 to request a bankruptcy loss payment and to revise any bankruptcy loss payments during the course of the bankruptcy. The lender must include with the bankruptcy loss claim documentation to support the claim, as well as any revisions to this claim.
(iii) Upon completion of a bankruptcy plan, restructure, or liquidation, the lender must either complete Form RD 1980-44 and forward it to the Agency or enter the data directly into LINC.
(iv) If an estimated loss claim is paid during a bankruptcy and the borrower repays in full the remaining balance without an additional loss sustained by the lender, a final report of loss is not necessary.
(3)
Interest rate losses as a result of bankruptcy reorganization.
(i) For guaranteed loans closed prior to August 2, 2016:
(A) Interest losses sustained during the period of the bankruptcy plan will be processed in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(B) Interest losses sustained after the bankruptcy plan is confirmed will be processed annually when the lender sustains a loss as a result of a permanent interest rate reduction that extends beyond the period of the bankruptcy plan.
(C) If a bankruptcy loss claim is paid during the operation of the bankruptcy plan and the borrower repays in full the remaining balance without an additional loss sustained by the lender, a final report of loss is not necessary.
(ii) For guaranteed loans closed on or after August 2, 2016, the Agency will not compensate the lender for any difference in the interest rate specified in the Loan Note Guarantee and the rate of interest specified in the bankruptcy plan.
(4)
Final bankruptcy loss payments.
The Agency will process final bankruptcy loss payments when the loan is fully liquidated.
(5)
Application of loss claim payments.
The lender must apply estimated loss payments first to the unsecured principal of the guaranteed portion of the debt and then to the unsecured interest of the guaranteed portion of the debt. In the event a court attempts to direct the payments to be applied in a different manner, the lender must immediately notify the Agency in writing.
(6)
Protective advances.
If approved protective advances, as authorized by § 4287.156, were incurred in connection with the initiation of liquidation action and were required to provide repairs, insurance, etc., to protect the collateral as a result of delays in the case of failure of the borrower to maintain the security prior to the borrower having filed bankruptcy, the protective advances together with accrued interest, are payable under the guarantee in the final loss claim.
(c)
Expenses during bankruptcy proceedings.
(1) Under no circumstances will the guarantee cover liquidation expenses in excess of liquidation proceeds.
(2) Expenses, such as reasonable attorney/legal fees and the cost of appraisals incurred by the lender as a direct result of the borrower's bankruptcy filing, are considered liquidation expenses. Liquidation expenses must be reasonable, customary, and provide a demonstrated economic benefit to the lender and the Agency. Lender's in-house expenses, which are those expenses that would normally be incurred for administration of the loan, including in-house lawyers, are not covered by the guarantee. Liquidation expenses must be deducted from collateral sale proceeds. The lender and Agency will share liquidation expenses equally. To accomplish this, the lender will deduct 50 percent of the liquidation expenses from the collateral sale proceeds.
(3) When a bankruptcy proceeding results in a liquidation of the borrower by a bankruptcy trustee, expenses will be handled as directed by the court, and the lender cannot claim liquidation expenses for the sale of the assets.
(4) If the property is abandoned by the bankruptcy trustee and any relief from the stay has been obtained, the lender will conduct the liquidation in accordance with § 4287.157.
(5) Proceeds received from the partial sale of collateral during bankruptcy may be used by the lender to pay reasonable costs associated with the partial sale, such as freight, labor, and sales commissions. Reasonable use of proceeds for this purpose must be documented with the final loss claim.
(6) Reasonable and customary liquidation expenses in bankruptcy may be deducted from liquidation proceeds of collateral.
[81 FR 36020, June 3, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 54477, Aug. 16, 2016]
§§ 4287.171-4287.179
[Reserved]
§ 4287.180
Termination of guarantee.
The Loan Note Guarantee will terminate under any of the following conditions:
(a) Upon full payment of the guaranteed loan;
(b) Upon full payment of any loss obligation; or
(c) Upon written notice from the lender to the Agency that the guarantee will terminate 30 days after the date of notice, provided that the lender holds all of the guaranteed portion and the Loan Note Guarantee is returned to the Agency to be canceled.
§§ 4287.181-4287.199
[Reserved]
§ 4287.200
OMB control number.
In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, the information collection requirements contained in this rule have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under OMB Control Number 0570-0069 for OMB approval.

# Subpart D—Servicing Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Manufacturing Assistance Guaranteed Loans

# Source:
80 FR 36447, June 24, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 4287.301
Introduction.
(a) This subpart supplements 7 CFR part 4279, subpart C by providing additional requirements and instructions for servicing and liquidating all loans guaranteed under 7 CFR part 4279, subpart C.
(b) The Lender is responsible for servicing the entire loan and will remain mortgagee and secured party of record notwithstanding the fact that another party may hold a portion of the loan. The entire loan must continue to be secured by the same security with equal lien priority for the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan. The unguaranteed portion of a loan will neither be paid first nor given any preference or priority over the guaranteed portion of the loan.
(c) All loan servicing actions under this subpart, except for those identified in § 4287.307(a) through (g), are subject to Agency concurrence. Whether specifically stated or not, whenever Agency approval is required, it must be in writing. Whenever Agency approval is required, such servicing action must be for Good Cause.
(d) Copies of all forms, regulations, and Instructions referenced in this subpart may be obtained from any Agency office and from the USDA Rural Development Web site at
http://www.rd.usda.gov/programs-services/biorefinery-assistance-program
. Whenever a form is designated in this subpart, that designation includes predecessor and successor forms, if applicable, as specified by the Agency.
§ 4287.302
Definitions.
The definitions and abbreviations contained in § 4279.202 of this chapter apply to this subpart.
§ 4287.303
Exception authority.
The Administrator may, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Agriculture, make an exception, on a case-by-case basis, to any requirement or provision of this subpart that is not inconsistent with any authorizing statute or applicable law, if the Administrator determines that application of the requirement or provision would adversely affect the Federal government's interest.
§§ 4287.304-4287.305
[Reserved]
§ 4287.306
Appeals.
Borrowers, Lenders, and Holders have appeal or review rights for Agency decisions made under this subpart. Programmatic decisions based on clear and objective statutory or regulatory requirements are not appealable; however, such decisions are reviewable for appealability by the National Appeals Division (NAD). The Borrower, Lender, and Holder can appeal any Agency decision that directly and adversely impacts them. For an adverse decision that impacts the Borrower, the Lender and Borrower must jointly execute a written request for appeal for an alleged adverse decision made by the Agency. An adverse decision that only impacts the Lender may be appealed by the Lender only. An adverse decision that only impacts the Holder may be appealed by the Holder only. A decision by a Lender adverse to the interest of the Borrower is not a decision by the Agency, whether or not concurred in by the Agency. Appeals will be conducted by NAD and will be handled in accordance with 7 CFR part 11.
§ 4287.307
Routine servicing.
The Lender is responsible for servicing the entire loan and for taking all servicing actions that a reasonable Lender would perform in servicing its own portfolio of loans that are not guaranteed. The guarantee is unenforceable by the Lender to the extent any loss is occasioned by violation of usury laws, use of loan funds for unauthorized purposes, Negligent Loan Servicing or Grossly Negligent Loan Servicing as established in the Loan Note Guarantee, or failure to maintain the required security interest regardless of the time at which the Agency acquires knowledge of the foregoing. The Lender may contract for services and may rely on certain written materials (including but not limited to certifications, evaluations, appraisals, financial statements and other reports) to be provided by the Borrower or other qualified third parties (including, among others, one or more independent engineers, appraisers, accountants, consultants or other experts) but is ultimately responsible for underwriting, loan origination, loan servicing, and compliance with all Agency regulations. The Lender's Agreement is the contractual agreement between the Lender and the Agency that sets forth some of the Lender's loan servicing responsibilities. This responsibility includes but is not limited to periodic Borrower visits, the collection of payments, obtaining compliance with the covenants and provisions in the Loan Agreement, obtaining and analyzing financial statements, ensuring payment of taxes and insurance premiums, and maintaining liens on Collateral, and keeping an inventory accounting of all Collateral items and reconciling the inventory of all Collateral sold during loan servicing, including liquidation.
(a)
Periodic reports.
Each Lender must submit reports by the end of each Calendar Quarter, unless more frequent ones are needed as determined by the Agency to meet the financial interests of the United States, regarding the condition of its Agency guaranteed loan portfolio (including Borrower status and Loan Classification) and any Material Adverse Change in the general financial condition of the Borrower since the last report was submitted. The Lender must report the outstanding principal and Interest balance and the current Loan Classification on each guaranteed loan using either the USDA Lender Interactive Network Connection (LINC) system or Form RD 1980-41, “Guaranteed Loan Status Report.”
(b)
Default reports.
Lenders must submit monthly Default reports, including Borrower payment history, for each loan in monetary Default using a form approved by the Agency.
(c)
Annual Renewal Fee.
The Lender must transmit the Annual Renewal Fee to the Agency in accordance with § 4279.231(b) of this chapter calculated based on the December 31 loan status report.
(d)
Agency and Lender conference.
At the Agency's request, the Lender must consult with the Agency to ascertain how the guaranteed loan is being serviced and that the conditions and covenants of the Loan Agreement are being enforced.
(e)
Borrower Financial reports.
The Lender must obtain, analyze, and forward to the Agency the Borrower's and any guarantor's financial statements required by the Loan Agreement within 45 days of the end of each Calendar Quarter and audited financial statements within 180 days of the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. The Lender must analyze these financial statements and provide the Agency with a written summary of the Lender's analysis, ratio analysis, and conclusions, which, at a minimum, must include trends, strengths, weaknesses, extraordinary transactions, violations of loan covenants and covenant waivers proposed by the Lender, any routine servicing actions performed, and other indications of the financial condition of the Borrower. Spreadsheets of the financial statements must also be included. Following the Agency's review of the Lender's financial analysis, the Agency will provide a written report of any concerns to the Lender. Any concerns based upon the Agency's review must be addressed by the Lender. If the Lender makes a reasonable attempt to obtain financial statements, but is unable to obtain the Borrower's cooperation, the failure to obtain financial
statements will not impair the validity of the Loan Note Guarantee.
(f)
Audits.
Any Public Body, nonprofit corporation or Indian Tribe that receives a guaranteed loan that meets the thresholds established by 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, must provide an audit for the fiscal year (of the borrower) in which the Loan Note Guarantee is issued. If the loan is for development or purchases made in a previous fiscal year through interim financing, an audit will also be provided for the fiscal year in which the development or purchases occurred. Any audit provided by a Public Body, nonprofit corporation, or Indian Tribe in accordance with this paragraph (f) will be considered adequate to meet the audit requirements of the Program for that year.
(g)
Protection of Agency interests.
If the Agency determines that the Lender is not in compliance with its servicing responsibilities, the Agency reserves the right to take any action the Agency determines necessary to protect the Agency's interests with respect to the loan. If the Agency exercises this right, the Lender must cooperate with the Agency to rectify the situation. In determining any loss, the Agency will assess against the Lender any cost to the Agency associated with such action.
(h)
Additional loans.
The Lender must notify the Agency in writing when the Lender makes any additional expenditures or new loans to the Borrower. The Lender may make additional expenditures or new loans to a Borrower with an outstanding loan guaranteed only with prior written Agency approval. The Agency will only approve additional expenditures or new loans where the expenditure or loan will not violate one or more of the loan covenants of the Borrower's Loan Agreement. Any additional expenditure or loan made by the Lender must be junior in priority to the BAP loan guaranteed under 7 CFR part 4279 except for Working Capital loans for which the Agency may consider a subordinate lien provided it is consistent with the conditional provisions specified in § 4279.235(a) of this chapter and in § 4287.323.
§§ 4287.308-4287.311
[Reserved]
§ 4287.312
Interest rate changes.
(a)
Reductions.
The Borrower, Lender, and Holder (if any) may collectively initiate a permanent or temporary reduction in the Interest rate of the guaranteed loan at any time during the life of the loan upon written agreement among these parties. The Lender must obtain prior Agency concurrence and must provide a copy of the modification agreement to the Agency. If any of the guaranteed portion has been purchased by the Agency, the Agency (as a Holder) will affirm or reject Interest rate change proposals in writing.
(1) Fixed rates can be changed to variable rates to reduce the Borrower's Interest rate only when the variable rate has a ceiling which is less than or equal to the original fixed rate.
(2) The Interest rates, after adjustments, must comply with the requirements for Interest rates on new loans as established by § 4279.233 of this chapter.
(3) The Lender is responsible for the legal documentation of Interest rate changes by an endorsement or any other legally effective amendment to the Promissory Note; however, no new Promissory Notes may be issued. The Lender must provide copies of all legal documents to the Agency.
(b)
Increases.
Increases in fixed Interest rates and increases in variable rate basis are not permitted (except the normal fluctuations in approved variable Interest rates), unless a temporary Interest rate reduction occurred. Any increase in rates must be for Good Cause.
§ 4287.313
Release of Collateral.
The Lender must inspect the Collateral as often as necessary to properly service the loan. The Agency must give prior written approval for the release of Collateral, except as specified in paragraph (a) of this section or where the release of Collateral is made of Collateral under the abundance of caution provision of the applicable security agreement, subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section. Appraisals on the Collateral being released are required on all transactions exceeding $250,000 and will be at the expense of
the Borrower. The appraisal must meet the requirements of § 4279.244 of this chapter. The sale or release of Collateral must be based on an Arm's Length Transaction, unless otherwise approved by the Agency in writing.
(a) Within the parameters of paragraph (c) of this section, Lenders may, over the life of the guaranteed loan, release Collateral (other than personal and corporate guarantees) with a cumulative value of up to 20 percent of the original loan amount without Agency concurrence if the proceeds generated are used to reduce the guaranteed loan or to buy replacement Collateral. Working assets, such as accounts receivable, inventory, and work-in-progress that are routinely depleted or sold and the proceeds used for the normal course of business operations, may be used in and released for routine business purposes without prior concurrence of the Agency as long as the loan has not been accelerated.
(b) If a release of Collateral does not meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the Lender must complete a written evaluation to justify the release and must obtain written Agency concurrence in advance of the release.
(c) The Lender must support all releases of Collateral with a value exceeding $250,000 with a current appraisal on the Collateral being released. The appraisal must meet the requirements of § 4279.244 of this chapter. The cost of this appraisal will not be paid for by the Agency. The Agency may, at its discretion, require an appraisal of the remaining Collateral in cases where it has been determined that the Agency may be adversely affected by the release of Collateral. The sale or release of the Collateral must be at Fair Market Value based on an Arm's Length Transaction, and there must be adequate consideration for the release of Collateral. Such consideration may include, but is not limited to:
(1) Application of the net proceeds from the sale of Collateral to the Borrower's debts in order of their lien priority in the sold Collateral;
(2) Use of the net proceeds from the sale of Collateral to purchase other Collateral of equal or greater value which the Lender will obtain as security for the benefit of the guaranteed loan with a lien position equal or superior to the position previously held;
(3) Application of the net proceeds from the sale of Collateral to the Borrower's business operation in such a manner that a significant improvement to the Borrower's debt service ability is clearly demonstrated. The Lender's written request must detail how the Borrower's debt service ability will be improved; and
(4) Assurance that the release of Collateral is essential for the success of the business, thereby furthering the goals of the Program. Such assurance must be supported by written documentation from the Lender acceptable to the Agency.
(d) Any release of Collateral must not adversely affect the Project's operation or financial condition.
§§ 4287.314-4287.322
[Reserved]
§ 4287.323
Subordination of lien position.
A Subordination of the Lender's lien position must be requested in writing by the Lender and concurred with in writing by the Agency in advance of the Subordination. The Lender's Subordination proposal must include a financial analysis of the servicing action and be fully supported by current financial statements of the Borrower and guarantors that are less than 90 days old.
(a) The Subordination of the Lender's lien position must enhance the Borrower's business and be in the best financial interest of the Agency.
(b) The lien to which the guaranteed loan is subordinated is for a fixed dollar limit and for a fixed term after which the guaranteed loan lien priority will be restored. Notwithstanding, a Subordination of lien position on inventory and accounts receivable may be made to a line of credit.
(c) Collateral must remain sufficient to provide for adequate Collateral coverage. The Agency may require a current independent appraisal in accordance with § 4279.244 of this chapter.
(d) Lien priorities must remain for the portion of the loan Collateral that was not subordinated.
(e) Subordination of the Lender's lien position must be for Good Cause.
§ 4287.324
Alterations of loan instruments.
The Lender must neither alter nor approve any alterations or modifications of any loan instrument without the prior written approval of the Agency.
§§ 4287.325-4287.333
[Reserved]
§ 4287.334
Transfer and Assumption.
The Lender may request a Transfer and Assumption of a guaranteed loan when the total indebtedness, or less than the total indebtedness, is assumed by another Borrower. If the assumption is for less than the total indebtedness of the guaranteed loan, the Transfer and Assumption must be an Arm's Length Transaction and the transfer must be of all loan Collateral. In the event of Default of the guaranteed loan, a Transfer and Assumption of the Borrower's operation and guaranteed loan can be accomplished before or after the loan goes into liquidation. However, if the Collateral has been purchased through foreclosure or the Borrower has conveyed title to the Lender, no Transfer and Assumption is permitted.
(a)
Documentation of request.
All Transfers and Assumptions cannot be conducted unless the Agency gives prior written approval. An individual credit report must be provided for transferee and its partners, officers, directors, and stockholders with 20 percent or more interest in the business, along with such other documentation as the Agency may request to determine eligibility and credit worthiness. The new Borrower must sign Form RD 4279-1.
(b)
Terms.
Loan terms may be changed for Transfer and Assumptions to eligible Borrowers continuing the Project for eligible purposes with the concurrence of the Agency, all Holders, and the transferor (including guarantors). If the transferor has been or will be released from liability, the transferor's concurrence is not required. Any new loan terms must be within the terms authorized by § 4279.234 of this chapter and must be for Good Cause.
(c)
Release of liability.
The transferor, including any guarantor, may be released from liability only with prior Agency written concurrence when the Transfer and Assumption is an Arm's Length Transaction and:
(1) The assumption is for the full amount of the loan and all of the loan Collateral is transferred to the transferee; or
(2) The assumption is for less than the full amount of the loan, all of the loan Collateral is transferred to the transferee, and the Lender demonstrates to the Agency that the transferor and guarantors have no reasonable debt-paying ability considering their assets and income in the foreseeable future.
(d)
Proceeds.
The Lender must credit any proceeds received from the sale of Collateral before a Transfer and Assumption to the transferor's guaranteed loan debt in order of lien priority before the Transfer and Assumption are closed.
(e)
Additional loans.
Guaranteed loans to provide additional funds in connection with a Transfer and Assumption must be considered a new loan application, which requires submission of a complete Agency application in accordance with §§ 4279.260 and 4279.261 of this chapter.
(f)
Credit quality.
The Lender must make a complete credit analysis in accordance with § 4279.215 of this chapter.
(g)
Appraisals.
If the proposed Transfer and Assumption is for the full amount of the Agency guaranteed loan and all loan Collateral, the Agency will not require an appraisal. If the proposed Transfer and Assumption is for less than the full amount of the Agency guaranteed loan, the Agency will require an appraisal on all of the Collateral being transferred, and the amount of the assumption must not be less than this appraised value. The Lender is responsible for obtaining this appraisal, which must conform to the requirements of § 4279.244 of this chapter. The Agency will not pay the appraisal fee or any other costs associated with this transfer.
(h)
Documents.
Prior to Agency approval, the Lender must provide the Agency a written legal opinion that the transaction can be properly and legally transferred and assurance that the conveyance instruments will be appropriately filed, registered, and recorded.
(1) The Lender must not issue any new Promissory Notes. The assumption must be completed in accordance with applicable law and must contain the Agency case number of the transferor and transferee. The Lender will provide the Agency with a copy of the Transfer and Assumption agreement. The Lender must ensure that all Transfers and Assumptions are noted on all original Loan Note Guarantees.
(2) A new Loan Agreement, consistent in principle with the original Loan Agreement, must be executed to establish the terms and conditions of the loan being assumed. An assumption agreement can be used to establish the loan covenants.
(3) Upon execution of the Transfer and Assumption, the Lender must provide the Agency with a written legal opinion that the Transfer and Assumption is completed, valid, enforceable, and certification that the Transfer and Assumption is consistent with the conditions outlined in the Agency's conditions of approval for the transfer and complies with all Agency regulations.
(i)
Loss resulting from transfer.
(1) Any resulting loss must be processed in accordance with § 4287.358.
(2) If a Holder owns any of the guaranteed portion, such portion must be repurchased by the Lender or the Agency in accordance with § 4279.225 of this chapter.
(j)
Related party.
If the transferor and transferee are Affiliates or related parties, any Transfer and Assumption must be to an eligible Borrower to continue the Project for eligible purposes, must transfer all of the loan Collateral, and must be for the full amount of the guaranteed loan indebtedness.
(k)
Cash down payment.
The Lender may allow the transferee to make cash down payments directly to the transferor provided:
(1) The Transfer and Assumption is made for the total indebtedness to an eligible Borrower to continue the Project for eligible purposes;
(2) The Lender recommends that the cash be released, and the Agency concurs prior to the transaction being completed. The Lender may require that an amount be retained for a defined period of time as a reserve against future Defaults. Interest on such account may be paid periodically to the transferor or transferee as agreed;
(3) The Lender determines that the transferee has the repayment ability to meet the obligations of the assumed guaranteed loan as well as any other indebtedness; and
(4) Any payments by the transferee to the transferor will not suspend the transferee's obligations to continue to meet the guaranteed loan payments as they come due under the terms of the assumption.
(l)
Transfer/Annual Renewal Fees.
(1) The Agency will charge a nonrefundable transfer fee at the time of transfer, which may be passed on to the Borrower by the Lender. The transfer fee rate will be equal to the rate of the guarantee fee authorized in § 4279.231(a) of this chapter for the fiscal year in which the transfer occurs. The amount of the transfer fee is determined by multiplying the principal balance at the time of the transfer by the transfer fee rate by the percentage of guarantee on the original loan.
(2) The Lender must pay any Annual Renewal Fee in accordance with § 4279.231(b) of this chapter.
(m)
Change in control of Borrower.
Transfer and Assumption shall be deemed to occur in the event of a change in the control of the Borrower.
(n)
Personal and corporate guarantees.
Guarantees from owners are required in accordance with § 4279.245 of this chapter.
§ 4287.335
Substitution of Lender.
The Lender is prohibited from selling or transferring the entire loan without the prior written approval of the Agency. Because the Loan Note Guarantee is associated with a specific Promissory Note and cannot be transferred to a new Promissory Note, the Lender must transfer the original Promissory Note and loan security documents to
the new Lender, who must agree to its current loan terms, including the Interest rate, secondary market Holder (if any), Collateral, Loan Agreement terms, and guarantors. The new Lender must also obtain the original Loan Note Guarantee, original personal and corporate guarantee(s), and the loan payment history from the transferor Lender. If the new Lender wishes to modify the loan terms after acquisition, the new Lender must submit a request to the Agency.
(a) The Agency may approve the substitution of a new Lender if:
(1) The proposed substitute Lender:
(i) Is an eligible Lender in accordance with § 4279.208 of this chapter;
(ii) Is able to service the loan in accordance with the original loan documents; and
(iii) Agrees to acquire title to the unguaranteed portion of the loan held by the original Lender and assumes all original loan requirements, including liabilities and servicing responsibilities; and
(2) The substitution of the Lender is requested in writing by the Borrower, the proposed substitute Lender, and the original Lender if still in existence.
(b) The Agency will not pay any loss or share in any costs (
e.g.,
appraisal fees and environmental assessments) with a new Lender unless a relationship is established through a substitution of Lender in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. This includes situations where a Lender is acquired by another Lender and situations where the Lender has failed and been taken over by a regulatory agency such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the loan is subsequently sold to another Lender.
(c) In cases when there is a substitution of Lender or when a Lender has been merged with or acquired by another Lender, the Agency and the new Lender must execute a new Lender's Agreement, unless a valid Lender's Agreement already exists with the new Lender.
§ 4287.336
Lender failure.
(a) The acquiring Lender must comply with 7 CFR parts 4279, subpart C and 4287, subpart D and must take such action that a reasonable Lender would take if it did not have a Loan Note Guarantee to protect the Lender and Agency's mutual interest. The Lender cannot arbitrarily change the Lender's Agreement and related documents on the guaranteed loan, and the Agency will make the successor to the failed institution aware of the statutory and regulatory requirements.
(b) In the event of a Default and the guaranteed loan is liquidated by the FDIC rather than being sold to another Lender, the Agency will pay losses and share in costs as if the FDIC were an approved new Lender.
§§ 4287.337-4287.344
[Reserved]
§ 4287.345
Default by Borrower.
The Lender's primary responsibilities in Default are to act reasonably and expeditiously, to work with the Borrower to bring the account current or cure the Default through restructuring if a realistic plan can be developed, or to accelerate the account and conduct a liquidation in a manner that will minimize any potential loss. The Lender may initiate liquidation in accordance with § 4287.357.
(a) The Lender must notify the Agency in writing when a Borrower is more than 30 days past due on a payment and the Delinquency cannot be cured within 30 days or when a Borrower is otherwise in Default of covenants in the Loan Agreement by submitting Form RD 1980-44, “Guaranteed Loan Borrower Default Status,” or processing the Default Status report in LINC. The Lender must provide this notification to the Agency within 15 calendar days of when a Borrower is 30 days past due on a payment or is otherwise in Default of the Loan Agreement. The Lender must update the loan's status each month using either Form RD 1980-44 or the LINC Default Status report until such time as the loan is no longer in Default. If a monetary Default exceeds 60 days, the Lender must meet with the Agency and, if practical, the Borrower to discuss the situation.
(b) In considering options, the prospects for providing a permanent cure without adversely affecting the risk to the Agency and the Lender are the paramount objective.
(1) Curative actions (subject to the rights of any Holder) include, but are not limited to:
(i) Deferment of principal or Interest payments;
(ii) An additional unguaranteed temporary loan by the Lender to bring the account current;
(iii) Reamortization of or rescheduling the payments on the loan (subject to the rights of any Holder) excluding capitalization of accrued Interest;
(iv) Transfer and Assumption of the loan in accordance with § 4287.334;
(v) Reorganization;
(vi) Liquidation; and
(vii) Changes in Interest rates with the Agency's, the Lender's, and Holder's approval. Any Interest rate changes must be adjusted proportionately between the guaranteed and unguaranteed portion of the loan.
(2) The term of any deferment, rescheduling, reamortization, or moratorium will be limited to the lesser of the remaining life of the Collateral or remaining limits as set forth in § 4279.234 of this chapter (excluding paragraph (d)). Balloon payments are permitted as a loan servicing option as long as there is a reasonable prospect for success and the remaining life of the Collateral supports the action.
(3) In the event of a loss or a repurchase, the Lender cannot claim Default or penalty Interest, late payment fees, or Interest on Interest.
(c) Debt write-downs by the lender are prohibited when the Lender will continue with the Project loan, except as directed or ordered by a final court order.
(d) In the event of a loss, the guarantee will not cover Interest to the Lender accruing after the Interest Termination Date.
(e) For repurchases of guaranteed loans, refer to § 4279.225 of this chapter.
§§ 4287.346-4287.355
[Reserved]
§ 4287.356
Protective Advances.
Protective Advances are advances made by the Lender for the purpose of preserving and protecting the Collateral where the Borrower has failed to, will not, or cannot meet its obligations. Lenders must exercise sound judgment in determining that the Protective Advance preserves Collateral and recovery is actually enhanced by making the advance. Lenders cannot make Protective Advances in lieu of additional loans. A Protective Advance claim will be paid only at the time of the final payment as indicated in the Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss.
(a) The maximum loss to be paid by the Agency will never exceed the original loan amount plus accrued Interest times the percentage of guarantee regardless of any Protective Advances made.
(b) In the event of a final loss, Protective Advances will accrue Interest at the Promissory Note rate and will be guaranteed at the same percentage of loss as provided in the Loan Note Guarantee. The guarantee will not cover Interest on the Protective Advance accruing after the Interest Termination Date.
(c) Protective Advances must constitute an indebtedness of the Borrower to the Lender and be secured by the security instruments. Agency written authorization is required when the cumulative total of Protective Advances exceeds $200,000 or 10 percent of the outstanding balance of principal, whichever is less.
§ 4287.357
Liquidation.
In the event of one or more incidents of Default or third party actions that the Borrower cannot or will not cure or eliminate within a reasonable period of time, the Lender, with Agency consent, must provide for liquidation.
(a)
Decision to liquidate.
A decision to liquidate or proceed otherwise must be made when the Lender determines that the Default cannot be cured through actions such as those contained in § 4287.345, or it has been determined that it is in the best interest of the Agency and the Lender to liquidate. The decision to liquidate or proceed otherwise with the Borrower must be made as soon as possible when one or more of the following exist:
(1) A loan is 90 days behind on any scheduled payment and the Lender and the Borrower have not been able to cure the Delinquency through actions such as those contained in § 4287.345.
(2) It is determined that delaying liquidation will jeopardize full recovery on the loan.
(3) The Borrower or Lender is uncooperative in resolving the problem or the Agency or Lender has reason to believe the Borrower is not acting in good faith, and immediate liquidation would minimize loss to the Agency.
(b)
Repurchase of loan.
When the decision to liquidate is made, if any portion of the loan has been sold or assigned under § 4279.223 of this chapter and not already repurchased, provisions will be made for repurchase in accordance with § 4279.225 of this chapter.
(c)
Lender's liquidation plan.
The Lender is responsible for initiating actions immediately and as necessary to ensure a prompt, orderly liquidation that will provide maximum recovery. Within 30 days after a decision to liquidate, the Lender must submit a written, proposed plan of liquidation to the Agency for approval. The liquidation plan must be detailed and include at least the following:
(1) Such proof as the Agency requires to establish the Lender's ownership of the guaranteed loan Promissory Note and related security instruments and a copy of the payment ledger, if available, that reflects the current loan balance, accrued Interest to date, and the method of computing the Interest;
(2) A full and complete list of all Collateral, including any personal and corporate guarantees;
(3) The recommended liquidation methods for making the maximum collection possible on the indebtedness and the justification for such methods, including recommended action for acquiring and disposing of all Collateral and collecting from guarantors;
(4) Necessary steps for preservation of the Collateral;
(5) Copies of the Borrower's most recently available financial statements;
(6) Copies of each guarantor's most recently available financial statements;
(7) An itemized list of estimated Liquidation Expenses expected to be incurred along with justification for each expense;
(8) A schedule to periodically report to the Agency on the progress of liquidation;
(9) Estimated Protective Advance amounts with justification;
(10) Proposed protective bid amounts on Collateral to be sold at auction and a breakdown to show how the amounts were determined. A protective bid may be made by the Lender, with prior Agency written approval, at a foreclosure sale to protect the Lender's and the Agency's interest. The protective bid will be based on the liquidation value and estimated net recovery considering prior liens and outstanding taxes, expenses of foreclosure, and estimated expenses for holding and reselling the property. These expenses include, but are not limited to, expenses for resale, Interest accrual, length of time necessary for resale, maintenance, guard service, weatherization, and prior liens;
(11) If a voluntary conveyance is considered, the proposed amount to be credited to the guaranteed debt;
(12) Legal opinions, if needed by the Lender's legal counsel; and
(13) An estimate of Fair Market Value and potential liquidation value of the Collateral. If the value of the Collateral is $250,000 or more, the Lender must obtain an independent appraisal report meeting the requirements of § 4279.244 of this chapter on the Collateral securing the loan, which reflects the Fair Market Value and potential liquidation value. The liquidation appraisal must evaluate the impact on Market Value of any release of hazardous substances, petroleum products, or other environmental hazards. The independent appraiser's fee, including the cost of the environmental site assessment, will be shared equally by the Agency and the Lender. In order to ensure prompt action, the liquidation plan can be submitted with an estimate of Collateral value, and the liquidation plan may be approved by the Agency subject to the results of the final liquidation appraisal.
(d)
Approval of liquidation plan.
The Lender cannot implement its liquidation plan before obtaining written approval from the Agency. The Lender and Agency must attempt to resolve any Agency concerns.
(1) If the liquidation plan is approved by the Agency, the Lender must proceed expeditiously with liquidation and
must take all legal action necessary to liquidate the loan in accordance with the approved liquidation plan. The Lender must update or modify the liquidation plan when conditions warrant, including a change in value based on a liquidation appraisal.
(2) Should the Agency and the Lender not agree on the liquidation plan, negotiations will take place between the Agency and the Lender to resolve the disagreement. The Lender must take such actions that a reasonable Lender would take without a guarantee and keep the Agency informed in writing. When the liquidation plan is approved by the Agency, the Lender will proceed expeditiously with liquidation.
(e)
Acceleration.
The Lender will proceed to accelerate the indebtedness as expeditiously as possible when acceleration is necessary, including giving any notices and taking any other legal actions required. The guaranteed loan will be considered in liquidation once the loan has been accelerated and a demand for payment has been made upon the Borrower. The Lender must obtain from the Agency concurrence prior to the acceleration of the loan if the sole basis for acceleration is a nonmonetary Default. In the case of monetary Default, prior approval by the Agency of the Lender's acceleration is not required, although Agency concurrence must still be given not later than at the time the liquidation plan is approved. The Lender will provide a copy of the acceleration notice or other acceleration document to the Agency.
(f)
Filing an estimated loss claim.
When the Lender owns any of the guaranteed portion of the loan, the Lender must file an estimated loss claim once a decision has been made to liquidate if the liquidation is expected to exceed 90 days. When calculating the estimated loss payment, the value of the Collateral must be based on its estimated net liquidation value. For the purpose of reporting and loss claim computation, the guarantee will not cover Interest to the Lender accruing after the Interest Termination Date. The Agency will promptly process the loss claim in accordance with applicable Agency regulations as set forth in § 4287.358.
(g)
Accounting and reports.
The Lender must account for funds during the period of liquidation and must, in accordance with the Agency-approved liquidation plan, provide the Agency with reports on the progress of liquidation including disposition of Collateral, resulting costs, and additional procedures necessary for successful completion of the liquidation.
(h)
Transmitting payments and proceeds to the Agency.
When the Agency is the Holder of a portion of the guaranteed loan, the Lender must transmit to the Agency within 14 calendar days its Pro Rata share of any payments received from the Borrower, liquidation, or other proceeds using Form RD 1980-43, “Lender's Guaranteed Loan Payment to Rural Development.”
(i)
Abandonment of collateral.
When the Lender adequately documents that the cost of liquidation would exceed the potential recovery value of certain Collateral and receives Agency concurrence, the Lender may abandon that Collateral. When the Lender makes a recommendation for abandonment of Collateral, it will be considered a servicing action under 7 CFR 1970.8(e), and will not require separate NEPA review.
(j)
Disposition of personal or corporate guarantees.
The Lender must take action to maximize recovery from all personal and corporate guarantees, including seeking Deficiency Judgments when there is a reasonable chance of future collection.
(k)
Compromise settlement.
Compromise settlements must be approved by the Lender and the Agency. Complete current financial information on all parties obligated for the loan must be provided. At a minimum, the compromise settlement must be equivalent to the value and timeliness of that which would be received from attempting to collect on the guarantee. The guarantor cannot be released from liability until the full amount of the compromise settlement has been received. In weighing whether the compromise settlement should be accepted, among other things, the Agency will weigh whether the compromise is more financially advantageous than collecting on the guarantee.
(l)
Litigation.
In all litigation proceedings involving the Borrower, the Lender is responsible for protecting the rights of the Lender with respect to the
loan and keeping the Agency adequately and regularly informed, in writing, of all aspects of the proceedings. If the Agency determines that the Lender is not adequately protecting the rights of the Lender or the Agency with respect to the loan, the Agency reserves the right to take any legal action the Agency determines necessary to protect the rights of the Lender, on behalf of the Lender, or the Agency with respect to the loan. If the Agency exercises this right, the Lender must cooperate with the Agency. Any cost to the Agency associated with such action will be assessed against the Lender.
[80 FR 36447, June 24, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 11053, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 4287.358
Determination of loss and payment.
Unless the Agency anticipates a Future Recovery, the Agency will make a final settlement with the Lender after the Collateral is liquidated and settlement and compromise of all parties has been completed. The Agency has the right to recover losses paid under the guarantee from any party that may be liable.
(a)
Report of loss form.
Form RD 449-30, “Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss,” will be used for reporting and calculating all estimated and final loss determinations.
(b)
Estimated loss.
In accordance with the requirements of § 4287.357(f), the Lender must prepare an estimated loss claim and submit it to the Agency.
(1) Interest accrual eligible for payment under the guarantee on the Defaulted loan will be discontinued when the estimated loss is paid.
(2) A Protective Advance claim will be paid only at the time of the final payment as indicated in the Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss.
(3) The estimated loss payment is a payment to the Lender and is not to be applied as a payment on the loan for purposes of reducing the unpaid balance owed by the Borrower or for status reporting (semi-annual status/Default status reports).
(c)
Final loss.
Except for certain unsecured personal or corporate guarantees as provided for in this section, the Lender must prepare a final Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss and submit it to the Agency within 30 days after liquidation of all Collateral is completed. Interest will not be paid beyond the Interest Termination Date. Before approval by the Agency of any final loss report, the Lender must account for all funds during the period of liquidation, disposition of the Collateral, all costs incurred, and any other information necessary for the successful completion of liquidation. Upon receipt of the final accounting and Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss, the Agency may audit all applicable documentation to determine the final loss. The Lender must make its records available and otherwise assist the Agency in making any investigation. The documentation accompanying the Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss must support the amounts reported as losses on the Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss.
(1) The Lender must make a determination regarding the collectability of unsecured personal and corporate guarantees. If reasonably possible, the Lender must promptly collect or otherwise dispose of such guarantees in accordance with § 4287.357(j) prior to completion of the final loss report. However, in the event that collection from the guarantors appears unlikely or will require a prolonged period of time, the Lender must file the Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss when all other Collateral has been liquidated. Unsecured personal or corporate guarantees outstanding at the time of the submission of the final loss claim will be treated as a Future Recovery with the net proceeds to be shared on a Pro Rata basis by the Lender and the Agency. The Agency may consider a compromise settlement of Federal Debt after it has processed a final Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss and issued a 60 day due process letter. Any funds collected on Federal Debt will not be shared with the Lender.
(2) The Lender must document that all of the Collateral has been accounted for and properly liquidated and liquidation proceeds have been accounted for and applied correctly to the loan.
(3) The Lender must provide receipts and a breakdown of any Protective Advance amount as to the payee, purpose
of the expenditure, date paid, and evidence that the amount expended was proper.
(4) The Lender must provide receipts and a breakdown of Liquidation Expenses as to the payee, purpose of the expenditure, date paid, and evidence that the amount expended was proper. Liquidation Expenses are recoverable only from liquidation proceeds. The Agency may approve attorney/legal fees as Liquidation Expenses provided that the fees are reasonable, require the assistance of attorneys, and cover legal issues pertaining to the liquidation that could not be properly handled by the Lender and its employees.
(5) The Lender must support accrued Interest by documenting how the amount was accrued. If the Interest rate was a variable rate, the Lender must include documentation of changes in both the selected base rate and the loan rate.
(6) The Agency will pay loss payments within 60 days after it has reviewed the complete final loss report and accounting of the Collateral.
(7) If a Lender receives a final loss payment and the Agency determines there is Future Recovery, the Lender must submit to the Agency an annual report on its collection activities for each unsatisfied account for 3 years following payment of the final loss claim.
(d)
Loss limit.
The amount payable by the Agency to the Lender cannot exceed the limits set forth in the Loan Note Guarantee.
(e)
Liquidation Expenses.
The Agency will deduct Liquidation Expenses from the liquidation proceeds of the Collateral. The Lender cannot claim any Liquidation Expenses in excess of liquidation proceeds. Any changes to the Liquidation Expenses that exceed 10 percent of the amount proposed in the liquidation plan must be approved by the Agency. Reasonable attorney/legal expenses will be shared by the Lender and Agency equally, including those instances where the Lender has incurred such expenses from a trustee conducting the liquidation of assets. The Lender cannot claim the guarantee fee or the Annual Renewal Fee as authorized Liquidation Expenses, and no In-House Expenses of the Lender will be allowed. In-House Expenses include, but are not limited to, employee's salaries, staff lawyers, travel, and overhead.
(f)
Rent.
The Lender must apply any net rental or other income that it receives from the Collateral to the guaranteed loan debt.
(g)
Payment.
Once the Agency approves the Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss and supporting documents submitted by the Lender:
(1) If the loss is greater than any estimated loss payment, the Agency will pay the additional amount owed by the Agency to the Lender.
(2) If the loss is less than the estimated loss payment, the Lender must reimburse the Agency for the overpayment plus Interest at the Promissory Note rate from the date of payment.
§§ 4287.359-4287.368
[Reserved]
§ 4287.369
Future recovery.
Unless notified otherwise by the Agency, after the final loss claim has been paid, the Lender must use reasonable efforts to attempt collection from any party still liable for Future Recovery. Any net proceeds from Future Recovery must be split Pro Rata between the Lender and the Agency based on the original amount of the loan guarantee. Any collection of Federal Debt made by the Federal Government from any liable party to the guaranteed loan will not be split with the Lender.
§ 4287.370
Bankruptcy.
(a)
Lender's responsibilities.
It is the Lender's responsibility to protect the guaranteed loan and all of the Collateral securing it in bankruptcy and any related appellate proceedings. These responsibilities include, but are not limited to the following:
(1) Monitoring confirmed bankruptcy plans to determine Borrower compliance, and, if the Borrower fails to comply, pursue appropriate relief;
(2) Filing all the necessary papers and pleadings concerning the case, including where appropriate a proof of claim;
(3) Attending and, where necessary, participating in meetings of the creditors and all court proceedings;
(4) Requesting modifications of any proposed bankruptcy plan whenever it appears that the Lender could obtain additional recoveries via plan modification;
(5) Keeping the Agency adequately and regularly informed in writing of all aspects of the proceedings;
(6) Submitting a Default status report within 15 days after the date when the Borrower Defaults and every 30 days thereafter until the Default is resolved or a final loss claim is paid by the Agency. The Default status report will be used to inform the Agency of the bankruptcy filing, the plan confirmation date, when the plan is complete, and when the Borrower is not in compliance with the plan; and
(7) With written Agency consent, the Lender and Agency will equally share the cost of any independent appraisal fee to protect the guaranteed loan in any bankruptcy proceedings.
(b)
Reports of loss during bankruptcy.
In bankruptcy proceedings, payment of loss claims will be made as provided in this section.
(1)
Estimated loss payments.
(i) If a Borrower has filed for bankruptcy and all or a portion of the debt has been discharged, the Lender must request an estimated loss payment of the guaranteed portion of the accrued Interest and principal discharged by the court. Only one estimated loss payment is allowed during the bankruptcy and any related appellate proceedings. All subsequent claims of the Lender during bankruptcy and any related appellate proceedings will be considered revisions to the initial estimated loss. A revised estimated loss payment may be processed by the Agency, at its option, in accordance with any court-approved changes in the bankruptcy plan. Once the bankruptcy plan has been completed, the Lender is responsible for submitting the documentation necessary for the Agency to review and adjust the estimated loss claim to reflect any actual discharge of principal and Interest and to reimburse the Lender for any court-ordered Interest rate reduction under the terms of the bankruptcy plan.
(ii) The Lender must use the Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss to request an estimated loss payment and to revise any estimated loss payments during the course of the bankruptcy plan. The estimated loss claim, as well as any revisions to this claim, must be accompanied by documentation to support the claim.
(iii) Upon completion of a bankruptcy plan, the Lender must:
(A) Complete a Form RD 1980-44 and forward this form to the Agency; and
(B) Provide the Agency with the documentation necessary to determine whether the estimated loss paid equals the actual loss sustained.
(
1
) If the actual loss sustained as a result of the bankruptcy is less than the estimated loss, the Lender must reimburse the Agency for the overpayment plus Interest at the Promissory Note rate from the date of payment of the estimated loss.
(
2
) If the actual loss is greater than the estimated loss payment, the Lender must submit a revised estimated loss claim in order to obtain payment of the additional amount owed by the Agency to the Lender.
(2)
Bankruptcy loss payments.
(i) The Lender must request a bankruptcy loss payment of the guaranteed portion of the accrued Interest and principal discharged by the court for all bankruptcies when all or a portion of the debt has been discharged. Unless a final court decree approves a subsequent change to the bankruptcy plan that is adverse to the Lender, only one bankruptcy loss payment is allowed during the bankruptcy. Once a final court decree has discharged all or part of the guaranteed loan and any appeal period has run, the Lender must submit the documentation necessary for the Agency to review and adjust the bankruptcy loss claim to reflect any actual discharge of principal and Interest.
(ii) The Lender must use the Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss to request a bankruptcy loss payment and to revise any bankruptcy loss payments during the course of the bankruptcy. The Lender must include with the bankruptcy loss claim documentation to support the claim, as well as any revisions to this claim.
(iii) Upon completion of a bankruptcy plan, restructuring, or liquidation, the Lender must either complete a Form RD 1980-44 and forward this
form to the Agency or enter the data directly into LINC.
(iv) If an estimated loss claim is paid during a bankruptcy and the Borrower repays in full the remaining balance without an additional loss sustained by the Lender, a final Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss is not necessary.
(3)
Interest rate losses as a result of bankruptcy reorganization.
Interest rate losses as a result of bankruptcy reorganization will be paid as follows:
(i) Interest losses sustained during the period of the bankruptcy plan will be processed in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(ii) Interest losses sustained after the bankruptcy plan is confirmed will be processed annually when the Lender sustains a loss as a result of a permanent Interest rate reduction that extends beyond the period of the bankruptcy plan; and
(iii) If a bankruptcy loss claim is paid during the operation of the bankruptcy plan and the Borrower repays in full the remaining balance without an additional loss sustained by the Lender, a final Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss is not necessary.
(4)
Final bankruptcy loss payments.
The Agency will process final bankruptcy loss payments when the loan is fully liquidated.
(5)
Application of loss claim payments.
The Lender must apply estimated loss payments first to the unsecured principal of the guaranteed portion of the debt and then to the unsecured interest of the guaranteed portion of the debt. In the event a court attempts to direct the payments to be applied in a different manner, the Lender must immediately notify the Agency in writing.
(6)
Protective Advances.
If approved Protective Advances, as authorized by § 4287.356, were incurred in connection with the initiation of liquidation action and were required to provide repairs, insurance, etc., to protect the Collateral as result of delays in the case of failure of the Borrower to maintain the security prior to the Borrower having filed bankruptcy, the Protective Advances together with accrued Interest are payable under the guarantee in the final loss claim.
(c)
Expenses during bankruptcy proceedings.
(1) Under no circumstances will the guarantee cover Liquidation Expenses in excess of liquidation proceeds.
(2) Expenses, such as reasonable attorney/legal fees and the cost of appraisals incurred by the Lender as a direct result of the Borrower's bankruptcy filing, will be shared equally by the Lender and the Agency.
(3) Reasonable and customary Liquidation Expenses must be deducted from Collateral sale proceeds. Liquidation Expenses are covered under the guarantee, provided they are reasonable, customary, and provide a demonstrated economic benefit to the Lender and the Agency. Lender's In-House Expenses, which are those expenses that would normally be incurred for administration of the loan, including in-house lawyers, are not covered by the guarantee.
(4) When a bankruptcy proceeding results in a liquidation of the Borrower by a bankruptcy trustee appointed under 11 U.S.C. 701, 702, 703 or 1104, expenses will be handled as directed by the court, and the Lender cannot claim Liquidation Expenses for the sale of the assets.
(5) If the property is abandoned by the bankruptcy trustee, the Lender will conduct the liquidation in accordance with § 4287.357.
(6) Proceeds received from partial sale of Collateral during bankruptcy may be used by the Lender to pay reasonable costs, such as freight, labor and sales commissions, associated with the partial sale. Reasonable use of proceeds for this purpose must be documented with the final loss claim.
§§ 4287.371-4287.379
[Reserved]
§ 4287.380
Termination of guarantee.
The Loan Note Guarantee will terminate under any of the following conditions:
(a) Upon full payment of the guaranteed loan;
(b) Upon full payment of any loss obligation; or
(c) Upon written notice from the Lender to the Agency that the guarantee will terminate 30 days after the date of notice, provided that the Lender owns the entire guaranteed interest
in the loan and the Loan Note Guarantee is returned to the Agency to be canceled.
§§ 4287.381-4287.399
[Reserved]
§ 4287.400
OMB control number.
In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, the information collection requirements contained in the subsequent interim rule have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under OMB Control Number 0570-0065 for approval. A person is not required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
Pt. 4288

# PART 4288—PAYMENT PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—Repowering Assistance Payments to Eligible Biorefineries
Sec.
4288.1
Purpose and scope.
4288.2
Definitions.
4288.3
Review or appeal rights.
4288.4
Compliance with other laws and regulations.
4288.5
Oversight, monitoring, and reporting requirements.
4288.6
Forms, regulations, and instructions.
4288.7
Exception authority.
4288.8-4288.9
[Reserved]
4288.10
Applicant eligibility.
4288.11
Eligible project costs.
4288.12
Ineligible project costs.
4288.13
Payment information.
4288.14-4288.19
[Reserved]
4288.20
Submittal of applications.
4288.21
Application review and scoring.
4288.22
Ranking of applications.
4288.23
Notifications.
4288.24
Program payment provisions.
4288.25
Succession and control of facilities and production.
4288.26
Fiscal Year 2009 and Fiscal Year 2010 applications.
4288.27-4288.100
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Advanced Biofuel Payment Program

# General Provisions
4288.101
Purpose and scope.
4288.102
Definitions.
4288.103
Review or appeal rights.
4288.104
Compliance with other laws and regulations.
4288.105
Oversight and monitoring.
4288.106
Forms, regulations, and instructions.
4288.107
Exception authority.
4288.108-4288.109
[Reserved]

# Eligibility Provisions
4288.110
Applicant eligibility.
4288.111
Biofuel eligibility.
4288.112
Eligibility notifications.
4288.113
Payment record requirements.
4288.114-4288.119
[Reserved]

# Enrollment Provisions
4288.120
Enrollment.
4288.121
Contract.
4288.122-4288.129
[Reserved]

# Payment Provisions
4288.130
Payment applications.
4288.131
Payment provisions.
4288.132
Payment adjustments.
4288.133
Payment liability.
4288.134
Refunds and interest payments.
4288.135
Unauthorized payments and offsets.
4288.136
Remedies.
4288.137
Succession and loss of control of advanced biofuel facilities and production.
4288.138-4288.200
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1989.

# Source:
76 FR 7926, Feb. 11, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Repowering Assistance Payments to Eligible Biorefineries
§ 4288.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this program is to provide financial incentives to biorefineries in existence on June 18, 2008, the date of the enactment of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (the 2008 Farm Bill) (Pub. L. 110-246), to replace the use of fossil fuels used to produce heat or power at their facilities by installing new systems that use renewable biomass, or to produce new energy from renewable biomass.
(b)
Scope.
The Agency may make payments under this program to any biorefinery that meets the requirements of the program up to the limits established for the program. Based on our research and survey of medium-sized project costs, the Agency has determined that the dollar amount identified will provide adequate incentive for biorefineries to apply.
(1) The Agency will determine the amount of payments to be made to a biorefinery taking into consideration the percentage reduction in fossil fuel
used by the biorefinery (including the quantity of fossil fuels a renewable biomass system is replacing), and the cost and cost-effectiveness of the renewable biomass system.
(2) The Agency will determine who receives payment under this program based on the percentage reduction in fossil fuel used by the biorefinery that will result from the installation of the renewable biomass system; the cost and cost-effectiveness of the renewable biomass system; and other scoring criteria identified in § 4288.21. The above criteria will be used to determine priority for awards of 50 percent of total eligible project costs, up to the maximum award applicable for the fiscal year.
§ 4288.2
Definitions.
The definitions set forth in this section are applicable for all purposes of program administration under this subpart.
Agency.
The USDA Rural Development, Rural Business-Cooperative Service or its successor organization.
Application period.
The time period announced by the Agency during which the Agency will accept applications.
Base energy use.
The amount of documented fossil fuel energy use over an extended operating period.
(1) The extended operating period must be at least 24 months of recorded usage, and requires metered utility records for electric energy, natural gas consumption, fuel oil, coal shipments and propane use, as applicable for providing heat or power for the operation of the biorefinery.
(2) Utility billing, oil and coal shipments must be actual bills, with meter readings, applicable rates and tariffs, costs and usage. Billing must be complete, without gaps and arranged in chronological order. Drop shipments of coal or oil can be substituted for metered readings, provided the biorefinery documents the usage and its relationship to providing heat or power to the biorefinery.
(3) A biorefinery in existence on or before June 18, 2008 with less than 24 months of actual operating data must provide at least 12 months of data supported by engineering and design calculations, and site plans, prepared by the construction engineering firm.
Biobased products.
Products determined by the Secretary to be commercial or industrial products (other than food or feed) that are:
(1) Composed, in whole or in significant part, of biological products, including renewable domestic agricultural materials and forestry materials; or
(2) Intermediate ingredients or feedstocks.
Biofuel.
Fuel derived from renewable biomass.
Biorefinery.
A facility (including equipment and processes) that converts renewable biomass into biofuels and biobased products, and may produce electricity.
Eligible biorefinery.
A biorefinery that has been in existence on or before June 18, 2008.
Energy Information Agency (EIA).
The statistical agency of the Department of Energy and source of official energy statistics from the U.S. Government.
Feasibility study.
An Agency-acceptable analysis of the economic, environmental, technical, financial, and management capabilities of a proposed project or business in terms of its expected success. A list of items that must be included in a feasibility study is presented in § 4288.20(c)(9) of this subpart.
Financial interest.
Any ownership, creditor, or management interest in the biorefinery.
Fiscal year.
A 12-month period beginning each October 1 and ending September 30 of the following calendar year.
Fossil fuel.
Coal, oil, propane, and natural gas.
Renewable biomass.
(1) Materials, pre-commercial thinnings, or invasive species from National Forest System land or public lands (as defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702)) that:
(i) Are byproducts of preventive treatments that are removed to reduce hazardous fuels; to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation; or to restore ecosystem health; and
(ii) Would not otherwise be used for higher value products; and
(iii) Are harvested in accordance with applicable law and land management plans and the requirements for old growth maintenance, restoration, and management direction as per paragraphs (e)(2), (e)(3), and (e)(4), and large tree retention as per paragraph (f), of section 102 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6512); or
(2) Any organic matter that is available on a renewable or recurring basis from non-Federal land or land belonging to an Indian or Indian Tribe that is held in trust by the United States or subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States, including:
(i) Renewable plant material, including feed grains; other agricultural commodities; other plants and trees; and algae; and
(ii) Waste material, including crop residue; other vegetative waste material (including wood waste and wood residues); animal waste and byproducts (including fats, oils, greases, and manure); and food waste and yard waste.
Rural or rural area.
Any area of a State not in a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants according to the most recent decennial Census of the United States, not in the urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I), as well as any area that has been determined to be “rural in character” by the Under Secretary for Rural Development, or as otherwise identified in this definition.
(1) An area that is attached to the urbanized area of a city or town with more than 50,000 inhabitants by a contiguous area of urbanized census blocks that is not more than 2 census blocks wide. Applicants from such an area should work with their Rural Development State Office to request a determination of whether their project is located in a rural area under this provision.
(2) For the purposes of this definition, cities and towns are incorporated population centers with definite boundaries, local self government, and legal powers set forth in a charter granted by the State.
(3) For the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the island is considered rural and eligible for Business Programs assistance, except for the San Juan Census Designated Place (CDP) and any other CDP with greater than 50,000 inhabitants. CDPs with greater than 50,000 inhabitants, other than the San Juan CDP, may be determined to be eligible if they are “not urban in character.”
(4) For the State of Hawaii, all areas within the State are considered rural and eligible for Business Programs assistance, except for the Honolulu CDP within the County of Honolulu.
(5) For the purpose of defining a rural area in the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Agency shall determine what constitutes rural and rural area based on available population data.
(6) The determination that an area is “rural in character” will be made by the Under Secretary of Rural Development. The process to request a determination under this provision is outlined in paragraph (6)(ii) of this definition.
(i) The determination that an area is “rural in character” under this definition will apply to areas that are within:
(A) An urbanized area that has two points on its boundary that are at least 40 miles apart, which is not contiguous or adjacent to a city or town that has a population of greater than 150,000 inhabitants or the urbanized area of such a city or town; or
(B) An urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town of greater than 50,000 inhabitants that is within one-quarter mile of a rural area.
(ii) Units of local government may petition the Under Secretary of Rural Development for a “rural in character” designation by submitting a petition to both the appropriate Rural Development State Director and the Administrator on behalf of the Under Secretary. The petition shall document how the area meets the requirements of paragraph (6)(i)(A) or (6)(i)(B) of this definition and discuss why the petitioner believes the area is “rural in character,” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, and topography and how
the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receiving a petition, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable Governor or leader in a similar position and request comments to be submitted within 5 business days, unless such comments were submitted with the petition. The Under Secretary will release to the public a notice of a petition filed by a unit of local government not later than 30 days after receipt of the petition by way of publication in a local newspaper and posting on the Agency's Web site, and the Under Secretary will make a determination not less than 15 days, but no more than 60 days, after the release of the notice. Upon a negative determination, the Under Secretary will provide to the petitioner an opportunity to appeal a determination to the Under Secretary, and the petitioner will have 10 business days to appeal the determination and provide further information for consideration.
[76 FR 7926, Feb. 11, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 9913, Feb. 24, 2015; 87 FR 38645, June 29, 2022]
§ 4288.3
Review or appeal rights.
A person may seek a review of an Agency decision or appeal to the National Appeals Division in accordance with 7 CFR part 11 of this title.
§ 4288.4
Compliance with other laws and regulations.
Participating biorefineries must comply with other applicable Federal, State, and local laws, including, but not limited to, the Equal Employment Opportunities Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 7 CFR Part 1901, subpart E, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and the Age Discrimination Act of 1975. Applicants must submit and will be subject to pre-award and post award compliance reviews with the terms and conditions set forth in Form RD 400-1, “Equal Opportunity Agreement” and Form RD 400-4, “Assurance Agreement.”
§ 4288.5
Oversight, monitoring, and reporting requirements.
(a)
Verification.
The Agency reserves the right to verify all payment requests and subsequent payments made under this program, including field visits, as frequently as necessary to ensure the integrity of the program. Documentation provided will be used to verify, reconcile, and enforce the payment terms of Form RD 4288-5, “Repowering Assistance Program—Agreement,” along with any potential refunds that the recipient will be required to make should they fail to adequately document their request.
(b)
Records.
(1) For purposes of verifying the eligible project costs supporting payments under this subpart, each biorefinery must maintain in one place such books, documents, papers, receipts, payroll records and bills of sale adequate to identify the purposes for which, and the manner in which funds were expended for eligible project costs. The biorefinery must maintain copies of all documents submitted to the Agency in connection with payments made hereunder. These records must be available at all reasonable times for examination by the Agency and must be held and be available for Agency examination for a period of not less than 3 years from the final payment date.
(2) For the purpose of verifying compliance with the fossil fuel reduction and energy production requirements of this subpart, each biorefinery must make available and provide for the metering of all power and heat producing boilers, containment vessels, generators and any other equipment related to the production of heat or power required to displace fossil fuel loads with renewable biomass. These records must be held in one place and be available at all reasonable times for examination by the Agency. Such records include all books, papers, contracts, scale tickets, settlement sheets, invoices, and any other documents related to the program that are within the control of the biorefinery. These records must be held and made available for Agency examination for a period of not less than 3 years from the date the repowering project becomes operational.
(c)
Reporting.
Upon completion of the repowering project, the biorefinery must submit a report using Form RD 4288-6, “Repowering Assistance Programs—Reporting Form,” to the Agency annually for the first 3 years after
completion of the project. The reports are to be submitted as of October 1 of each year. The report must include the items specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.
(1) Documentation regarding the usage and production of energy at the biorefinery during the previous year, including both the previous and current fossil fuel load and the renewable biomass energy production.
(i) Metered data documenting the production of heat, steam, gas and power must be obtained utilizing an Agency approved measurement device.
(ii) Metered data must be verifiable and subject to independent calibration testing.
(2) Current utility billing data, indentifying metered loads, from the base energy use period.
§ 4288.6
Forms, regulations, and instructions.
Copies of all forms, regulations, instructions, and other materials related to this program may be obtained from the USDA Rural Development State Office, Renewable Energy Coordinator and the USDA Rural Development Web site at
http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/regs/.
§ 4288.7
Exception authority.
The Administrator of the Agency (“Administrator”) may, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Agriculture, make an exception, on a case-by-case basis, to any requirement or provision of this subpart that is not inconsistent with any authorizing statute or applicable law, if the Administrator determines that application of the requirement or provision would adversely affect the Federal government's interest.
§§ 4288.8-4288.9
[Reserved]
§ 4288.10
Applicant eligibility.
(a)
Eligible projects.
To be eligible for this program, the applicant must be an eligible biorefinery utilizing only renewable biomass for replacement fuel, and must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section.
(1)
Timely complete application submission.
To be eligible for this program, the applicant must submit a complete application within the application period. Projects will be selected based on ranking which is derived from the application of the selection criteria stated in § 4288.21.
(2)
Multiple biorefineries.
Corporations and entities with more than one biorefinery can submit an application for only one of their biorefineries. However, if a corporation or entity has multiple biorefineries located at the same location, the entity may submit an application that covers such biorefineries provided the heat and power used in the multiple biorefineries are centrally produced.
(3)
Cost-effectiveness.
The application must be awarded at least minimum points for cost-effectiveness under § 4288.21(b)(1).
(4)
Percentage of reduction of fossil fuel use.
The application must be awarded at least minimum points for percentage of reduction of fossil fuel use under § 4288.21(b)(2).
(5)
Full project financing.
The applicant must demonstrate that it has sufficient funds or has obtained commitments for sufficient funds to complete the repowering project taking into account the amount of the payment request in the application.
(b)
Ineligible projects.
A project is not eligible under this subpart if it is using feedstocks for repowering that are feed grain commodities that received benefits under Title I of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008.
§ 4288.11
Eligible project costs.
Eligible project costs will be only for project related construction costs for repowering improvements associated with the equipment, installation, engineering, design, site plans, associated professional fees, permits and financing fees.
§ 4288.12
Ineligible project costs.
Any project costs incurred by the applicant prior to application for payment assistance under this program will be ineligible for payment assistance.
§ 4288.13
Payment information.
(a)
Maximum payment.
For purposes of this program, the maximum payment
an applicant may receive will be 50 percent of total eligible project costs up to the applicable fiscal year's maximum award as announced in an annual
Federal Register
notice. There is no minimum payment to an applicant.
(b)
Reimbursement payments.
The Agency shall only make payments based on the biorefinery's expenditures on eligible project costs. Payments shall be determined by multiplying the amount of eligible expenditures stated on the payment request by a percentage obtained by dividing the aggregate payment award by total eligible project costs.
(c)
Timing of payments.
The Applicant may request payments not more frequently than once a month by submitting an original, completed, validly signed Standard Form (SF) 271, “Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs” including the supporting documentation identified in § 4288.23, to reimburse the applicant for the Agency's pro rata share of funds expended on eligible project costs. The Agency shall make such payments until 90 percent of the total payment award has been expended. The final 10 percent of the payment award will be paid upon completion of the repowering project and satisfactory evidence has been received by the Agency demonstrating that the biorefinery is operating as described in the Agency approved application.
§§ 4288.14-4288.19
[Reserved]
§ 4288.20
Submittal of applications.
(a)
Address to make application.
Application must be submitted to USDA, Rural Development-Energy Division, Program Branch, Attention: Repowering Assistance Program, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Stop 3225, Washington, DC 20250-3225.
(b)
Content and form of submission.
Applicants must submit a signed original and one copy of an application containing the information specified in this section. The applicant must also furnish the Agency the required documentation identified in Form RD 4288-4, “Repowering Assistance Program Application,” to verify compliance with program provisions before acceptance into the program. Note that applicants are required to have a Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) (unless the applicant is an individual). Instructions for obtaining the UEI are available at
https://sam.gov/.
Applicants must submit to the Agency the documents specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1)
Form RD 4288-4.
Applicants must submit this form and all necessary attachments providing project information on the biorefinery; the facility at which the biorefinery operates, including location and products produced; and the types and quantities of renewable biomass feedstock being proposed to produce heat or power. This form requires the applicant to provide relevant data to allow for technical analysis of their existing facility to demonstrate replacement of fossil fuel by renewable biomass with reasonable costs and maximum efficiencies. The applicant must also submit evidence that the biorefinery was in existence on or before June 18, 2008. The applicant is required to certify the information provided.
(2) RD Instruction 1940-Q, Exhibit A-1, “Certification for Contracts, Grants and Loans.”
(3) Form RD 400-1.
(4) Form RD 400-4.
(5) Environmental documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
(6) Certifications. The applicant must furnish the Agency all required certifications before acceptance into the program, and furnish access to records required by the Agency to verify compliance with program provisions. The applicant must submit forms or other written documentation certifying to the following:
(i) AD-1047, “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters—Primary Covered Transactions” or other written documentation.
(ii) AD-1048, “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transactions” or other written documentation.
(iii) SF-LLL, “Disclosure of Lobbying Activities.”
(c)
Application package contents.
Applicants are required to provide relevant data to allow for technical analysis of their existing facilities to demonstrate replacement of fossil fuel by renewable biomass with reasonable costs and maximum efficiencies. Applicants in existence on or before June 18, 2008 with more than 24 months of actual operating data must provide data for the most recent 24-month period. Applicants in existence on or before June 18, 2008 with less than 24 months of actual operating data must provide 12 months of data supported by engineering and design calculations, and site plans, prepared by the construction engineering firm. All applicants must submit the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(9) of this section as part of their application package.
(1)
Contact data.
Contact information for the primary technical contact for the biorefinery.
(2)
Biorefinery data.
Basic information on facility operations over time (hours/day, days/year).
(3)
Electric use data.
Information on existing electric service to the facility, data on consumption, peak and average demand, and monthly/seasonal use patterns.
(4)
Fuel use data.
Information on natural gas and current fuel use for boilers and heaters, including fuel type, costs, and use patterns.
(5)
Thermal loads.
Information on existing thermal loads, including type (steam, hot water, direct heat), conditions (temperature, pressure) and use patterns.
(6)
Existing equipment.
Information on existing heating and cooling equipment, including type, capacities, efficiencies and emissions.
(7)
Site-specific data.
Information on other site-specific issues, such as expansion plans or neighborhood considerations that might impact the proposed new system design or operation; or environmental impacts.
(8)
Biofuel and biobased product production.
Information on biofuel and biobased product production, including quantity and units of production.
(9)
Feasibility study.
The applicant must submit a feasibility study by an independent qualified consultant, which has no financial interest in the biorefinery, and demonstrates that the renewable biomass system of the biorefinery is feasible, taking into account the economic, technical and environmental aspects of the system. The feasibility study must include the components specified in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (c)(9)(x) of this section.
(i) An executive summary, including resume of the consultant, and an introduction/project overview (brief general overview of project location, size,
etc.
).
(ii) An economic feasibility determination, including:
(A) Information regarding the project site;
(B) Information on the availability of trained or trainable labor; and
(C) Information on the availability of infrastructure and rail and road service to the site.
(iii) A technical feasibility determination, including a report that:
(A) Describes the repowering project, including:
(
1
) Information on heating and cooling equipment, including type, capacities, efficiencies and emissions;
(
2
) Anticipated impacts of the repowering project on the information requested above relating to electric use data, fuel use data, thermal loads and biofuel and biobased product production; and
(
3
) A project development schedule as more fully described in § 4288.21(b)(4)(iv);
(B) Is based upon verifiable data and contains sufficient information and analysis so that a determination may be made on the technical feasibility of achieving the levels of energy production that are projected in the statements. The report must provide the information in a format that is responsive to the scoring criteria specified in § 4288.21(b)(1) through (5) and applicants should identify in their report the information that corresponds to each of the scoring criteria; and
(C) Identifies and estimates project operation and development costs and specifies the level of accuracy of these estimates and the assumptions on which these estimates have been based.
(iv) A financial feasibility determination that discusses the following:
(A) Repowering project construction funding, including repayment terms and security arrangements. Attach any documents relating to the project financing;
(B) The reliability of the financial projections and assumptions on which the project is based including all sources of project capital, both private and public, such as Federal funds;
(C) Projected balance sheets and costs associated with project operations;
(D) Cash flow projections for 3 years;
(E) The adequacy of raw materials and supplies;
(F) A sensitivity analysis, including feedstock and energy costs, product/co-product prices;
(G) Risks related to the project; and
(H) The continuity, maintenance and availability of records.
(v) A management feasibility determination.
(vi) Recommendations for implementation.
(vii) The environmental concerns and issues of the system.
(viii) The availability of feedstock, including discussions of:
(A) Feedstock source management;
(B) Estimates of feedstock volumes and costs;
(C) Collection, pre-treatment, transportation, and storage; and
(D) Impacts on existing manufacturing plants or other facilities that use similar feedstock.
(ix) The feasibility/plans of project to work with producer associations or cooperatives including estimated amount of annual feedstock from those entities.
(x) If woody biomass from National forest system lands or public lands is proposed as the feedstock, documentation must be provided that it cannot be used as a higher value wood-based product.
[76 FR 7926, Feb. 11, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 11053, Mar. 2, 2016; 89 FR 34959, May 1, 2024]
§ 4288.21
Application review and scoring.
The Agency will evaluate projects based on the cost, cost-effectiveness, and capacity of projects to reduce fossil fuels. The cost of the project will be taken into consideration in the context of each project's ability to economically produce energy from renewable biomass to replace its dependence on fossil fuels. Projects with higher costs that are less efficient will not score well. The scoring criteria are designed to evaluate projects on simple payback as well as the percentage of fossil fuel reduction.
(a)
Review.
The Agency will evaluate each application and make a determination as to whether the applicant is eligible, whether the proposed project is eligible, and whether the proposed payment request complies with all applicable statutes and regulations. This evaluation will be conducted by experts in the Agency and other Federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy based on the information provided by the applicant.
(b)
Scoring.
The Agency will score each application in order to prioritize each proposed project. The maximum number of points awardable to any applicant will be 100. The evaluation criteria that the Agency will use to score these projects are specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section.
(1)
Cost-effectiveness.
Cost-effectiveness will be scored based on the anticipated simple payback period, or “simple payback.” Anticipated simple payback will be demonstrated by calculating documented base energy use costs for the 24-month period prior to submission of the application or at least 12 months of data supported by engineering and design calculations, and site plans, prepared by the construction engineering firm.
(i) The simple payback period is calculated as follows:
• Simple payback = C/S
Where:
C = eligible capital expenses of the repowering project
S = savings in annual operating costs.

# Example:
Eligible capital expenses of the repowering project, including handling equipment, biomass boiler, piping improvements and plant modifications, are equal to $5,300,500. The annual difference in fossil fuel cost versus the cost for renewable biomass is $990,500. Assume these costs and uses are based on a yearly operating cycle, which may include handling, storage and treatment
costs. In this example, C = $5,300,500; S = $990,500; simple payback = 5.35 years (C/S = simple payback).
(ii) A maximum of 20 points will be awarded as follows:
(A) If the anticipated simple payback is less than or equal to 4 years, award 20 points.
(B) If the anticipated simple payback is greater than 4 years but less than or equal to 6 years, award 10 points.
(C) If the anticipated simple payback will be greater than 6 years but less than or equal to 10 years, award 5 points.
(D) If the anticipated simple payback will be greater than 10 years, award 0 points.
(2)
Percentage of reduction of fossil fuel use.
The anticipated percent reduction in the use of fossil fuels will be measured using the same evidence provided by the applicant for measuring cost-effectiveness. However, this set of criteria will measure actual fossil fuel use for the 24-month period prior to submission of the application or for at least 12 months of data supported by engineering and design calculations, and site plans, prepared by the construction engineering firm. All fossil fuel use, for thermal loads as well as for electric use, will be evaluated by using information provided by the Energy Information Agency (EIA). The Agency will determine the percentage reduction of fossil fuel use based on and in cooperation with the applicant's submission of electric power provider contracts, power agreements, and utility billings in relation to available information from the EIA. A maximum of 35 points will be awarded as follows:
(i) Applicant demonstrates an anticipated annual reduction in fossil fuel use of 100 percent, award 35 points.
(ii) Applicant demonstrates an anticipated annual reduction in fossil fuel use of at least 80 percent but less than 100 percent, award 25 points.
(iii) Applicant demonstrates an anticipated annual reduction in fossil fuel use of at least 60 percent but less than 80 percent, award 15 points.
(iv) Applicant demonstrates an anticipated annual reduction in fossil fuel use of at least 40 percent but less than 60 percent, award 5 points.
(v) Applicant demonstrates an anticipated annual reduction in fossil fuel use of less than 40 percent, award 0 points.
(vi) If any of the fossil fuel being replaced is natural gas, deduct 5 points.
(3)
Renewable biomass factors.
If an applicant demonstrates at the time of application that it has on site available access to renewable biomass or enforceable third party commitments to supply renewable biomass for the repowering project for at least 3 years, 5 points will be awarded. If an applicant cannot demonstrate this, no points will be awarded.
(4)
Technical review factors.
Technical reviews will be conducted by a team of experts, including rural energy coordinators and State engineers. The Agency may engage the services of other government agencies or other recognized industry experts in the applicable technology field, at its discretion, to evaluate and rate the application. Each section of the technical review will be scored within a range of possible points available within that section. A maximum of 25 points will be awarded as follows:
(i)
Qualifications of the applicant's project team.
The applicant must describe the qualifications of those individuals who will be essential to successful performance of the proposed project. This will include information regarding professional credentials, relevant experience, and education, and must be supported with documentation of service capabilities, professional credentials, licenses, certifications, and resumes, as applicable. Award 0-5 points.
(ii)
Agreements and permits.
The applicant must describe the agreements and permits necessary for project implementation. An Agency-acceptable schedule for securing the required documents and permits must be provided. Award 0-4 points.
(iii)
Design and engineering.
The applicant must describe the design, engineering, and testing needed for the proposed project. The Design and Engineering documents shall demonstrate that they meet the intended purpose, ensure public safety, and comply with
all applicable laws, regulations, agreements, permits, codes, and standards. Award 0-4 points.
(iv)
Project development schedule.
The applicant must provide a detailed plan for project development including a proposed schedule of activities, a description of each significant task, its beginning and end, and its relationship to the time needed to initiate and carry the project through to successful completion. This description must address the applicant's project development cash flow requirements. Award 0-3 points.
(v)
Equipment procurement.
The applicant must describe the equipment needed, and the availability of the equipment needed, to complete installation and activation of the new system. The description supports that the required equipment is available, and can be procured and delivered within the proposed project development schedule. Award 0-3 points.
(vi)
Equipment installation.
The applicant must provide a satisfactory description of the plan for site development and system installation that reflects the soundness of the project plan. Award 0-3 points.
(vii)
Operations and maintenance.
The applicant must describe the operations and maintenance requirements of the system necessary for the system to operate as designed and provide the savings and efficiencies as described. The description and requirements noted must be supportable by the technical review. Award 0-3 points.
(5)
Liquid transportation fuels.
If the biorefinery primarily produces liquid transportation fuels, award 10 points.
(6)
Rural area.
If the biorefinery is located in a Rural Area, award 5 points.
§ 4288.22
Ranking of applications.
All scored applications will be ranked by the Agency as soon after the application deadline as possible. The Agency will consider the score an application has received compared to the scores of other applications in the priority list, with higher scoring applications receiving first consideration for payments.
(a)
Selection of applications for payments.
Using the application scoring criteria point values specified in § 4288.21 of this subpart, the Agency will select applications for payments.
(b)
Availability of funds.
As applications are funded, if insufficient funds remain to pay the next highest scoring application, the Agency may elect to pay a lower scoring application. Before this occurs, the Agency will provide the applicant of the higher scoring application the opportunity to reduce the amount of its payment request to the amount of funds available. If the applicant agrees to lower its payment request, it must certify that the purposes of the project can be met, and the Agency must determine the project is feasible at the lower amount.
§ 4288.23
Notifications.
(a)
Successful applicants.
Successful applicants will receive an award letter notifying them of the award, including the terms and conditions, and Form RD 4288-5. Each funded project is unique, and, therefore, conditions of Form RD 4288-5 may vary among projects. Successful applicants must execute and return the Form RD 4288-5, accompanied by any additional items identified in the award letter.
(b)
Unsuccessful applicants.
Unsuccessful applicants will receive a letter notifying them of their application score and ranking and the score necessary to qualify for payments.
§ 4288.24
Program payment provisions.
The procedure the Agency will use to make payments to eligible biorefineries is specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(a)
Payment applications.
The Agency shall make payments based on the biorefinery's expenditures on eligible project costs. To request payments under this program during a fiscal year, an eligible biorefinery must:
(1) Submit an original, validly signed and completed SF 271 to the Agency not more frequently than once a month with the following supporting documentation:
(i) Evidence of expenditure of funds on eligible project costs which shall include paid third party invoices, receipts, bills of sale, and/or payroll records. Such records must be adequate to identify that funds to be reimbursed
were spent on eligible project costs; and
(ii) Evidence that construction of the repowering project is in compliance with the project development schedule.
(2) Certify that the request is accurate.
(3) Furnish the Agency such certifications as required in Form RD 4288-4, Part C, and access to records that verify compliance with program provisions.
(b)
Clarifying information.
After payment applications are submitted, eligible biorefineries may be required to submit additional supporting clarification if their original submittal is not sufficient to verify eligibility for payment.
(c)
Notification.
The Agency will notify the biorefinery, in writing, whenever the Agency determines that a payment request is ineligible and why the request was determined ineligible.
(d)
Refunds and interest payments.
An eligible biorefinery that has received a payment under this program may be required to refund such payment as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section.
(1) An eligible biorefinery receiving payment under this program will become ineligible for payments if the Agency determines the biorefinery has:
(i) Made any material fraudulent representation;
(ii) Misrepresented any material fact affecting a program determination; or
(iii) Upon completion of the repowering project, failed to reduce its fossil fuel consumption, produce energy from renewal biomass or otherwise operate as described in its Agency approved application.
(2) All payments made to a biorefinery determined by the Agency to be ineligible must be refunded to the Agency with interest and other such sums as may become due, including, but not limited to, any interest, penalties, and administrative costs, as determined appropriate under 31 CFR 901.9.
(3) When a refund is due, it must be paid promptly. If a refund is not made promptly, the Agency may use all remedies available to it, including Treasury offset under the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, financial judgment against the biorefinery, and sharing information with the Department of Justice.
(4) Late payment interest will be assessed on each refund in accordance with provisions and rates as determined by the Agency.
(i) Interest charged by the Agency under this program will be at the rate established annually by the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. Interest will accrue from the date payments were received by the biorefinery to the date of repayment, and the rate will adjust in accordance with applicable regulations.
(ii) The Agency may waive the accrual of interest and/or damages if the Agency determines that the cause of the erroneous determination was not due to any fraudulent or negligent action of the biorefinery.
(5) A biorefinery or person receiving payment under this program will be liable for any refund or related charges associated with their project due under this program.
(e)
Remedies.
The remedies provided in this subpart will be in addition to other civil, criminal, or administrative remedies that may apply.
§ 4288.25
Succession and control of facilities and production.
Any party obtaining a biorefinery that is participating in this program must request permission to participate in this program as a successor. The Agency may grant such request if it is determined that, the party is eligible, and permitting such succession would serve the purposes of the program. If appropriate, the Agency will require the consent of the previous party to such succession. Also, the Agency may terminate payments and demand full refund of payments made if a party loses control of a biorefinery whose production of heat or power from renewable biomass is the basis of a program payment, or otherwise fails to retain the ability to assure that all program obligations and requirements will be met.
§ 4288.26
Fiscal Year 2009 and Fiscal Year 2010 applications.
Any entity that submitted an application for payment to the Agency
under this program prior to March 14, 2011 will have their payments made and serviced in accordance with the provisions specified in this subpart.
§§ 4288.27-4288.100
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Advanced Biofuel Payment Program General Provisions

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
76 FR 7967, Feb. 11, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 4288.101
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to support and ensure an expanding production of advanced biofuels by providing payments to eligible advanced biofuel producers.
(b)
Scope.
This subpart sets forth, subject to the availability of funds as provided herein, or as may be limited by law, the terms and conditions an advanced biofuel producer must meet to obtain payments under this Program from the United States Department of Agriculture for eligible advanced biofuel production. Additional terms and conditions may be set forth in the Program contract and payment agreement prescribed by the Agency.
§ 4288.102
Definitions.
The definitions set forth in this section are applicable for all purposes of program administration under this subpart.
Advanced biofuel.
A fuel that is derived from renewable biomass, other than corn kernel starch, to include:
(1) Biofuel derived from cellulose, hemicellulose, or lignin;
(2) Biofuel derived from sugar and starch (other than ethanol derived from corn kernel starch);
(3) Biofuel derived from waste material, including crop residue, other vegetative waste material, animal waste, food waste, and yard waste;
(4) Diesel-equivalent fuel derived from renewable biomass, including vegetable oil and animal fat;
(5) Biogas (including landfill gas and sewage waste treatment gas) produced through the conversion of organic matter from renewable biomass;
(6) Butanol or other alcohols produced through the conversion of organic matter from renewable biomass; or
(7) Other fuel derived from cellulosic biomass.
Advanced biofuel producer.
An individual, corporation, company, foundation, governmental entity, school or other educational facility, association, labor organization, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, group of organizations, or non-profit entity that produces advanced biofuel. An entity that blends or otherwise combines advanced biofuels into a blended biofuel is not considered an advanced biofuel producer under this subpart. An entity that produces biofuel exclusively under a toll/bailment arrangement/third part production contract is not considered an advanced biofuel producer under this subpart.
Agency.
The USDA Rural Development, Rural Business-Cooperative Service or its successor organization.
Alcohol.
Anhydrous ethyl alcohol manufactured in the United States and its territories and sold either:
(1) For fuel use, rendered unfit for beverage use, produced at a biofuel facility and in a manner approved by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives for the production of alcohol for fuel; or
(2) As denatured alcohol used by blenders and refiners and rendered unfit for beverage use.
Alcohol producer.
An advanced biofuel producer authorized by ATF to produce alcohol.
ATF.
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives of the United States Department of Justice.
Bailment.
The temporary placement of control over, or possession of property by an individual or entity, the bailor, into the hands of another, the bailee, for a designated purpose upon which the parties have agreed. For purposes of this Program any advanced biofuel produced by a toll producer of any form, or under any form of third-party production agreement, is regarded/considered as produced under bailment and is ineligible for payment; to either bailor or bailee.
Biodiesel.
A mono alkyl ester, manufactured in the United States and its
territories, that meets the requirements of the appropriate ASTM International standard.
Biofuel.
Fuel derived from renewable biomass.
Biorefinery.
The term “biorefinery” means a facility (including equipment and processes) that—
(1) Converts renewable biomass or an intermediate ingredient or feedstock of renewable biomass into any 1 or more, or a combination, of—
(i) Biofuels;
(ii) Renewable chemicals; or
(iii) Biobased products; and
(2) May produce electricity.
Blender.
A blender is a processor of fuels who combines two or more fuels, one of which must be an advanced biofuel, for distribution and sale. Producers who blend one or more of their own fuels are not blenders under this definition.
Certificate of analysis.
A document approved by the Agency that certifies the quality and purity of the advanced biofuel being produced. The document must be from a qualified, independent third party.
Commodity.
Renewable biomass, other than corn kernel starch, used primarily for the purposes of this Program, by advanced biofuel producers as feedstock from which to produce/derive advanced biofuel. Eligible renewable biomass is organized into the following commodity categories:
(1) Title I grains and oilseeds including: Wheat, corn, grain sorghum, barley, oats, and rice; sugars, and starches (other than corn kernel starch); Soybeans, sunflower seed, rapeseed, canola, safflower, flaxseed, mustard, crambe, sesame, and peanuts; as identified under Title I, Public Law 115-334, and as determined by the Secretary;
(2) Other oilseeds and nuts including cottonseed, palm, camelina, coconut, and olive; and algae;
(3) A cellulosic commodity grown for energy purposes, such as, hybrid poplar and other energy trees, switch grass and other energy grasses; cellulose, hemicellulose, or lignin;
(4) Waste material, including crop residue/Stover, other vegetative waste material/orchard waste, animal waste/manure, food waste/food processing waste, and yard waste/biodegradable solid waste/organic matter;
(5) Fats, oils, and greases, derived from an agricultural product, including: Recycled fats, oils, and greases, such as used cooking oil and reclaimed-industrial grade-distillers' corn/sorghum oil; tallow, white grease, yellow grease, and other livestock renderings; and
(6) Any animal byproduct (in addition to oils, fats, and greases) that may be used to produce bioenergy, as determined by the Secretary.
Contract.
Form RD 4288-2, “Advanced Biofuel Payment Program Contract,” signed by the eligible advanced biofuel producer and the Agency, that defines the terms and conditions for participating in and receiving payment under this Program.
Derived.
A process that creates a physical, and/or chemical, and/or biological change in renewable biomass/feedstock.
Eligible advanced biofuel producer.
A producer of advanced biofuels that meets all requirements of § 4288.110 of this subpart.
Eligible renewable biomass.
Renewable biomass, as defined in this section, excluding corn kernel starch. See also commodity.
Eligible renewable energy content.
That portion of an advanced biofuel's energy content derived from eligible renewable biomass feedstock. The energy content from any portion of the biofuel, whether from, for example, blending with another fuel or a denaturant, that is derived from a non-eligible renewable biomass feedstock (e.g., corn kernel starch) is not eligible for payment under this Program.
Enrollment application.
Form RD 4288-1, “Advanced Biofuel Payment Program Annual Application,” which is submitted by advanced biofuel producers for participation in this Program.
Ethanol.
Anhydrous ethyl alcohol manufactured in the United States and its territories and sold either:
(1) For fuel use, and which has been rendered unfit for beverage use and produced at an advanced biofuel facility approved by the ATF for the production of ethanol for fuel, or
(2) As denatured ethanol used by blenders and energy refiners, which has been rendered unfit for beverage use.
Ethanol producer.
An advanced biofuel producer authorized by ATF to produce ethanol.
Final Product.
A product of a biorefinery that is ready for sale/distribution without further processing. For purposes of this Program, an advanced biofuel is a Final Product eligible for payment if it is ready for distribution and sale as a fuel.
Fiscal Year.
A 12-month period beginning each October 1 and ending September 30 of the following calendar year.
Flared gas.
The burning of unwanted gas through a pipe (also called a flare). Flaring is a means of disposal used when the operator cannot transport the gas to market or convert to electricity and cannot use the gas for any other purpose.
Incremental production.
The quantity of eligible advanced biofuel produced at an advanced biofuel biorefinery in the fiscal year for which payment is sought that exceeds the quantity of advanced biofuel produced at the biorefinery over the prior fiscal year.
Large producer.
(1) An advanced biofuel producer which in the prior fiscal year, produced more than:
(i) 150,000,000 gallons of liquid advanced biofuel per year; or
(ii) 15,900,000 Million British Thermal Units (MMBTU) of biogas and/or solid advanced biofuel per year.
(2) The amount of gallons and MMBTUs listed in paragraphs (1)(i) and (ii) of this definition include the advanced biofuel production at all facilities, in the United States, in which the producer and/or its parent company(ies) have a 50-percent or greater ownership.
Parent company.
A company/corporation that has a controlling interest in another company/corporation, giving it control of its operations. The company is deemed a subsidiary of the parent company.
Payment application.
Form RD 4288-3, “Advanced Biofuel Payment Program—Payment Request,” which is submitted by an eligible advance producer to the Agency in order to receive payment under this Program.
Quarter.
The Federal fiscal time period for any fiscal year as follows:
(1) 1st Quarter: October 1 through December 31;
(2) 2nd Quarter: January 1 through March 31;
(3) 3rd Quarter: April 1 through June 30; and
(4) 4th Quarter: July 1 through September 30.
Renewable biomass.
(1) Materials, pre-commercial thinnings, or invasive species from National Forest System land and public lands (as defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702)) that:
(i) Are byproducts of preventive treatments that are removed to reduce hazardous fuels; to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation; or to restore ecosystem health;
(ii) Would not otherwise be used for higher-value products; and
(iii) Are harvested in accordance with applicable law and land management plans and the requirements for old-growth maintenance, restoration, and management direction of paragraphs (e)(2), (e)(3), and (e)(4) and large-tree retention of paragraph (f) of section 102 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6512); or
(2) Any organic matter that is available on a renewable or recurring basis from non-Federal land or land belonging to an Indian or Indian Tribe that is held in trust by the United States or subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States, including:
(i) Renewable plant material, including feed grains; other agricultural commodities; other plants and trees; and algae; and
(ii) Waste material, including crop residue; other vegetative waste material (including wood waste and wood residues); animal waste and byproducts (including fats, oils, greases, and manure); and food waste and yard waste.
Sale.
A transaction between two or more parties, typically a buyer and a seller, in which goods or services are exchanged for money or other assets.
Sign-up period.
The time period during which the Agency will accept enrollment applications.
State.
Any of the 50 States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Third party production.
Third party production involves outsourcing production processes to a third-party company whereby the third-party company, hired to produce, is supplying the manufacturing process as well as sourcing the raw materials/commodity feedstock. The contract producer is responsible for manufacturing the product to specification and disposition/delivery requirements. For purposes of this Program, any advanced biofuel produced under a contractual third-party production agreement is ineligible for payment. A producer that is strictly a third-party contractor produces no eligible advanced biofuel.
Toll producer.
See also bailment. Toll production/manufacturing is an arrangement, where a company with specialised equipment processes raw materials or unfinished goods for a different company. A toll producer of advanced biofuels produces advanced biofuels for another company. For purposes of this Program, any advanced biofuel produced by a toll producer of any form, or under any form of third-party production agreement, is regarded/considered as produced under bailment and is ineligible for payment.
USDA.
The United States Department of Agriculture.
[76 FR 7967, Feb. 11, 2011, as amended at 84 FR 71301, Dec. 27, 2019]
§ 4288.103
Review or appeal rights.
A person may seek a review of an Agency decision or appeal to the National Appeals Division in accordance with 7 CFR part 11 of this title.
§ 4288.104
Compliance with other laws and regulations.
(a) Advanced biofuel producers must comply with other applicable Federal, State, and local laws, including, but not limited to, the Equal Employment Opportunity Act, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and 7 CFR part 1901, subpart E. This includes collection and maintenance of race, sex, and national origin data of the recipient's employee.
(b) Producers must comply with equal opportunity and nondiscriminatory requirements in accordance with 7 CFR 15d. Rural Development will not discriminate against an applicant on the bases of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, familial status, disability, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to contract); to the fact that all or part of the applicant's income derives from public assistance program; or to the fact that the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act.
§ 4288.105
Oversight and monitoring.
(a)
Verification.
The Agency reserves the right to verify all payment applications and subsequent payments made under this subpart, as frequently as necessary, to ensure the integrity of the Program. The Agency will conduct site visits as necessary.
(1)
Production and feedstock verification.
The Agency will review producer records to verify the type and amount of biofuel produced and the type and amount of commodity/eligible renewable biomass used.
(2)
Blending verification.
The Agency will review the producer's certificates of analysis and feedstock records to verify the portion of the advanced biofuel eligible for payment.
(3)
Certificate of Analysis.
The Agency will review the producer records for quarterly payments to ensure that each Certificate of Analysis has been issued by an Agency-approved qualified entity, which may include the blender only if the blender is not associated with the biorefinery.
(b)
Records.
For the purpose of verifying compliance with the requirements of this subpart, each eligible advanced biofuel producer shall make available at one place at a reasonable time for examination by representatives of USDA, all books, papers, records, contracts, scale tickets, settlement sheets, invoices, written price
quotations, and other documents related to the Program that is within the control of such advanced biofuel producer for not less than 3 years from each Program payment date.
[76 FR 7967, Feb. 11, 2011, as amended at 84 FR 71302, Dec. 27, 2019]
§ 4288.106
Forms, regulations, and instructions.
Copies of all forms, regulations, instructions, and other materials related to this Program may be obtained from the USDA Rural Development State Office, Rural Energy Coordinator and the USDA Rural Development website at
https://www.rd.usda.gov/.
[84 FR 71302, Dec. 27, 2019]
§ 4288.107
Exception authority.
The Administrator of the Agency (“Administrator”) may, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Agriculture, make an exception, on a case-by-case basis, to any requirement or provision of this subpart that is not inconsistent with any authorizing statute or applicable law, if the Administrator determines that application of the requirement or provision would adversely affect the Federal government's interest.
§§ 4288.108-4288.109
[Reserved]

# Eligibility Provisions
§ 4288.110
Applicant eligibility.
Sections 4288.110 through 4288.119 present the requirements associated with advanced biofuel producer eligibility, biofuel eligibility, eligibility notifications, and payment record requirements. To be eligible for this Program, the applicant must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section and must provide additional information as may be requested by the Agency under paragraph (b) of this section. Public bodies and educational institutions are not eligible for this Program.
(a)
Eligible producer.
The applicant must be an advanced biofuel producer, as defined in this subpart.
(b)
Eligibility determination.
The Agency will determine an applicant's eligibility for participation in this Program. If an applicant's original submittal is not sufficient to verify an applicant's eligibility, the Agency will notify the applicant, in writing, as soon as practicable after receipt of the application. This notification will identify, at a minimum, the additional information being requested to enable the Agency to determine the applicant's eligibility and a timeframe in which to supply the information.
(1) If the applicant provides the requested information to the Agency within the specified timeframe, the Agency will determine the applicant's eligibility for the upcoming fiscal year.
(2) If the applicant does not provide the requested information to the Agency within the specified timeframe, the Agency will not consider the applicant any further for participation in the upcoming fiscal year. Such applicants may elect to enroll during the next sign-up period.
(c)
Ineligibility determination.
An otherwise eligible producer will be determined to be ineligible if the producer:
(1) Refuses to allow the Agency to verify any information provided by the producer under this subpart, including information for determining applicant eligibility, advanced biofuel eligibility, and application payments;
(2) Fails to meet any of the conditions set out in this subpart, in the contract, or in other Program documents; or
(3) Fails to comply with all applicable Federal, State, or local laws.
[76 FR 7967, Feb. 11, 2011, as amended at 84 FR 71302, Dec. 27, 2019]
§ 4288.111
Biofuel eligibility.
To be eligible for this Program, a biofuel must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section, and must not be listed in paragraph (b) of this section, and the biofuel's producer must provide additional information as may be requested by the Agency under paragraph (c) of this section.
(a)
Eligible advanced biofuel.
For an advanced biofuel to be eligible, each of the following conditions must be met, as applicable:
(1) The advanced biofuel must meet the definition of advanced biofuel and be produced in a State;
(2) The advanced biofuel must be a solid, liquid, or gaseous advanced biofuel;
(3) The advanced biofuel must be a Final Product; and
(4) The advanced biofuel must be sold as an advanced biofuel through an arm's length transaction to a third party.
(b)
Ineligible fuels.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, for the purposes of this Program, the following fuels, and as may be supplemented by the Agency through the publication of documents in the
Federal Register,
are not eligible for payment:
(1) Flared gases;
(2) Fuels derived from paper milling and other processes commonly ascribed to wood products manufacturing and generically referred to as “liquor” (
e.g.,
black liquor, red liquor, brown liquor, white liquor, green liquor, etc.), which typically are blended with diesel and burned as boiler fuel;
(3) Biofuels produced from solid eligible renewable biomass primarily by mechanical means, whether by hand or by machine, such as collecting, baling, bundling, chopping, screening, and chipping of the renewable biomass. Examples of ineligible biofuels that are not eligible advanced biofuels for the purposes of this subpart include, but are not limited to, baled energy grasses, chipped or chunked woody biomass, and chopped or split firewood; and
(4) Any advanced biofuel produced under bailment or third-party production contract and/or any variation thereof.
(c)
Eligibility determination.
The Agency will determine a biofuel's eligibility for payment under this Program. If an applicant's original submittal is not sufficient to verify a biofuel's eligibility, the Agency will notify the applicant, in writing, as soon as practicable after receipt of the application. This notification will identify, at a minimum, the additional information being requested to enable the Agency to determine the biofuel's eligibility and a timeframe in which to supply the information.
(1) If the applicant provides the requested information to the Agency within the specified timeframe, the Agency will determine the biofuel's eligibility for the upcoming fiscal year.
(2) If the applicant does not provide the requested information to the Agency within the specified timeframe, the biofuel will not be eligible for payment under this Program in the upcoming fiscal year. Applicants may elect to include such biofuels in the application form submitted during the next sign-up period.
[76 FR 7967, Feb. 11, 2011, as amended at 84 FR 71302, Dec. 27, 2019]
§ 4288.112
Eligibility notifications.
(a)
Applicant eligibility.
If an applicant is determined by the Agency to be eligible for participation, the Agency will notify the applicant, in writing, as soon as practicable after receipt of the application and will assign the applicant a contract number.
(b)
Ineligibility notifications.
If an applicant or a biofuel is determined by the Agency to be ineligible, the Agency will notify the applicant, in writing, as soon as practicable after receipt of the application, as to the reason(s) the applicant or biofuel was determined to be ineligible. Such applicant will have appeal rights as specified in this subpart.
(c)
Subsequent ineligibility determinations.
If at any time a producer or an advanced biofuel is determined to be ineligible, the Agency will notify the producer in writing of its determination.
§ 4288.113
Payment record requirements.
To be eligible for Program payments, an advanced biofuel producer must maintain records for all relevant fiscal years and fiscal year quarters for each advanced biofuel facility indicating:
(a) The type of eligible renewable biomass used in the production of advanced biofuel;
(b) The quantity of advanced biofuel produced from eligible renewable biomass at each advanced biofuel facility;
(c) The quantity of eligible renewable biomass used at each advanced biofuel facility to produce the advanced biofuel; and
(d) All other records required to establish Program eligibility and compliance.
§§ 4288.114-4288.119
[Reserved]

# Enrollment Provisions
§ 4288.120
Enrollment.
In order to participate in the Program, a producer of advanced biofuels must be approved by the Agency and enter into a contract with the Agency. The process for enrolling in the Program is presented in this section. Advanced biofuel producers who expect to produce eligible advanced biofuels at any time during a fiscal year must enroll in the Program as described in this section.
(a)
Enrollment.
To enroll in the Program, an advanced biofuel producer must submit to the Agency a completed enrollment application during the applicable sign-up period, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Applicants must be registered in the System for Award Management (SAM) prior to submitting an application; which can be obtained at no cost via a toll-free request line at (866) 705-5711 or online at
www.sam.gov/SAM.
Registration of a new entity in SAM requires an original, signed, and notarized letter stating that the applicant is the authorized Entity Administrator, before the registration will be activated.
(1) Eligible advanced biofuel producers must submit enrollment applications during each sign-up period in order to continue participating in this Program. If a participating producer fails to submit the enrollment application during a fiscal year's applicable sign-up period, the producer's contract will be terminated and the producer will be ineligible to receive payments for that fiscal year. Such a producer must reapply, and sign a new contract, to participate in the Program for future fiscal years.
(2) Eligible advanced biofuel producers may submit an enrollment application during a fiscal year's sign-up period even if the advanced biofuel facility is not currently producing, but is scheduled to start producing advanced biofuel in that fiscal year.
(3) The producer must furnish the Agency all required certifications before acceptance into the Program, and furnish access to the advanced biofuel producer's records required by the Agency to verify compliance with Program provisions. The required certifications depend on the type of biofuel produced. Certifications specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (a)(3)(iv) of this section are to be completed and provided by an accredited independent third party.
(i)
Alcohol.
For alcohol producers with authority from ATF to produce alcohol, copies of either
(A) The Alcohol Fuel Producers Permit (TTB F 5110.74) or
(B) The registration of Distilled Spirits Plant (TTB F 5110.41) and Operating Permit (TTB F 5110.25).
(ii)
Hydrous ethanol.
For hydrous ethanol that is upgraded by another distiller to anhydrous ethyl alcohol, the increased ethanol production is eligible for payment one time only. If the advanced biofuel producer entering into this agreement is:
(A) The hydrous ethanol producer, then the advanced biofuel producer shall include with the contract an affidavit, acceptable to the Agency, from the distiller stating that the:
(
1
) Applicable hydrous ethanol produced is distilled and denatured for fuel use according to ATF requirements, and
(
2
) Distiller will not include the applicable ethanol in any payment requests that the distiller may make under this Program.
(B) The distiller that upgrades hydrous ethanol to anhydrous ethyl alcohol, then the advanced biofuel producer shall include with the contract an affidavit, acceptable to the Agency, from the hydrous ethanol producer stating that the hydrous ethanol producer will not include the applicable ethanol in any payment requests that may be made under this Program.
(iii)
Biodiesel, biomass-based diesel, and liquid hydrocarbons derived from biomass.
For these fuels, the advanced biofuel producer shall certify that the producer, the advanced biofuel facility, and the biofuel meet the definitions of these terms as defined in § 4288.102, the applicable registration requirements under the Energy Independence and Security Act and the Clean Air Act and under the applicable regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Internal Revenue Service, and the
quality requirements per applicable ASTM International standards (e.g., ASTM D6751) and commercially acceptable quality standards of the local market. If a Renewable Identification Number has been established, the advanced biofuel producer shall also provide documentation of the most recent Renewable Identification Number for a typical gallon of each type of advanced biofuel produced.
(iv)
Gaseous advanced biofuel.
For gaseous advanced biofuel producers, certification that the biofuel meets commercially acceptable pipeline quality standards of the local market; that the flow meters used to determine the quantity of advanced biofuel produced are industry standard and properly calibrated by a third-party professional; and that the readings have been taken by a qualified individual.
(v)
Woody biomass feedstock.
If the feedstock is from National Forest system land or public lands, documentation must be provided that it cannot be used as a higher value wood-based product.
(4) Applicants must submit the forms specified in this paragraph (a)(4) with the enrollment application when applying for participation under this subpart and as needed when re-enrolling in the program.
(i) RD Instruction 1940-Q, Exhibit A-1, “Certification for Contracts, Grants and Loans.”
(ii) SF-LLL, “Disclosure of Lobbying Activities.”
(iii) Form RD 400-4, “Assurance Agreement.”
(b)
Sign-up period.
The sign-up period is October 1 to October 31 of the fiscal year for which payment is sought, unless otherwise announced by the Agency in a
Federal Register
notice.
[76 FR 7967, Feb. 11, 2011, as amended at 84 FR 71302, Dec. 27, 2019]
§ 4288.121
Contract.
Advanced biofuel producers determined to be eligible to receive payments must then enter into a contract with the Agency in order to participate in this Program.
(a)
Contract.
The Agency will forward the contract to the advanced biofuel producer. The advanced biofuel producer must agree to the terms and conditions of the contract, sign, date, and return it to the Agency within the time provided by the Agency.
(b)
Length of contract.
Once signed, a contract will remain in effect until terminated as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c)
Contract review.
All contracts will be reviewed at least annually to ensure compliance with the contract and ensure the integrity of the program.
(d)
Contract termination.
Contracts under this Program will be terminated in writing by the Agency. Contracts may be terminated under any one of the following conditions:
(1) At the mutual agreement of the parties;
(2) In accordance with applicable Program notices and regulations;
(3) The advanced biofuel producer withdraws from the Program and so notifies the Agency, in writing;
(4) The advanced biofuel producer fails to submit the enrollment application during a sign-up period;
(5) The Program is discontinued or not funded;
(6) All of a participating advanced biofuel producer's advanced biofuel facilities no longer exist or no longer produce any eligible advanced biofuel; or
(7) The Agency determines that the advanced biofuel producer is ineligible for participation.
§§ 4288.122-4288.129
[Reserved]

# Payment Provisions
§ 4288.130
Payment applications.
Sections 4288.130 through 4288.189 identify the process and procedures the Agency will use to make payments to eligible advanced biofuel producers. In order to receive payments under this Program, eligible advanced biofuel producers with valid contracts must submit a payment application, as required under paragraph (a) of this section. The Agency will review the payment application and, if necessary, may request additional information, as specified under paragraph (b) of this section.
(a)
Applying for payment.
To apply for payments under this subpart for a fiscal year, an eligible advanced biofuel producer must:
(1) After a quarter has been completed, submit a payment application covering the quarter;
(2) Certify that the request is accurate;
(3) Furnish the Agency such certification, and access to such records, as the Agency considers necessary to verify compliance with Program provisions; and
(4) Provide documentation as requested by the Agency of the net production of advanced biofuel at all advanced biofuel facilities during the relevant quarter.
(b)
Review of payment applications.
The Agency will review each payment application it receives to determine if it is eligible for payment.
(1)
Review factors.
Factors that the Agency will consider in reviewing payments applications include, but are not necessarily limited to:
(i)
Contract validity.
Whether the entity submitting the payment application has a valid contract with the Agency under this Program;
(ii)
Biofuel eligibility.
Whether the biofuel for which payment is sought is an eligible advanced biofuel; and
(iii)
Calculations.
Whether the calculations for determining the requested payment are complete and accurate.
(2)
Additional documentation.
If the Agency determines additional information is required for the Agency to complete its review of a payment application, eligible advanced biofuel producers shall submit such additional supporting documentation as requested by the Agency. If the producer does not provide the requested information within the required time period, the Agency will not make payment.
(c)
Payment application eligibility.
The Agency will notify the advanced biofuel producer, in writing, as soon as practicable after the payment application, whenever the Agency determines that a payment application, or any portion thereof, is ineligible for payment and the basis for the Agency's determination of ineligibility.
(d)
Submittal information.
Unless otherwise specified in a notice published in the
Federal Register,
eligible advanced biofuel producers must submit payment applications for this Program no later than 4:30 p.m. local time on the last day of the calendar month following the quarter for which payment is being requested. No payment applications received after the specified date and time will be considered, regardless of the postmark on the application.
(1) Any payment application form that is received by the Agency after October 31 of the calendar year for the preceding fiscal year is ineligible for payment.
(2) If the actual deadline falls on a weekend or a Federally-observed holiday, the deadline is the next Federal business day.
[76 FR 7967, Feb. 11, 2011, as amended at 84 FR 71302, Dec. 27, 2019]
§ 4288.131
Payment provisions.
Payments to advanced biofuel producers for eligible advanced biofuel production will be determined in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(a)
Actual production.
Participating producers will be paid on a quarterly basis for the actual quantity of eligible advanced biofuel produced during the quarter. Payment for actual production will be determined according to paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Amount of payment funds available.
Based on the amount of funds made available to this Program each fiscal year, the Agency will allocate available program funds according to paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section.
(c)
Quarterly allocations.
For each fiscal year, the Agency will allocate in each quarter one-fourth of the funds identified in paragraph (b) of this section allocated for the entire fiscal year.
(d)
Determination of payment rate.
Each quarter, the Agency will establish an actual production payment rate using the procedures specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section. This rate will be applied to the actual quantity of eligible advanced biofuel produced to determine payments to eligible advanced biofuel producers.
(1) Based on the information provided in each payment application, the Agency will determine the eligible advanced biofuel production. If the Agency determines that the amount of advanced
biofuel production reported in a payment application is not supported by the documentation submitted with the payment application, the Agency may revise the reported production to an amount that is commensurate with the submitted documentation.
(2) For each producer, the Agency will convert the production determined to be eligible under paragraph (c) of this section into British Thermal Unit (BTU) equivalent using factors published by the Energy Information Administration (EIA) (or successor organization). If the Energy Information Administration does not publish such conversion factor for a specific type of advanced biofuel, the Agency will use a conversion factor developed by another appropriate entity. If no such conversion factor exists, the Agency, in consultation with other Federal agencies, will establish and use a conversion formula as appropriate, until the Energy Information Administration or other appropriate entity publishes a conversion factor for said advanced biofuel. The Agency will then calculate the total eligible BTUs across all eligible applications.
(3) For each quarter, the Agency will determine the actual production payment rate ($/BTU) based on paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. The rate will be calculated such that all quarterly funds for actual production will be distributed, subject to the payment provisions specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(4) Using the actual production payment rate determined and the actual production for each type of advanced biofuel produced at a biorefinery, the Agency will calculate each quarter payment for each eligible advanced biofuel producer for that quarter.
(e)
Other payment provisions.
The following provisions apply:
(1) Notwithstanding any other provisions in this section, the Agency will provide payments to one or more eligible advanced biofuel producers from a single eligible Commodity, including intermediate ingredients of that single Commodity or use of that single Commodity and its intermediate ingredients in combination with another Commodity, of not more than one-third of available program funds in each quarter.
(i) Payments to producers for advanced biofuel derived from a commodity listed in Title I grains and oilseeds (as defined paragraph (1) of the defintion of commodity in § 4288.102), are subject to the one-third limitation as tracked individually for each commodity. For example, with respect to the Title I grains and oilseeds commodity—grain sorghum, all payments for the quarter to producers of advanced biofuel derived from grain sorghum are tabulated and subject to the one-third payment limitation. This is similarly true for each commodity listed under Title I grains and oilseeds—barley, oats, rice, soybeans, etc.
(ii) Payments to producers for advanced biofuel derived from a commodity listed in paragraphs (2) through (6) of the defintion of commodity in § 4288.102, inclusively, are subject to the one-third limitation as tracked cumulatively with each commodity group. For example, with respect to the commodity in paragraph (2) of the definition of commodity (other oilseeds and nuts including cottonseed, palm, camelina, coconut, and olive and algae), all payments for the quarter to producers of fuel derived from “other oilseeds, nuts and algae” are tabulated cumulatively (all are tracked as “other oilseeds, nuts, and algae” whether olive, or coconut, or camelina, etc.) and subject cumulatively to the one-third payment limitation. This is similarly true for the commodity in paragraphs (3) through (6) of the definition of commodity.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Agency will provide payments to large producers of not more than five (5) percent of available program funds in any fiscal year. At any time during the year, if the limit on payments to large producers would be reached, the Agency will pro-rate payments to large producers based on the BTU content of their eligible advanced biofuel production so as not to exceed the limit.
(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Agency will provide payments to any eligible advanced biofuel producer, that is not a large producer, of not more than eight
(8) percent of available funds in any fiscal year. At any time during the year, if the eight percent to the advanced biofuel producer would be reached, the Agency will pro-rate payments based on the BTU content of the eligible advanced biofuel production so as not to exceed the limit.
(4) Advanced biofuel producers will be paid based on the amount of eligible renewable energy content of the advanced biofuels only if the producer provides sufficient documentation, including a Certificate of Analysis, for the Agency to determine the eligible renewable energy content for which payment is being requested, and quantity produced through such documentation as, but not limited to, records of sale and calibrated flow meter records.
(5) Payment will be made to only one eligible advanced biofuel producer per biorefinery. If a producer owns more than one facility, the Agency's tracking system will add all actual BTUs and calculate one payment amount. For facilities owned by more than one producer, only one payment will be issued per facility.
(6) Subject to other provisions of this section, advanced biofuel producers shall be paid any sum due.
(7) A producer will be paid only for the advanced biofuels identified in the enrollment application submitted during the sign-up period and which are produced during the fiscal year. If the producer starts producing a new advanced biofuel or changes the type of advanced biofuel during the fiscal year, the producer will not receive any payments for those new advanced biofuels. However, during each sign-up period, a producer may identify new advanced biofuels and production levels compared to the previous year.
(8) When determining the quantity of eligible advanced biofuel, if an applicant is blending its advanced biofuel using ineligible feedstocks (
e.g.,
fossil gasoline or methanol, corn kernel starch), only the quantity of advanced biofuel being produced from Renewable Biomass, other than corn kernel starch, will be used in determining the payment rates and for which payments will be made.
[84 FR 71302, Dec. 27, 2019]
§ 4288.132
Payment adjustments.
The Agency will adjust the payments otherwise payable to the advanced biofuel producer if there is a difference between the amount actually produced and the amount determined by the Agency to be eligible for payment.
§ 4288.133
Payment liability.
Any payment, or portion thereof, made under this subpart shall be made without regard to questions of title under State law and without regard to any claim or lien against the advanced biofuel, or proceeds thereof, in favor of the owner or any other creditor except agencies of the U.S. Government.
§ 4288.134
Refunds and interest payments.
An eligible advanced biofuel producer who receives payments under this subpart may be required to refund such payments as specified in this section. If the Agency suspects fraudulent representation through its site visits and records inspections under § 4288.105(b), it will be referred to the Office of Inspector General for appropriate action.
(a) An eligible advanced biofuel producer receiving payments under this subpart shall become ineligible if the Agency determines the advanced biofuel producer has:
(1) Made any fraudulent representation; or
(2) Misrepresented any material fact affecting a Program determination.
(b) If an Agency determination that a producer is not eligible for participation under this subpart is appealed and overturned, the Agency will make appropriate and applicable payments to the producer from Program funds, to the extent such funds are available, that remain from the fiscal year in which the original adverse Agency decision was made.
(c) All payments made to an entity determined by the Agency to be ineligible shall be refunded to the Agency with interest and other such sums as may become due, including, but not limited to, any interest, penalties, and administrative costs as determined appropriate under 31 CFR 901.9.
(d) When a refund is due, it shall be paid promptly. If a refund is not made
promptly, the Agency may use all remedies available to it, including Treasury offset under the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, financial judgment against the producer, and referral to the Department of Justice.
(e) Late payment interest shall be assessed on each refund in accordance with the provisions and rates as established by the United States Treasury.
(1) Interest charged by the Agency under this subpart shall be established by the United States Treasury. Such interest shall accrue from the date such payments were made by the Agency to the date of repayment by the producer.
(2) The Agency may waive the accrual of interest or damages if the Agency determines that the cause of the erroneous payment was not due to any action of the advanced biofuel producer.
(f) Any advanced biofuel producer or person engaged in an act prohibited by this section and any advanced biofuel producer or person receiving payment under this subpart shall be jointly and severally liable for any refund due under this subpart and for related charges.
§ 4288.135
Unauthorized payments and offsets.
When unauthorized assistance has been made to an advanced biofuel producer under this Program, the Agency reserves the right to collect from the recipient the sum that is determined to be unauthorized. If the recipient fails to pay the Agency the unauthorized assistance plus other sums due under this section, the Agency reserves the right to offset that amount against Program payments.
(a)
Unauthorized assistance.
The Agency will seek to collect from recipients all unauthorized assistance made under this Program using the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section.
(1)
Notification to the producer.
Upon determination that unauthorized assistance has been made to an advanced biofuel producer under this Program, the Agency will send a demand letter to the producer. Unless the Agency modifies the original demand, it will remain in full force and effect. The demand letter will:
(i) Specify the amount of unauthorized assistance, including any accrued interest to be repaid, and the standards for imposing accrued interest;
(ii) State the amount of penalties and administrative costs to be paid, the standards for imposing them and the date on which they will begin to accrue;
(iii) Provide detailed reason(s) why the assistance was determined to be unauthorized;
(iv) State the amount is immediately due and payable to the Agency;
(v) Describe the rights the producer has for seeking review or appeal of the Agency's determination pursuant to 7 CFR part 11;
(vi) Describe the Agency's available remedies regarding enforced collection, including referral of debt delinquent after due process for Federal salary, benefit and tax offset under the Department of Treasury Offset Program; and
(vii) Provide an opportunity for the producer to meet with the Agency and to provide to the Agency facts, figures, written records, or other information that might refute the Agency's determination.
(A) If the producer meets with the Agency, the producer will be given an opportunity to provide information to refute the Agency's findings.
(B) When requested by the producer, the Agency may grant additional time for the producer to assemble documentation. Such extension of time for payment will be valid only if the Agency documents the extension in writing and specifies the period in days during which period the payment obligation created by the demand letter (but not the ongoing accrual of interest) will be suspended. Interest and other charges will continue to accrue pursuant to the initial demand letter during any extension period unless the terms of the demand letter are modified in writing by the Agency.
(2)
Payment in full.
If the producer agrees with the Agency's determination or will pay the amount in question, the Agency may allow a reasonable period of time (usually not to exceed 90 days) for the producer to arrange for repayment. The amount due will be the unauthorized payments made plus interest accrued beginning on the date of the demand letter at the interest rate stipulated until the date paid unless otherwise agreed, in writing, by the Agency.
(3)
Promissory note.
If the producer agrees with the Agency's determination or is willing to pay the amount in question, but cannot repay the unauthorized assistance within a reasonable period of time, the Agency will convert the unauthorized assistance amount to a loan provided all of the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (a)(3)(iii) of this section are met. Loans established under this paragraph will be at the Treasury interest rate in effect on the date the financial assistance was provided and that is consistent with the term length of the promissory note. In all cases, the receivable will be amortized per a repayment schedule satisfactory to the Agency that has the producer pay the unauthorized assistance as quickly as possible, but in no event will the amortization period exceed fifteen (15) years. The producer will be required to execute a debt instrument to evidence this receivable, and the best security position practicable in a manner that will adequately protect the Agency's interest during the repayment period will be taken as security.
(i) The producer did not provide false information;
(ii) It would be highly inequitable to require prompt repayment of the unauthorized assistance; and
(iii) Failure to collect the unauthorized assistance immediately will not adversely affect the Agency's interests.
(4)
Appeals.
Appeals resulting from the demand letter prescribed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be handled according to the provisions of § 4288.103. All appeal provisions will be concluded before proceeding with further actions.
(b)
Offsets.
Failure to make payment as determined under paragraph (a) of this section will be treated by the Agency as a debt that can be collected by an Administrative offset, unless written agreements to repay such debt as an alternative to administrative offset is agreed to between the Agency and the producer.
(1) Any debtor who wishes to reach a written agreement to repay the debt as an alternative to administrative offset must submit a written proposal for repayment of the debt, which must be received by the Agency within 20 calendar days of the date the notice was delivered to the debtor. In response, the Agency will notify the debtor in writing whether the proposed agreement is acceptable. In exercising its discretion, the Agency will balance the Government's interest in collecting the debt against fairness to the debtor.
(2) When the Agency receives a debtor's proposal for a repayment agreement, the offset is stayed until the debtor is notified as to whether the initial agreement is acceptable. If a Government payment will be made before the end of the fiscal year and the review is not yet completed, payment will be deferred pending resolution of the review.
§ 4288.136
Remedies.
In addition to the steps available under the provisions of §§ 4288.134 and 4288.135, if the Agency has determined that a producer has misrepresented the information or defrauded the Government, the Agency will take one of the following steps in accordance with 2 CFR part 417:
(a) Suspend payments on the Contract until the violation has been reconciled;
(b) Terminate the Contract; or
(c) Debarment to participate in any Federal Government program.
[76 FR 7967, Feb. 11, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 31939, May 28, 2020]
§ 4288.137
Succession and loss of control of advanced biofuel facilities and production.
(a)
Contract succession.
An entity who becomes the eligible advanced biofuel producer for an advanced biofuel facility that is under contract under this subpart must request permission from the Agency to succeed to the Program
contract and the Agency may grant such request if it is determined that the entity is an eligible producer and permitting such succession would serve the purposes of the Program. If appropriate, the Agency may require the consent of the previous eligible advanced biofuel producer to such succession.
(b)
Loss of control.
Payments will be made only for eligible advanced biofuels produced at an advanced biofuel facility owned or controlled by an eligible advanced biofuel producer with a valid contract. If payments are made to an advanced biofuel producer for production at an advanced biofuel facility no longer owned or controlled by said producer or to an otherwise ineligible advanced biofuel producer, the Agency will demand full refund of all such payments.
§§ 4288.138-4288.200
[Reserved]
Pt. 4290

# PART 4290—RURAL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANY (“RBIC”) PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Introduction to Part 4290
Sec.
4290.10
Description of the Rural Business Investment Company Program.
4290.15
Leveraged and Non-leveraged Rural Business Investment Companies.
4290.20
Legal basis and applicability of this part 4290.
4290.30
Amendments to Act and regulations.
4290.40
How to read this part 4290.
4290.45
Responsibility for implementing this part 4290.

# Subpart B—Definition of Terms Used in Part 4290
4290.50
Definition of terms.

# Subpart C—Qualifications for the RBIC Program

# Organizing a RBIC
4290.100
Business form.
4290.110
Qualified management.
4290.120
Plan to invest in Rural Areas.
4290.130
Identified Rural Areas.
4290.140
Approval of initial Management Expenses.
4290.150
Management and ownership diversity requirement.
4290.160
Special rules for Partnership RBICs and LLC RBICs.
4290.165
Obligations of Control Persons.

# Capitalizing a RBIC
4290.200
Adequate capital for RBICs.
4290.210
Minimum capital requirements for RBICs.
4290.230
Private Capital for RBICs.
4290.240
Limitations on non-cash capital contributions in Private Capital.

# Subpart D—Application and Approval Process for RBIC Licensing
4290.300
When and how to apply for a RBIC License.
4290.310
Contents of application.
4290.320
Contents of comprehensive business plan.
4290.330
Guarantee fee.

# Subpart E—Evaluation and Selection of RBICs
4290.340
Evaluation and selection—general.
4290.350
Eligibility and completeness.
4290.360
Initial review of Applicant's management team's qualifications.
4290.370
Evaluation criteria.
4290.380
Selection.
4290.390
Licensing as a RBIC.

# Subpart F—Changes in Ownership, Structure, or Control

# Changes in ControL or Ownership of a RBIC
4290.400
Changes in ownership of 10 percent or more of RBIC but no change of Control.
4290.410
Changes in Control of RBIC (through change in ownership or otherwise).
4290.420
Prohibition on exercise of ownership or Control rights in RBIC before approval.
4290.430
Notification of transactions that may change ownership or Control.
4290.440
Standards governing prior approval for a proposed transfer of Control.
4290.450
Notification of pledge of RBIC's shares.

# Restrictions on Common Control or Ownership of Two or More RBICs
4290.460
Restrictions on Common Control or ownership of two (or more) RBICs.

# Change in Structure of RBIC
4290.470
Prior approval of merger, consolidation, or reorganization of RBIC.
4290.480
Prior approval of changes to RBIC's business plan.

# Subpart G—Managing the Operations of a RBIC

# General Requirements
4290.500
Lawful operations under the Act.
4290.502
Representations to the public.
4290.503
RBIC's adoption of an approved valuation policy.
4290.504
Equipment of USDA or SBA officials.
4290.506
Safeguarding the RBIC's assets/Internal controls.
4290.507
Violations based on false filings and nonperformance of agreements with the Agency or SBA.
4290.508
Compliance with non-discrimination laws and regulations applicable to federally-assisted programs.
4290.509
Employment of USDA or SBA officials.

# Management and Compensation
4290.510
Approval of RBIC's Investment Adviser/Manager.
4290.520
Management Expenses of a RBIC.

# Cash Management by a RBIC
4290.530
Restrictions on investments of idle funds by RBICs.

# Secured Borrowing by RBICs
4290.550
Prior approval of secured third-party debt of RBICs.

# Voluntary Decrease in Regulatory Capital
4290.585
Voluntary decrease in RBIC's Regulatory Capital.

# Subpart H—Recordkeeping, Reporting, and Examination Requirements for RBICs

# Recordkeeping Requirements for RBICs
4290.600
General requirement for RBIC to maintain and preserve records.
4290.610
Required certifications for Loans and Investments.
4290.620
Requirement to obtain information from Portfolio Concerns.

# Reporting Requirements for RBICs
4290.630
Requirement for RBICs to file financial statements and supplementary information with the Agency.
4290.640
Requirement to file portfolio financing reports with the Agency.
4290.650
Requirement to report portfolio valuations to the Agency.
4290.660
Other items required to be filed by RBIC with the Agency.
4290.680
Reporting changes in RBIC not subject to prior approval.

# Examinations of RBICS by the Agency for Regulatory Compliance
4290.690
Examinations.
4290.691
Responsibilities of RBIC during examination.
4290.692
Examination fees.

# Subpart I—Financing of Enterprises by RBICs

# Determining Eligibility of an Enterprise for RBIC Financing
4290.700
Requirements concerning types of enterprises to receive financing.
4290.720
Enterprises that may be ineligible for Financing.
4290.730
Financings which constitute conflicts of interest.
4290.740
Portfolio diversification (“overline” limitation).
4290.760
How a change in size or activity of a Portfolio Concern affects the RBIC and the Portfolio Concern.

# Structuring RBIC Financing of Eligible Enterprises—Types of Financings
4290.800
Financings in the form of Equity Securities.
4290.810
Financings in the form of Loans.
4290.815
Financings in the form of Debt Securities.
4290.820
Financings in the form of guarantees.
4290.825
Purchasing securities from an underwriter or other third party.
4290.830
Minimum term of Financing.
4290.835
Exception to minimum term of Financing.
4290.840
Maximum term of Financing.
4290.845
Maximum rate of amortization on Loans and Debt Securities.
4290.850
Restrictions on redemption of Equity Securities.
4290.860
Financing fees and expense reimbursements a RBIC may receive from an Enterprise.
4290.880
Assets acquired in liquidation of Portfolio securities.

# Limitations on Disposition of Assets
4290.885
Disposition of assets to RBIC's Associates or to competitors of Portfolio Concerns.
4290.900
Management fees for services provided to an Enterprise by RBIC or its Associate.

# Subpart J—Financial Assistance for RBICs (Leverage)

# General Information About Obtaining Leverage
4290.1100
Type of Leverage and application procedures.
4290.1120
General eligibility requirements for Leverage.
4290.1130
Leverage fees payable by RBIC.
4290.1140
RBIC's acceptance of remedies under § 4290.1810.

# Maximum Amount of Leverage for Which a RBIC is Eligible
4290.1150
Maximum amount of Leverage for a RBIC.

# Conditional Commitments To Reserve Leverage for a RBIC
4290.1200
Leverage commitment to a RBIC—application procedure, amount, and term.
4290.1220
Requirement for RBIC to file financial statements at the time of request for a draw.
4290.1230
Draw-downs by RBIC under Leverage commitment.
4290.1240
Funding of RBIC's draw request through sale to third party.

# Distributions by RBICs With Outstanding Leverage
4290.1500
Restrictions on distributions to RBIC investors while RBIC has outstanding Leverage.

# Funding Leverage by Use of Trust Certificates (“TCs”)
4290.1600
Agency's authority to issue and guarantee Trust Certificates.
4290.1610
Effect of prepayment or early redemption of Leverage on a Trust Certificate.
4290.1620
Functions of agents, including Central Registration Agent, Selling Agent and Fiscal Agent.
4290.1630
Regulation of Brokers and Dealers and disclosure to purchasers of Leverage or Trust Certificates.
4290.1640
Agency's access to records of the CRA, Brokers, Dealers and Pool or Trust assemblers.

# Miscellaneous
4290.1700
Agency's transfer of interest in a RBIC's Leverage security.
4290.1710
Agency's authority to collect or compromise claims.
4290.1720
Characteristics of Agency's guarantee.

# Subpart K—RBIC's Noncompliance With Terms of Leverage
4290.1810
Events of default and the Agency's remedies for RBIC's noncompliance with terms of Debentures.

# Computation of RBIC's Capital Impairment
4290.1830
RBIC's Capital Impairment definition and general requirements.
4290.1840
Computation of RBIC's Capital Impairment Percentage.

# Subpart L—Ending Operations as a RBIC
4290.1900
Termination of participation as a RBIC.

# Subpart M—Miscellaneous
4290.1910
Non-waiver of rights or terms of Leverage security.
4290.1920
RBIC's application for exemption from a regulation in this part 4290.
4290.1930
Effect of changes in this part 4290 on transactions previously consummated.
4290.1940
Integration of this part with other regulations applicable to USDA's programs.

# Subpart N—Requirements for Operational Assistance Grants to RBICs
4290.2000
Operational Assistance grants to RBICs.

# Subpart O—Additional Requirements for Non-Leveraged Licensees and Exceptions to Regulations
4290.3000
Non-leveraged RBICs—General.
4290.3001-4290.3002
[Reserved]
4290.3003
Responsibilities for implementing Non-leveraged RBICs.
4290.3004
[Reserved]
4290.3005
Qualifications for the Non-leveraged RBIC Program.
4290.3006-4290.3009
[Reserved]
4290.3010
Application and Approval Process for RBIC licensing without Leverage.
4290.3011-4290.3014
[Reserved]
4290.3015
Evaluation and selection of Non-leveraged RBICs.
4290.3016-4290.3019
[Reserved]
4290.3020
Changes in Ownership, Structure, or Control.
4290.3021-4290.3024
[Reserved]
4290.3025
Managing the Operations of a RBIC.
4290.3026-4290.3029
[Reserved]
4290.3030
Financing of Enterprises by RBICs.
4290.3031-4290.3034
[Reserved]
4290.3035
Recordkeeping, Reporting, and Examination Requirements for RBICs.
4290.3036-4290.3039
[Reserved]
4290.3040
Financial Assistance for RBICs.
4290.3041
Events of default and the Agency's remedies for RBIC's noncompliance with terms of licensure.
4290.3042-4290.3044
[Reserved]
4290.3045
Computation of RBIC's Capital Impairment.
4290.3046-4290.3049
[Reserved]
4290.3050
Operational Assistance Grants for RBICs.
4290.3051-4290.3099
[Reserved]

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1989 and 2009cc
et seq.

# Source:
69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 4290 appear at 85 FR 16522, Mar. 24, 2020.

# Subpart A—Introduction to Part 4290
§ 4290.10
Description of the Rural Business Investment Company Program.
The Rural Business Investment Company (“RBIC”) Program is a Developmental Capital program for the purpose of promoting economic development and the creation of wealth and job opportunities in Rural Areas and among individuals living in such Areas. To this end, the Agency will select and license RBIC Applicants that will agree to address the unmet Equity Capital needs of Smaller Enterprises primarily located in Rural Areas.
§ 4290.15
Leveraged and Non-leveraged Rural Business Investment Companies.
The regulations in this part apply to rural business investment companies (RBICs) that seek leverage and to RBICs that do not seek leverage. The provisions of subparts A through N of this part apply to Leveraged RBICs and, except as indicated or as otherwise modified by subpart O of this part, to Non-leveraged RBICs. The provisions in subpart O of this part apply to Non-leveraged RBICs and, in addition, modify certain provisions in subparts A through N of this part as they apply to Non-leveraged RBICs.
[76 FR 80221, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 4290.20
Legal basis and applicability of this part 4290.
The regulations in this part implement Subtitle H of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2009cc
et seq.
) (“Act”). All RBICs must comply with all applicable regulations, accounting guidelines and valuation guidelines for RBICs.
§ 4290.30
Amendments to Act and regulations.
A RBIC is subject to all existing and future provisions of the Act and part 4290 of title 7 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
§ 4290.40
How to read this part 4290.
(a)
Center Headings.
Center headings are descriptive and are used for convenience only. They have no regulatory effect.
(b)
Capitalizing defined terms.
Terms defined in § 4290.50 have initial capitalization in this part 4290.
(c)
“You.”
The pronoun “you” as used in this part 4290 means a RBIC unless otherwise noted.
(d)
Forms.
All references in this part to forms, and instructions for their preparation, are to the current issue of such forms.
§ 4290.45
Responsibility for implementing this part 4290.
The Agency has delegated to the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), pursuant to an agreement under the Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535), the authority to implement the RBIC program, including implementing and enforcing the regulations in this part 4290. Therefore, unless specifically stated otherwise, SBA will exercise on behalf of the Agency all responsibilities and authorities assigned to the Agency in this part 4290.

# Subpart B—Definition of Terms Used in Part 4290
§ 4290.50
Definition of terms.
Act
means Subtitle H of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2009cc
et seq.
).
Administrator
means the Administrator of SBA.
Affiliate
or
Affiliates
has the meaning set forth in title 13 CFR 121.103.
Agency
means the Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBS) an agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Applicant
means any entity submitting an application to be licensed as a RBIC.
Articles
mean articles of incorporation or charter and bylaws for a Corporate RBIC, the certificate and limited partnership agreement for a Partnership RBIC, and the operating agreement or other organizational documents for an LLC RBIC.
Assistance
or
Assisted
means Financing of or management services rendered to a Portfolio Concern by or through a RBIC pursuant to the Act and this part.
Associate
of a RBIC means any of the following:
(1)(i) An officer, director, employee or agent of a Corporate RBIC;
(ii) A Control Person, employee or agent of a Partnership RBIC;
(iii) A managing member of an LLC RBIC;
(iv) An Investment Adviser/Manager of any RBIC, including any Person who contracts with a Control Person of a RBIC to be the Investment Adviser/Manager of such RBIC; or
(v) Any Person regularly serving a RBIC on retainer in the capacity of attorney at law.
(2) Any Person who owns or controls, or who has entered into an agreement to own or control, directly or indirectly, at least 10 percent of any class of stock of a Corporate RBIC or 10 percent of the membership interests of an LLC RBIC, or a limited partner's interest of at least 10 percent of the partnership capital of a Partnership RBIC. However, neither a limited partner in a Partnership RBIC nor a non-managing member in an LLC RBIC is considered an Associate if such Person is an Entity Institutional Investor whose investment in the Partnership, including commitments, represents no more than 33 percent of the capital of the RBIC and no more than five percent of such Person's net worth.
(3) Any officer, director, partner (other than a limited partner), manager, agent, or employee of any Associate described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition.
(4) Any Person that directly or indirectly Controls, or is Controlled by, or is under Common Control with, a RBIC.
(5) Any Person that directly or indirectly Controls, or is Controlled by, or is under Common Control with, any Person described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition.
(6) Any Close Relative of any Person described in paragraphs (1), (2), (4), and (5) of this definition.
(7) Any Secondary Relative of any Person described in paragraphs (1), (2), (4), and (5) of this definition.
(8) Any concern in which—
(i) Any person described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of this definition is an officer; general partner, or managing member; or
(ii) Any such Person(s) singly or collectively Control or own, directly or indirectly, an equity interest of at least 10 percent (excluding interests that such Person(s) own indirectly through ownership interests in the RBIC).
(9) Any concern in which any Person(s) described in paragraph (7) of this definition singly or collectively own (including beneficial ownership) a majority equity interest, or otherwise have Control. As used in this paragraph (9), “collectively” means together with any Person(s) described in paragraphs (1) though (7) of this definition.
(10) For the purposes of this definition, any Associate relationship described in paragraphs (1) through (7) of this definition that exists at any time within six months before or after the date that a RBIC provides Financing, will be considered to exist on the date of the Financing.
Capital Impairment
has the meaning set forth in § 4290.1830(b).
Central Registration Agent
or
CRA
means one or more agents appointed for the purpose of issuing Trust Certificates (TCs) and performing the functions enumerated in § 4290.1620 and performing similar functions for Debentures funded outside the pooling process.
Close Relative
of an individual means:
(1) A current or former spouse;
(2) A father, mother, guardian, brother, sister, son, daughter; or
(3) A father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law.
Commitment
means a written agreement between a RBIC and an Enterprise that obligates the RBIC to provide Financing (except a guarantee) to
that Enterprise in a fixed or determinable sum, by a fixed or determinable future date. In this context the term “agreement” means that there has been agreement on the principal economic terms of the Financing. The agreement may include reasonable conditions precedent to the RBIC's obligation to fund the Commitment, but these conditions must be outside the RBIC's control.
Common Control
means a condition such that two or more Persons, either through ownership, management, contract, or otherwise, are under the Control of one group or Person. Two or more RBICs are presumed to be under Common Control if they are Affiliates of each other by reason of common ownership or common officers, directors, or general partners; or if they are managed or their investments are significantly directed either by a common independent Investment Advisor/Manager or managerial contractor, or by two or more such advisors or contractors that are Affiliates of each other. This presumption may be rebutted by evidence satisfactory to the Agency.
Community Development Finance
means debt securities or equity-type investments in Rural Areas.
Conflict of interest
means a situation in which a person or entity has competing personal, professional, or financial interests that make it difficult for the person or business to act impartially. Regarding use of both grant and matching funds, Federal procurement standards prohibit transactions that involve a real or apparent conflict of interest for owners, employees, officers, agents, their immediate family members, partners or an organization which is about to employ any of the parties indicated herein, having a financial or other interest in or a tangible personal benefit from the outcome of the project; or that restrict open and free competition for unrestrained trade. Specifically, project funds may not be used for services or goods going to, or coming from, a person or entity with a real or apparent conflict of interest, including, but not limited to, owner(s) and their immediate family members.
Control
means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause, or the power to stop or hinder (also referred to as “negative Control”), the direction of the management and policies of a RBIC or other concern, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise.
Control Person
means any Person that controls a RBIC, either directly or through an intervening entity. A Control Person includes:
(1) A general partner of a Partnership RBIC;
(2) Any Person serving as a general partner (in the case of a partnership), an officer or director (in the case of a corporation), or a manager (in the case of a limited liability company) of any entity that controls a RBIC, either directly or through an intervening entity;
(3) Any Person that—
(i) Controls or owns, directly or through an intervening entity, at least 10 percent of a Partnership RBIC, a LLC RBIC, or any entity described in paragraphs (1) or (2) of this definition; and
(ii) Participates in the investment decisions of a general partner of such Partnership RBIC or of a managing member of such LLC RBIC;
(4) Any Person that controls or owns, directly or through an intervening entity, at least 50 percent of a RBIC or any entity described in paragraphs (1) or (2) of this definition.
Corporate RBIC
has the meaning set forth in the definition of RBIC in this section.
Debenture
means a debt obligation issued by RBICs pursuant to section 384E of the Act and held or guaranteed by the Agency. A Debenture may be prepaid at any time without penalty.
Debt Securities
means instruments evidencing a loan with an option or any other right to acquire Equity Securities in an Enterprise or its Affiliates, or a loan which by its terms is convertible into an equity position. Consideration must be paid for all options acquired.
Developmental Capital
means Equity Capital invested in Rural Business Concerns, with an objective of fostering economic development in Rural Areas.
Distribution
means any transfer of cash or non-cash assets to the Agency,
the Agency's agent or Trustee, or to partners in a Partnership RBIC, or to shareholders in a Corporate RBIC, or to members in an LLC RBIC. Capitalization of Retained Earnings Available for Distribution constitutes a Distribution to the RBIC's partners, shareholders, or members.
Enterprise
means a Person engaged in a business or commercial activity which charges for the goods and services it provides, whether such Person is operating for profit or is subject to any legal restrictions on the distribution of profits to its owners, members, or suppliers of its equity or quasi-equity capital. An Enterprise includes:
(1) A public, private, or cooperative for-profit or non-profit organization;
(2) A for-profit or nonprofit business controlled by an Indian tribe on a Federal or State reservation or other federally recognized Indian tribal group; or
(3) Any other Person.
Entity General Partner
has the meaning set forth in § 4290.160.
Entity Managing Member
has the meaning set forth in § 4290.160.
Equity Capital
means Equity Securities or Subordinated Debt With Equity Features.
Equity Securities
means stock of any class in a corporation, stock options, warrants, limited partnership interests in a limited partnership, membership interests in a limited liability company, or joint interests.
Farm Credit System Institution
means an institution defined in section 1.2(a) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2002(a)).
Financing
or
Financed
means outstanding financial assistance provided to a Portfolio Concern by a RBIC, whether through:
(1) Loans, with or without a right to acquire Equity Securities;
(2) Debt Securities;
(3) Equity Securities;
(3) Subordinated Debt With Equity Features;
(4) Guarantees; or
(5) Purchases of securities of an Enterprise through or from an underwriter as permitted by § 4290.825.
Guaranty Agreement
means the contract entered into by the Agency which is a guarantee backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government as to timely payment of principal and interest on Debentures and the Agency's rights in connection with such guarantee.
Includible Non-Cash Gains
means those non-cash gains (as reported on SBA Form 468 or other USDA-approved form(s)) that are realized in the form of Publicly Traded and Marketable securities or investment grade debt instruments. For purposes of this definition, investment grade debt instruments means those instruments that are rated “BBB” or “Baa”, or better, by Standard
Poor's Corporation or Moody's Investors Service, respectively. Non-rated debt may be considered to be investment grade if a RBIC obtains a written opinion from an investment banking firm acceptable to the Agency stating that the non-rated debt instrument is equivalent in risk to the issuer's investment grade debt.
Institutional Investor
means Entity Institutional Investor or Individual Institutional Investor, each defined as follows:
(1)
Entity Institutional Investors.
Any of the following entities if the entity has a net worth (exclusive of unfunded commitments from investors) of at least $1 million, or such higher amount as is specified in this paragraph (1). (
See also
§ 4290.230(c)(4) for limitations on the amount of an Entity Institutional Investor's commitment that may be included in Private Capital.)
(i) A State or National bank, Farm Credit System Institution, trust company, savings bank, or savings and loan association, including an investment pool created entirely by such bank or savings association, the deposits of which are insured under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
(ii) An insurance company.
(iii) A 1940 Act Investment Company or Business Development Company (each as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
).
(iv) A holding company of any entity described in paragraph (l)(i), (ii) or (iii) of this definition.
(v) An employee benefit or pension plan established for the benefit of employees of the Federal government, any State or political subdivision of a
State, or any agency or instrumentality of such government unit.
(vi) An employee benefit or pension plan (as defined in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (Public Law 93-406, 88 Stat. 829), excluding plans established under § 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 401(k)), as amended).
(vii) A trust, foundation or endowment exempt from Federal income taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 26 U.S.C. 1, as amended.
(viii) A corporation, partnership or other entity with a net worth (exclusive of unfunded commitments from investors) of more than $10 million.
(ix) A State, a political subdivision of a State, or an agency or instrumentality of a State or its political subdivision.
(x) An entity whose primary purpose is to manage and invest non-Federal funds on behalf of at least three Institutional Investors described in paragraphs (l)(i) through (ix) of this definition, each of whom must have at least a 10 percent ownership interest in the entity.
(xi) Any other entity that the Agency determines to be an Institutional Investor.
(2)
Individual Institutional Investor.
(i) Any of the following individuals if he/she is also a permanent resident of the United States:
(A) An individual who is an Accredited Investor (as defined in the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (15 U.S.C. 77a-77aa)) and whose commitment to the RBIC is backed by a letter of credit from a State or National bank acceptable to the Agency.
(B) An individual whose personal net worth is at least $2 million and at least ten times the amount of its commitment to the RBIC. The individual's personal net worth must not include the value of any equity in its most valuable residence.
(C) An individual whose personal net worth, not including the value of any equity in its most valuable residence, is at least $10 million.
(ii) Any individual who is not a permanent resident of the United States but who otherwise satisfies paragraph (2)(i) of this definition provided such individual has irrevocably appointed an agent within the United States for the service of process.
Investment Adviser/Manager
means any Person who furnishes advice or assistance with respect to operations of a RBIC under a written contract executed in accordance with the provisions of § 4290.510.
Lending Institution
means a concern that is operating under regulations of a state or Federal licensing, supervising, or examining body, or whose shares are publicly traded and listed on a recognized stock exchange or is listed in the Automated Quotation System of the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASDAQ) and which has assets in excess of $500 million; and which, in either case, holds itself out to the public as engaged in the making of commercial and industrial loans and whose lending operations are not for the purpose of financing its own or an Associate's sales or business operations.
Leverage
means financial assistance provided to a RBIC by the Agency either through the purchase or guaranty of a RBIC's Debentures and any other SBA financial assistance evidenced by a security of the RBIC.
Leverageable Capital
means Regulatory Capital, excluding unfunded commitments.
Leveraged RBIC
means a RBIC that received financial assistance under this part.
LLC RBIC
has the meaning set forth in the definition of RBIC in this section.
Loan
means a transaction evidenced by a debt instrument with no provision for you to acquire Equity Securities.
Loans and Investments
means Portfolio securities, assets acquired in liquidation of Portfolio securities, operating Enterprises acquired, and notes and other securities received, as set forth in the Statement of Financial Position on SBA Form 468 or other USDA-approved form(s).
Management Expenses
has the meaning set forth in § 4290.520.
NAICS Manual
means the latest issue of the North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) Manual, prepared by the Office of Management and Budget, and available from the
U.S. Government Printing Office, Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA, 15250-7954.
1940 Act Company
means a RBIC which is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
1980 Act Company
means a RBIC which is registered under the Small Business Investment Incentive Act of 1980.
Non-leveraged RBIC
means a RBIC that has not received financial assistance under this part.
Operational Assistance
means management, marketing, and other technical assistance that assists a Smaller Enterprise with its business development.
Original Issue Price
means the price paid by the purchaser for securities at the time of issuance.
Participation Agreement
means an agreement between the Agency and an Applicant licensed as a RBIC pursuant to § 4290.390 of this part, that details the RBIC's operating plan and investment criteria and requires the RBIC to operate pursuant to the Act and this part.
Partnership RBIC
has the meaning set forth in the definition of RBIC in this section.
Person
means a natural person or legal entity.
Pool
means an aggregation of guaranteed Debentures approved by the Agency.
Portfolio
means the securities representing a RBIC's total outstanding Financings of Enterprises. It does not include idle funds or assets acquired in liquidation of Portfolio securities.
Portfolio Concern
means any Enterprise Assisted by a RBIC.
Private Capital
has the meaning set forth in § 4290.230.
Publicly Traded and Marketable
means securities that are salable without restriction or that are salable within 12 months pursuant to Rule 144 (17 CFR 230.144) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by the holder thereof, and are of a class which is traded on a regulated stock exchange, or is listed in NASDAQ, or has, at a minimum, at least two market makers as defined in the relevant sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (15 U.S.C. 77b
et seq.
), and in all cases the quantity of which can be sold over a reasonable period of time without having an adverse impact upon the price of the stock.
Qualified Non-private Funds
means:
(1) Funds directly or indirectly invested in any RBIC or Applicant on or after May 13, 2002 by any Federal agency other than USDA under a provision of law explicitly mandating the inclusion of those funds in the definition of “Private Capital;” and
(2) The aggregate amount of funds invested in any Applicant or RBIC by one or more States, or any political subdivisions, agencies or instrumentalities thereof, including any guarantee extended by such entities.
Regulatory Capital
means Private Capital, excluding non-cash assets contributed to a RBIC or an Applicant unless such assets have been converted to cash or have been approved by the Agency for inclusion in Regulatory Capital. For purposes of this definition, sales of contributed non-cash assets with recourse or borrowings against such assets shall not constitute a conversion to cash.
Relevant Capital Finance
means Equity Capital in Rural Business Concerns or benefiting Rural Areas.
Retained Earnings Available for Distribution
means Undistributed Net Realized Earnings less any Unrealized Depreciation on Loans and Investments (as reported on SBA Form 468 or other USDA-approved form(s)), and represents the amount that a RBIC may distribute to investors as a profit Distribution, or transfer to Private Capital.
Rural area
means any area of a State not in a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants according to the most recent decennial Census of the United States (decennial Census), not in the urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I), as well as any area that has been determined to be “rural in character” by the Under Secretary for Rural Development, or as otherwise identified in this definition.
(1) An area that is attached to the urbanized area of a city or town with
more than 50,000 inhabitants by a contiguous area of urbanized census blocks that is not more than 2 census blocks wide. Applicants from such an area should work with their Rural Development State Office to request a determination of whether their project is located in a rural area under this provision.
(2) For the purposes of this definition, cities and towns are incorporated population centers with definite boundaries, local self government, and legal powers set forth in a charter granted by the State.
(3) For the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the island is considered rural and eligible for Business Programs assistance, except for the San Juan Census Designated Place (CDP) and any other CDP with greater than 50,000 inhabitants. CDPs with greater than 50,000 inhabitants, other than the San Juan CDP, may be determined to be eligible if they are “not urban in character.”
(4) For the State of Hawaii, all areas within the State are considered rural and eligible for Business Programs assistance, except for the Honolulu CDP within the County of Honolulu.
(5) For the purpose of defining a rural area in the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the USDA shall determine what constitutes rural and rural area based on available population data.
(6) The determination that an area is “rural in character” will be made by the Under Agency of Rural Development. The process to request a determination under this provision is outlined in paragraph (6)(ii) of this definition.
(i) The determination that an area is “rural in character” under this definition will apply to areas that are within:
(A) An urbanized area that has two points on its boundary that are at least 40 miles apart, which is not contiguous or adjacent to a city or town that has a population of greater than 150,000 inhabitants or the urbanized area of such a city or town; or
(B) An urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town of greater than 50,000 inhabitants that is within one-quarter mile of a rural area.
(ii) Units of local government may petition the Under Agency of Rural Development for a “rural in character” designation by submitting a petition to both the appropriate Rural Development State Director and the Rural Business-Cooperative Service Administrator of USDA on behalf of the Under Agency. The petition shall document how the area meets the requirements of paragraph (6)(i)(A) or (B) of this definition and discuss why the petitioner believes the area is “rural in character,” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, and topography and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receiving a petition, the Under Agency will consult with the applicable Governor or leader in a similar position and request comments to be submitted within 5 business days, unless such comments were submitted with the petition. The Under Agency will release to the public a notice of a petition filed by a unit of local government not later than 30 days after receipt of the petition by way of publication in a local newspaper and posting on the Agency's Web site, and the Under Agency will make a determination not less than 15 days, but no more than 60 days, after the release of the notice. Upon a negative determination, the Under Agency will provide to the petitioner an opportunity to appeal a determination to the Under Agency, and the petitioner will have 10 business days to appeal the determination and provide further information for consideration.
Rural Business Concern
means an Enterprise that primarily operates in a Rural Area.
Rural Business Concern Investment
means a Financing in a Rural Business Concern at the time of the initial Financing or if the initial Financing is to facilitate a relocation from a Non-rural Area to a Rural Area after that initial Financing.
Rural Business Investment Company
or
RBIC
means a corporation organized as required by § 4290.100 (Corporate RBIC), a limited partnership organized as required by §§ 4290.100 and 4290.160 (Partnership RBIC), or a limited liability company organized as required by §§ 4290.100 and 4290.160 (LLC RBIC), that
has been licensed as a RBIC pursuant to § 4290.390.
SBA
means the U.S. Small Business Administration, an agency of the Federal Government headquartered at 409 Third Street, SW, Washington, DC 20416.
Secondary Relative
of an individual means:
(1) A grandparent, grandchild, or any other ancestor or lineal descendent who is not a Close Relative;
(2) An uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, or first cousin; or
(3) A spouse of any person described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition.
Small Business Investment Company
or
SBIC
means a Licensee, as that term is defined in 13 CFR 107.50.
Smaller Enterprise
means any Rural Business Concern that, together with its Affiliates and by itself—
(1) Meets the size standard established by SBA in 13 CFR 121.201, corresponding to each type of economic activity or industry described in the NAICS Manual for the industry in which it is primarily engaged on the date on which the Financing is made (the term “primarily engaged” for purposes of this definition is defined in 13 CFR 121.107); or
(2) Has—
(i) A net financial worth of not more than $6,000,000 as of the date on which the Financing is made; and
(ii) An average net income for the two year period preceding the date on which the Financing is made of not more than $2,000,000, after Federal income taxes (excluding any carryover losses), except that, for purposes of this clause, if the Rural Business Concern is not required by law to pay Federal income taxes at the enterprise level, but is required to pass income through to the shareholders, partners, beneficiaries, or other equitable owners of the Rural Business Concern, its net income is determined by allowing a deduction in an amount equal to the total of—
(A) If it is not required by law to pay State (and local, if any) income taxes at the enterprise level, the net income (determined without regard to this paragraph (2)(ii)(A)) multiplied by the marginal State income tax rate (or by the combined State and local income tax rates, as applicable) that would have applied if the Rural Business Concern were a corporation; and
(B) The net income (so determined) less any deduction for State (and local) income taxes calculated under paragraph (2)(ii)(A) of this definition multiplied by the marginal Federal income tax rate that would have applied if the Rural Business Concern were a corporation.
Smaller Enterprise Investment
means a Financing in the form of Equity Capital in an Enterprise that qualified as a Smaller Enterprise at the time of the initial Financing.
State
means each of the 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia.
Subordinated Debt
means a debt of a debtor, common to more than one creditor, that is the subject of an agreement between two groups of creditors (whose claims would otherwise be in parity) setting forth the circumstances under which the claims of one group (senior creditors) shall be satisfied out of the resources of the common debtor that would otherwise be available for the payment of the claims of the other group (junior creditors).
Subordinated Debt With Equity Features
means a Subordinated Debt obligation that gives to the junior creditor such additional compensation as warrants, conversion rights, any other interest in the debtor's equity, profits, increased future revenue, or a royalty interest.
Trust
means a legal entity created for the purpose of holding guaranteed Debentures and the guaranty agreement related thereto, receiving, holding and making any related payments, and accounting for such payments.
Trust Certificate Rate
means a fixed rate determined at the time Debentures are pooled.
Trust Certificates (TCs)
means certificates issued by the Agency, the Agency's agent or Trustee and representing
ownership of all or a fractional part of a Trust or Pool of Debentures.
Trustee
means the trustee or trustees of a Trust.
Undistributed Net Realized Earnings
means Undistributed Realized Earnings less Non-cash Gains/Income, each as reported on SBA Form 468 or other USDA-approved form(s).
Unrealized Appreciation
means the amount by which a RBIC's valuation of each of its Loans and Investments, as determined by its board of directors, general partner(s), or managing member(s) in accordance with the RBIC's valuation policies, exceeds the cost basis thereof.
Unrealized Depreciation
means the amount by which a RBIC's valuation of each of its Loans and Investments, as determined by its board of directors, general partner(s), or managing member(s) in accordance with the RBIC's valuation policies, is below the cost basis thereof.
Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Securities Held
means the sum of the Unrealized Appreciation and Unrealized Depreciation on all of a RBIC's Loans and Investments, less estimated future income tax expense or estimated realizable future income tax benefit, as appropriate.
Urban Area
means an area containing a city (or its equivalent), or any equivalent geographic area determined by the Census Bureau and adopted by the Agency for purposes of this definition (about which the Agency will publish a document in the
Federal Register
from time to time), which had a population of over 150,000 in the most recent decennial Census and the urbanized areas containing or adjacent to that city, both as determined by the Bureau of the Census for the most recent decennial Census.
Urban Area Investment
means a Financing in an Enterprise that primarily operates in an Urban Area at the time of the initial Financing.
USDA
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture, a department of the Federal government headquartered at 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80221, Dec. 23, 2011; 79 FR 76018, Dec. 19, 2014; 80 FR 9914, Feb. 24, 2015; 85 FR 16522, Mar. 24, 2020; 87 FR 38645, June 29, 2022]

# Subpart C—Qualifications for the RBIC Program

# Organizing a RBIC
§ 4290.100
Business form.
(a)
Newly-formed for-profit.
An Applicant for a RBIC license must be a newly formed for-profit entity or, subject to § 4290.150, a newly formed for-profit subsidiary of an existing entity. It must be organized under the law of a State. An Applicant may be organized as a corporation (“Corporate RBIC”), a limited partnership (“Partnership RBIC”), or a limited liability company (“LLC RBIC”).
(b)
Purpose.
An Applicant must be organized solely for the purpose of performing the functions and conducting the activities contemplated under the Act: making Developmental Capital investments and providing Operational Assistance to eligible Smaller Enterprises.
(c)
Articles.
The RBIC's Articles—
(1) Must specify in general terms:
(i) The purposes for which the RBIC is formed;
(ii) The name of the RBIC;
(iii) The Rural Area or Areas in which it will operate;
(iv) The place where the RBIC's headquarters will be located; and
(v) The amount and classes of the RBIC's ownership interests.
(2) May contain any other provisions consistent with the Act that the RBIC may determine is appropriate to adopt to regulate its business and the conduct of its affairs.
(3) Are subject to the Agency's approval.
(d)
Duration
—(1)
Partnership RBICs.
If you are a Partnership RBIC:
(i) You must have a minimum duration of 10 years, or two years following the maturity of your last-maturing Leverage security, whichever is longer. After 10 years, if all Leverage has been repaid or redeemed and all amounts due the Agency, its agent, or Trustee
have been paid, the Partnership RBIC may be terminated by a vote of your partners;
(ii) None of your general partner(s) may be removed or replaced by your limited partners without prior written approval of the Agency;
(iii) Any transferee of, or successor in interest to, your general partner shall have only the rights and liabilities of a limited partner prior to the Agency's written approval of such transfer or succession; and
(iv) You must incorporate all the provisions in this paragraph (d) in your limited partnership agreement.
(2)
LLC RBICs.
If you are a LLC RBIC, you must have a minimum duration of 10 years, or two years following the maturity of your last-maturing Leverage security, whichever is longer. After 10 years, if all Leverage has been repaid or redeemed and all amounts due the Agency, its agent, or Trustee have been paid, the LLC RBIC may be terminated by a vote of your members.
(3)
Corporate RBICs.
If you are a Corporate RBIC, you must have a duration of not less than 30 years unless earlier dissolved by the shareholders, except that the Corporate RBIC must not dissolve until at least two years following the maturity of your last-maturing Leverage security.
§ 4290.110
Qualified management.
An Applicant must show, to the satisfaction of the Agency, that its current or proposed management team is qualified and has the knowledge, experience, and capability in Community Development Finance or Relevant Capital Finance, necessary for investing in the types of Enterprises contemplated by the Act, regulations in this part, and its business plan. In determining whether an Applicant's current or proposed management team has sufficient qualifications, the Agency will consider information provided by the Applicant and third parties concerning the background, capability, education, training and reputation (and any other managerial aspect identified by the USDA in a
Federal Register
notice) of its general partners, managers, officers, key personnel, and investment committee and governing board members. The Applicant must designate at least one individual as the official responsible for contact with the Agency.
[76 FR 80222, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 4290.120
Plan to invest in Rural Areas.
An Applicant must agree that if licensed as a RBIC, it will make Developmental Capital investments in Enterprises that will create wealth and job opportunities in Rural Areas and among individuals living in those areas.
§ 4290.130
Identified Rural Areas.
A RBIC must identify the specific Rural Area or Areas in which it intends to make Developmental Capital investments and provide Operational Assistance under the RBIC program. The scope of the identified areas must be consistent with Applicant's business plan, especially as the plan relates to the Applicant's ability to operate actively, soundly, and profitably in such areas.
§ 4290.140
Approval of initial Management Expenses.
A RBIC must have its Management Expenses approved by the Agency at the time it is licensed. (
See
§ 4290.520 for the definition of Management Expenses.)
§ 4290.150
Management and ownership diversity requirement.
(a)
Diversity requirement.
You must have diversity between management and ownership in order to be licensed as a RBIC and to maintain your license. To establish diversity, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Percentage ownership requirement.
No Person or group of Persons who are Affiliates of one another may own or control, directly or indirectly, more than 70 percent of your Regulatory Capital or your Leverageable Capital.
(c)
Non-affiliation requirement.
At least 30 percent of your Regulatory Capital and Leverageable Capital must be owned and controlled by Persons unaffiliated with your management and unaffiliated with each other, and whose investments are significant in dollar and percentage terms as determined by the Agency. Such Persons must not be
your Associates (except for their status as your shareholders, limited partners or members) and must not Control, be Controlled by, or be under Common Control with any of your Associates. A single “acceptable” Institutional Investor may be substituted for two or three of the three investors who are otherwise required. The following Institutional Investors are “acceptable” for this purpose:
(1) Entities whose overall activities are regulated and periodically examined by State, Federal or other governmental authorities satisfactory to the Agency;
(2) Entities listed on the New York Stock Exchange;
(3) Entities that are publicly-traded and that meet both the minimum numerical listing standards and the corporate governance listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange;
(4) Public or private employee pension funds;
(5) Trusts, foundations, or endowments, but only if exempt from Federal income taxation; and
(6) Other Institutional Investors satisfactory to the Agency.
(d)
Voting requirement.
The investors relied upon to satisfy the diversity requirement may not delegate their voting rights to any Person who is your Associate, or who Controls, is Controlled by, or is under Common Control with any of your Associates, without prior approval by the Agency.
(e)
Requirement to maintain diversity.
You must maintain management-ownership diversity while you are a RBIC. If, at any time, you no longer have the required management-ownership diversity, you must:
(1) Notify the Agency within 10 days; and
(2) Re-establish diversity within six months after loss of diversity.
§ 4290.160
Special rules for Partnership RBICs and LLC RBICs.
(a)
Entity General Partner or Entity Managing Member.
(1) A general partner of a Partnership RBIC which is a corporation, limited liability company or partnership (an “Entity General Partner”), or a managing member of an LLC RBIC which is a corporation, limited liability company, or partnership (an “Entity Managing Member”) shall be organized under State law solely for the purpose of serving as the general partner or managing member of one or more RBICs, and shall be organized for profit.
(2) The Agency must approve any person who will serve as an officer, director, manager, or general partner of the Entity General Partner or Entity Managing Member and of an entity that Controls the Entity General Partner or Entity Managing Member. This provision must be stated in an Entity General Partner's or Entity Managing Member's articles of incorporation or charter and bylaws if a corporation, operating agreement if a limited liability company, or partnership agreement if a partnership.
(3) An Entity General Partner or Entity Managing Member is subject to the same examination and reporting requirements as a RBIC under sections 384K and 384L of the Act. The restrictions and obligations imposed upon a RBIC by §§ 4290.1810, 4290.30, 4290.410 through 4290.450, 4290.470, 4290.500, 4290.510, 4290.585, 4290.600, 4290.680, 4290.690 through 4290.692, and 4290.1910 apply also to an Entity General Partner or Entity Managing Member of a RBIC.
(4) The general partner(s) of your Entity General Partner(s) or Entity Managing Member(s) will be considered your general partner.
(5) If your Entity General Partner or Entity Managing Member is a limited partnership, its limited partners may be considered your Control Person(s) if they meet the definition for Control Person in § 4290.50.
(b)
Liability of general partner of Partnership RBIC.
Subject to section 384O(b) of the Act, your general partner(s) is not liable solely by reason of its status as a general partner for repayment of any Leverage or debts you owe to the Agency unless the Agency, in the exercise of reasonable investment prudence, and with regard to your financial soundness, determines otherwise prior to the purchase or guaranty of your Leverage. The conditions specified in § 4290.1810 and § 4290.1910 apply to all general partners.
(c)
Special Leverage requirement for Partnership RBICs and LLC RBICs.
Before your first issuance of Leverage, you must furnish the Agency with evidence that you qualify as a partnership for tax purposes, either by a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service or by an opinion of counsel.
§ 4290.165
Obligations of Control Persons.
All Control Persons are bound by the provisions of sections 384O and 384P of the Act and by the conflict-of-interest rules under § 4290.730. The term RBIC, as used in §§ 4290.30, 4290.460, and 4290.680, includes all of the RBIC's Control Persons.

# Capitalizing a RBIC
§ 4290.200
Adequate capital for RBICs.
You must meet the requirements of §§ 4290.210 through 4290.230 in order to qualify as a RBIC.
[76 FR 80222, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 4290.210
Minimum capital requirements for RBICs.
(a)
General Rule.
Unless otherwise specified in a
Federal Register
notice, you must have Regulatory Capital of at least $10,000,000, or such lesser amount (but not less than $5,000,000) and Leverageable Capital of at least $500,000, to become a RBIC.
(b)
Exception.
(1) The Agency in its sole discretion and based on a showing of special circumstances and good cause may license an Applicant with Regulatory Capital of at least $2,500,000, but only if the Applicant:
(i) Has satisfied all eligibility criteria for licensing as a RBIC as described in § 4290.390(a) of this part, except the capital requirement specified in paragraph (a)(1) of that section, as determined solely by the Agency;
(ii) Has a viable business plan reasonably projecting profitable operations; and
(iii) Has a reasonable timetable for achieving Regulatory Capital of at least $10,000,000.
(2) A RBIC licensed under this exception is not eligible to receive Leverage until it has complied with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Time frame.
Each RBIC shall have a period of 2 years to meet the capital requirements set forth in this section.
(d)
Closing.
Each RBIC may conduct more than one closing to raise the specific amount of Regulatory Capital that the Applicant had projected in its application that it would raise (see § 4290.310(b)). One or more closings may take place subsequent to licensing as an RBIC to raise the difference between the required Regulatory Capital as provided under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the specific amount of Regulatory Capital that the Applicant had projected to raise in its application.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80222, Dec. 23, 2011; 85 FR 16522, Mar. 24, 2020]
§ 4290.230
Private Capital for RBICs.
(a)
General.
Private Capital means the contributed capital of a RBIC, plus unfunded binding commitments by Institutional Investors (including commitments evidenced by a promissory note) to contribute capital to a RBIC.
(b)
Contributed capital.
For purposes of this section, contributed capital means the paid-in capital and paid-in surplus of a Corporate RBIC, the members' contributed capital of a LLC RBIC, or the partners' contributed capital of a Partnership RBIC, in each case subject to the limitations in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Exclusions from Private Capital.
Private Capital does not include:
(1) Funds borrowed by an Applicant or a RBIC from any source.
(2) Funds obtained through the issuance of Leverage.
(3) Funds obtained directly or indirectly from the Federal government or any State (including by a political subdivision, agency or instrumentality of the Federal government or a State), except that the following categories of such funds are not excluded from Private Capital—
(i) Funds obtained directly or indirectly from the business revenues (excluding any governmental appropriation) of any federally-chartered or government-sponsored enterprise established prior to May 13, 2002;
(ii) Funds invested by an employee welfare benefit plan or pension plan; and
(iii) Qualified Non-private Funds in an amount not to exceed 33 percent of the total Private Capital of any Applicant or RBIC,
provided, however,
that in no event may any investor or investors of Qualified Non-private Funds have the power to Control, directly or indirectly, the management, board of directors, general partners, or members of the RBIC.
(4) Any portion of an unfunded commitment from an Institutional Investor with a net worth of less than $10 million that exceeds 10 percent of such Institutional Investor's net worth.
(5) An unfunded commitment from an investor if the Agency determines that the collectability of the commitment is questionable.
(d)
Non-cash capital contributions.
Capital contributions in a form other than cash are subject to the limitations in § 4290.240 of this part.
(e)
Contributions with borrowed funds.
You may not accept any capital contribution made with funds borrowed by a Person seeking to own an equity interest (whether direct or indirect, beneficial or of record) of at least 10 percent of your Private Capital. This exclusion does not apply if:
(1) Such Person's net worth is at least twice the amount borrowed; or
(2) The Agency gives its prior written approval of the capital contribution.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 16523, Mar. 24, 2020]
§ 4290.240
Limitations on non-cash capital contributions in Private Capital.
Non-cash capital contributions to a RBIC or Applicant are included in Private Capital only if they are approved by the Agency and they fall into one of the following categories:
(a) Direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States having a term of no more than one year.
(b) Services rendered or to be rendered to you, priced at no more than their fair market value.
(c) Other non-cash assets approved by the Agency.

# Subpart D—Application and Approval Process for RBIC Licensing
§ 4290.300
When and how to apply for a RBIC License.
(a)
Notice of Funds Availability (“NOFA”).
The Agency will publish a NOFA in the
Federal Register
advising potential applicants of the availability of funds for the RBIC program and inviting the submission of applications. The NOFA may specify limitations, special rules, procedures, and restrictions for a particular funding round. When submitting its application, an Applicant must comply with both this part 4290 and any requirements specified in the NOFA, including the opening and closing dates for submission of an application.
(b)
Application form.
An Applicant must apply for a RBIC license using an appropriate application packet provided by the Agency. Upon receipt of a completed application packet, the Agency may request clarifying or technical information on the materials submitted as part of the application.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80222, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 4290.310
Contents of application.
Each Applicant must submit a complete application, including the following:
(a)
Management team experience.
The Applicant must provide information generally as to the background, capability, education, reputation and training of its management team, including general partners, managers, officers, key personnel, and investment committee and governing board members. The Applicant also must provide information specifically on these individuals' qualifications and reputation in the areas of Community Development Finance and/or Relevant Capital Finance, including the impact of these individuals' activities in these areas.
(b)
Amount of Regulatory Capital.
The Applicant must indicate the amount of Regulatory Capital it has raised or proposes to raise, which amount must satisfy the requirements of § 4290.210(a) of this part, unless the Applicant indicates that it has raised or proposes to
raise at least $2,500,000 and is applying for an exception pursuant to § 4290.210(b) of this part and includes in its application—
(1) A showing of special circumstances and good cause for the exception:
(2) Will satisfy all eligibility criteria for licensing as a RBIC as set forth in § 4290.390(a) of this part, except the capital requirement specified in paragraph (a)(1) of that section, as determined solely by the Agency;
(3) Has a viable business plan reasonably projecting profitable operations; and
(4) Has a reasonable timetable for achieving Regulatory Capital in an amount that satisfies the requirements of § 4290.210(a) of this part.
(c)
Comprehensive business plan.
The Applicant must submit a comprehensive business plan covering at least a five-year period, addressing the specific items described in § 4290.320, and which demonstrates that the Applicant has the capacity to operate successfully as a RBIC.
§ 4290.320
Contents of comprehensive business plan.
(a)
Plan for Developmental Capital investing.
The Applicant must describe its plans and strategies for how it proposes to make successful Developmental Capital investments in identified Rural Areas.
(b)
Working with Rural Area community-based organizations.
The Applicant must describe how it intends to work with community-based organizations and local entities (including local economic development companies, local lenders, and local investors) in order to facilitate its Developmental Capital investments.
(c)
Market analysis.
The Applicant must provide an analysis of the Rural Areas in which it intends to focus its Developmental Capital investments and Operational Assistance to Smaller Enterprises, demonstrating that the Applicant understands the market and the unmet Equity Capital needs in such areas and how its activities will meet these unmet needs and will have a positive economic impact on those areas. The Applicant also must analyze the extent of the demand in such areas for Developmental Capital investments and any factors or trends that may affect the Applicant's ability to make effective Developmental Capital investments.
(d)
Operational capacity and investment strategies.
The Applicant must submit information concerning its policies and procedures for underwriting and approving its Developmental Capital investments, monitoring its portfolio, and maintaining internal controls and operations.
(e)
Plan to raise Regulatory Capital.
The Applicant must include a detailed description of how it plans to raise its Regulatory Capital if it has not yet done so at the time of application. The Applicant must discuss its potential sources of Regulatory Capital, the estimated timing for raising such funds, and the extent of the expressions of interest to commit such funds to the Applicant.
(f)
Plan for providing Operational Assistance.
The Applicant must describe how it plans to use its grant funds to provide Operational Assistance to Smaller Enterprises in which it makes or expects to make Developmental Capital investments. Its plan must address the types of Operational Assistance it proposes to provide, and how it plans to provide the Operational Assistance through the use of licensed professionals, when necessary, either from its own staff or from outside entities.
(g)
Projected amount of investment in Rural Areas.
The Applicant must describe how it proposes to meet the requirements set forth in § 4290.700. An Applicant must project the amount of its total Regulatory Capital and Leverage that it proposes to invest in Smaller Enterprises and in Rural Business Concerns that are not Smaller Enterprises. The Applicant also must describe the amount of its total Regulatory Capital and Leverage that it proposes to invest in Urban Area Investments.
(h)
Projected impact.
The Applicant must describe the criteria and economic measurements to be used to evaluate whether and to what extent it has met the objectives of the RBIC program. It must include:
(1) A description of the extent to which it will concentrate its Developmental Capital investments and Operational Assistance activities in identified Rural Areas;
(2) An estimate of the economic development benefits to be created within identified Rural Areas over the next five years or more as a result of its activities;
(3) A description of the criteria to be used to measure the benefits created as a result of its activities;
(4) A discussion about the amount of such benefits created that it will consider to constitute successfully meeting the objectives of the RBIC program.
(i)
Affiliates and business relationships.
The Applicant must submit information describing the management and financial strength of any parent or holding entity, affiliated firm or entity, or any other firm or entity essential to the success of the Applicant's business plan.
§ 4290.330
Guarantee fee.
In cases of Leveraged Applications, the Applicant must pay to the Agency an issuance fee for each grant or debenture guarantee. The Agency may charge such fees as the Agency considers appropriate, so long as those fees are proportionally equal for each rural business investment company, with respect to any guarantee or grant issued under this subchapter.
[85 FR 16523, Mar. 24, 2020]

# Subpart E—Evaluation and Selection of RBICs
§ 4290.340
Evaluation and selection—general.
The Administrator of RBS and the Administrator on behalf of SBA, in their sole discretion, will evaluate and select an Applicant to participate in the RBIC program based on a review of the Applicant's application materials, interviews or site visits with the Applicant (if any), and background investigations conducted by the Agency and other Federal agencies. The Agency's evaluation and selection process is intended to—
(a) Ensure that Applicants are evaluated on a competitive basis and in a fair and consistent manner;
(b) Take into consideration the unique proposals presented by Applicants;
(c) Ensure that each Applicant licensed as a RBIC can fulfill successfully the goals of its comprehensive business plan; and
(d) Ensure that the Agency selects Applicants in such a way as to promote nationwide geographic distribution of Developmental Capital investments.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 16523, Mar. 24, 2020]
§ 4290.350
Eligibility and completeness.
The Agency will not consider any application that is not complete or that is submitted by an Applicant that does not meet the eligibility criteria described in subpart C of this part. The Agency at its sole discretion, may request from an Applicant additional information concerning eligibility criteria or easily completed portions of the application in order to facilitate consideration of its application.
§ 4290.360
Initial review of Applicant's management team's qualifications.
The Agency will review the information submitted by the Applicant concerning the qualifications of the Applicant's management team to determine in its sole discretion whether the team meets the minimum requirements deemed by the Agency to be critical to successful capital investing. In making this determination, the Agency will consider, among other things, the general business reputation of the owners and managers of the Applicant. Only those Applicants considered to have a management team qualified for venture capital investing will be further considered for selection as a RBIC.
§ 4290.370
Evaluation criteria.
Of those Applicants whose management team is considered qualified for venture capital investing and who have submitted an eligible and complete application, the Administrator of RBS and the Administrator on behalf of SBA, in their sole discretion, will evaluate and select an Applicant for
participation in the RBIC program by considering the following criteria:
(a) Whether the Applicant's management team has the knowledge, experience, and capability necessary to manage a sound, economically viable RBIC and to comply with the Act;
(b) The quality of the Applicant's comprehensive business plan in terms of meeting the objectives of the RBIC program;
(c) The likelihood that the Applicant will achieve the goals described in its comprehensive business plan;
(d) The strength and likelihood for success of the Applicant's operations and investment strategies, including whether the Applicant has projected adequate profitability and financial soundness;
(e) Whether the Applicant will be able to operate soundly and profitably over the long term;
(f) Whether the Applicant will be able to operate actively in its identified Rural Areas in accordance with its business plan;
(g) The need for Developmental Capital investments in the Rural Areas in which the Applicant intends to invest;
(h) The extent to which the Applicant will concentrate its activities on serving Smaller Enterprises located in the Rural Area in which it intends to invest, including the ratio of resources that it proposes to invest in such Enterprises as compared to other Enterprises;
(i) The Applicant's demonstrated understanding of the markets in the Rural Areas in which it intends to focus its activities;
(j) The likelihood that and the time frame within which the Applicant will be able to raise the Regulatory Capital it proposes to raise for its investments;
(k) The strength of the Applicant's proposal to provide Operational Assistance to Smaller Enterprises in which it plans to invest;
(l) The extent to which the activities proposed by the Applicant will promote economic development and the creation of wealth and job opportunities in the Rural Areas in which it intends to invest and among individuals living in such Areas; and
(m) The strength of the Applicant's application compared to applications submitted by other Applicants intending to invest in the same or proximate Rural Areas.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 16523, Mar. 24, 2020]
§ 4290.380
Selection.
From among the Applicants that have submitted eligible and complete applications, the Administrator of RBS and the Administrator on behalf of SBA, in their sole discretion, will select some, all, or none of such Applicants to participate in the RBIC program. Selection will entitle the Applicant to proceed with obtaining a license as a RBIC but only if the Applicant also meets the conditions set forth in § 4290.390.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 16523, Mar. 24, 2020]
§ 4290.390
Licensing as a RBIC.
(a)
Eligibility criteria for licensing as a RBIC.
Each selected Applicant must meet the following conditions before it is eligible to be licensed as a RBIC:
(1) Raise the specific amount of Regulatory Capital that the Applicant had projected in its application that it would raise (see § 4290.210 for additional information).
(2) Raise $500,000 in Leverageable Capital as required by § 4290.210;
(3) Complete and submit to the Agency all legal and other documentation concerning the RBIC, including but not limited to its Articles and updated financial information concerning the RBIC in order to qualify for a Leverage commitment; and
(4) Enter into a Participation Agreement with the Agency.
(b)
Licensing as a RBIC.
If the selected Applicant has satisfactorily met all the conditions specified in paragraph (a) of this section, as determined within the sole discretion of the Agency, then the Administrator of RBS and the Administrator on behalf of SBA will license the Applicant as a RBIC.
(c)
Failure to meet eligibility criteria for licensing.
Each selected Applicant that does not meet the eligibility criteria for licensing described in paragraph (a) of this section, within a time period specified by the Agency, will not be licensed as a RBIC. Failure to meet any
of those conditions, including but not limited to failure to raise the projected Regulatory Capital within the required time period, will cause the Applicant's selection to lapse. The Agency will not restore the selection of such an Applicant after the expiration of that time period. After the expiration of that time period, an Applicant that is not licensed as a RBIC must cease to represent itself as a participant or potential participant in the RBIC program.
(d)
Effect of a RBIC license.
The Participation Agreement executed by the Agency with each Applicant licensed as a RBIC will include the following:
(1) Approval to operate as a RBIC under the Act;
(2) A commitment of Leverage; and
(3) An Operational Assistance grant award.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 77 FR 4885, Feb. 1, 2012; 85 FR 16523, Mar. 24, 2020]

# Subpart F—Changes in Ownership, Structure, or Control

# Changes in Control or Ownership of RBIC
§ 4290.400
Changes in ownership of 10 percent or more of RBIC but no change of Control.
You must obtain the Agency's prior written approval for any proposed transfer or issuance of ownership interests that results in the ownership (beneficial or of record) by any Person, or group of Persons acting in concert, of at least 10 percent of any class of your stock, partnership capital or membership interests.
§ 4290.410
Changes in Control of RBIC (through change in ownership or otherwise).
You must obtain the Agency's prior written approval for any proposed transaction or event that results in Control by any Person(s) not previously approved by the Agency.
§ 4290.420
Prohibition on exercise of ownership or Control rights in RBIC before approval.
Without the Agency's prior written approval, no change of ownership or Control may take effect and no officer, director, employee or other Person acting on your behalf shall:
(a) Register on your books any transfer of ownership interest to the proposed new owner(s);
(b) Permit the proposed new owner(s) to exercise voting rights with respect to such ownership interest (including directly or indirectly procuring or voting any proxy, consent or authorization as to such voting rights at any meeting of shareholders, partners or members);
(c) Permit the proposed new owner(s) to participate in any manner in the conduct of your affairs (including exercising control over your books, records, funds or other assets; participating directly or indirectly in any disposition thereof; or serving as an officer, director, partner, manager, employee or agent); or
(d) Allow ownership or Control to pass to another Person.
§ 4290.430
Notification of transactions that may change ownership or Control.
You must promptly notify the Agency as soon as you have knowledge of transactions or events that may result in a transfer of Control or ownership of at least 10 percent of your Regulatory Capital. If the effect of a particular transaction or event is unclear, you must report all pertinent facts to the Agency.
§ 4290.440
Standards governing prior approval for a proposed transfer of Control.
The Agency's approval of a proposed transfer of Control is contingent upon full disclosure of the real parties in interest, the source of funds for the new owners' interest, and other data requested by the Agency. As a condition of approving a proposed transfer of control, the Agency may:
(a) Require an increase in your Regulatory Capital;
(b) Require the new owners or the transferee's Control Person(s) to assume, in writing, personal liability for your Leverage, effective only in the event of their direct or indirect participation in any transfer of Control not approved by the Agency; or
(c) Require compliance with any other conditions set by the Agency, including compliance with the requirements for minimum capital and management-ownership diversity in effect at such time for new RBICs.
§ 4290.450
Notification of pledge of RBIC's shares.
(a) You must notify the Agency in writing, within 30 calendar days, of the terms of any transaction in which:
(1) Any Person, or group of Persons acting in concert, pledges shares of your stock (or equivalent ownership interests) as collateral for indebtedness; and
(2) The shares pledged constitute at least 10 percent of your Regulatory Capital.
(b) If the transaction creates a change of ownership or Control, you must comply with § 4290.400 or § 4290.410, as appropriate.

# Restrictions on Common Control or Ownership of Two or More RBICs
§ 4290.460
Restrictions on Common Control or ownership of two (or more) RBICs.
Without the Agency's prior written approval, you must not have an officer, director, manager, Control Person, or owner (with a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 10 percent) who is also:
(a) An officer, director, manager, Control Person, or owner (with a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 10 percent) of another RBIC; or
(b) An officer or director of any Person that directly or indirectly controls, or is controlled by, or is under Common Control with, another RBIC.

# Change in Structure of RBIC
§ 4290.470
Prior approval of merger, consolidation, or reorganization of RBIC.
You may not merge, consolidate, change form of organization (corporation, limited liability company, or limited partnership) or reorganize without the Agency's prior written approval. Any such merger, consolidation, or change of form is subject to § 4290.440.
§ 4290.480
Prior approval of changes to RBIC's business plan.
Without the Agency's prior written approval, no change in your business plan, upon which you were selected and licensed as a RBIC, may take effect.

# Subpart G—Managing the Operations of a RBIC

# General Requirements
§ 4290.500
Lawful operations under the Act.
You must engage only in the activities permitted by the Act and in no other activities.
§ 4290.502
Representations to the public.
You may not represent or imply to anyone that the Agency, the U.S. Government, or any of its agencies or officers has approved any ownership interests you have issued, obligations you have incurred, or Financings you have made. You must include a statement to this effect in any solicitation provided to investors. Example: You may not represent or imply that “USDA stands behind the RBIC” or that “Your capital is safe because the Agency's experts review proposed investments to make sure they are safe for the RBIC.”
§ 4290.503
RBIC's adoption of an approved valuation policy.
(a)
Valuation guidelines.
You must prepare, document and report the valuations of your Loans and Investments in accordance with the Valuation Guidelines for SBICs issued by SBA. These guidelines may be obtained from SBA's Investment Division or at
http://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/files/inv_valuation.pdf.
(b)
The Agency's approval of valuation policy.
You must have a written valuation policy approved by the Agency for use in determining the value of your Loans and Investments. You must either:
(1) Adopt without change the model valuation policy set forth in section III of the Valuation Guidelines for SBICs; or
(2) Obtain the Agency's prior written approval of an alternative valuation policy.
(c)
Responsibility for valuations.
Your board of directors, managing member(s), or general partner(s) will be solely responsible for adopting your valuation policy and for using it to prepare valuations of your Loans and Investments for submission to the Agency. If the Agency reasonably believes that your valuations, individually or in the aggregate, are materially misstated, it reserves the right to require you to engage, at your expense, an independent third party acceptable to the Agency to substantiate the valuations.
(d)
Frequency of valuations.
(1) You must value your Loans and Investments at the end of the second quarter of your fiscal year, and again at the end of your fiscal year.
(2) On a case-by-case basis, the Agency may require you to perform valuations more frequently.
(3) You must report material adverse changes in valuations at least quarterly, within 30 days following the close of the quarter.
(e)
Review of valuations by independent public accountant.
(1) For valuations performed as of the end of your fiscal year, your independent public accountant must review your valuation procedures and the implementation of such procedures, including adequacy of documentation.
(2) The independent public accountant's report on your audited annual financial statements (SBA Form 468 or other USDA-approved form(s)) must include a statement that your valuations were prepared in accordance with your approved valuation policy.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80222, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 4290.504
Equipment of USDA or SBA officials.
(a)
Computer capability.
You must have a personal computer with access to the Internet and be able to use this equipment to prepare reports and transmit such reports to the Agency. In addition, you must have the capability to send and receive electronic mail.
(b)
Facsimile capability.
You must be able to receive facsimile messages 24 hours per day at your primary office.
(c)
Accessible office.
You must maintain an office that is convenient to the public and is open for business during normal working hours.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80222, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 4290.506
Safeguarding the RBIC's assets/Internal controls.
You must adopt a plan to safeguard your assets and monitor the reliability of your financial data, personnel, Portfolio, funds and equipment. You must provide your bank and custodian with a certified copy of your resolution or other formal document describing your control procedures.
§ 4290.507
Violations based on false filings and nonperformance of agreements with the Agency or SBA.
The following shall constitute a violation of this part:
(a)
Nonperformance.
Failure to perform any of the requirements of any Debenture or of any written agreement with the Agency or SBA.
(b)
False statement.
In any document submitted to the Agency or SBA:
(1) Any false statement knowingly made; or
(2) Any misrepresentation of a material fact; or
(3) Any failure to state a material fact.
(4) A material fact is any fact that is necessary to make a statement not misleading in light of the circumstances under which the statement was made.
§ 4290.508
Compliance with non-discrimination laws and regulations applicable to federally-assisted programs.
In conducting your operations and providing Assistance to your Portfolio Concerns, you must comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d-1
et seq.
), the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (Pub. L. 94-135, Title III), and Title V of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.
) and the following regulations promulgated by USDA to implement and enforce such laws: 7 CFR part 15.
§ 4290.509
Employment of USDA or SBA officials.
(a) Without the Agency's prior written approval, for a period of two years after the date of your most recent issuance of Leverage or after the receipt of any assistance as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, whichever is later, you are not permitted to employ, offer employment to, or retain for professional services, any person who:
(1) Served as an officer, attorney, agent, or employee of SBA or USDA within one year before such date; and
(2) In that capacity, occupied a position or engaged in activities which, in SBA's or the Agency's determination, involved discretion with respect to the issuing of Leverage or the granting of such assistance.
(b) For purposes of this section, “assistance” means financial, contractual, grant, managerial, or other aid, including licensing, certifications, and other eligibility determinations made by USDA or SBA, and any express decision to compromise or defer possible litigation or other adverse action.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80222, Dec. 23, 2011]

# Management and Compensation
§ 4290.510
Approval of RBIC's Investment Adviser/Manager.
(a)
General.
You may employ an Investment Adviser/Manager who will be subject to the supervision of your board of directors, managing member(s), or general partner(s). If you have Leverage or plan to seek Leverage, you must obtain the Agency's prior written approval of the management contract. Approval of an Investment Adviser/Manager for one RBIC does not indicate approval of that manager for any other RBIC.
(b)
Management contract.
The contract must:
(1) Specify the services the Investment Adviser/Manager will render to you and to your Portfolio Concerns; and
(2) Indicate the basis for computing Management Expenses.
(c)
Material change to approved management contract.
Any proposed material change must be approved by both you and the Agency in advance. If you are uncertain whether the change is material, submit the proposed revision to the Agency.
§ 4290.520
Management Expenses of a RBIC.
The Agency must approve your initial Management Expenses and any increases in your Management Expenses.
(a)
Definition of Management Expenses.
Management Expenses include:
(1) Salaries;
(2) Office expenses;
(3) Travel;
(4) Business development, including finders' fees;
(5) Office and equipment rental;
(6) Bookkeeping; and
(7) Expenses related to developing, investigating and monitoring investments.
(b) Management Expenses do not include services provided by specialized outside consultants, outside lawyers and independent public accountants, if they perform services not generally performed by a capital company.

# Cash Management by a RBIC
§ 4290.530
Restrictions on investments of idle funds by RBICs.
(a)
Permitted investments of idle funds.
Funds not invested in Portfolio Concerns must be maintained in:
(1) Direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States, which mature within 15 months from the date of the investment; or
(2) Repurchase agreements with federally insured institutions, with a maturity of seven days or less. The securities underlying the repurchase agreements must be direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States. The securities must be maintained in a custodial account at a federally insured institution; or
(3) Certificates of deposit with a maturity of one year or less, issued by a federally insured institution; or
(4) A deposit account in a federally insured institution, subject to a withdrawal restriction of one year or less; or
(5) A checking account in a federally insured institution; or
(6) A reasonable petty cash fund.
(b)
Deposit of funds in excess of the insured amount
—(1)
General rule.
You are permitted to deposit in a federally insured institution funds in excess of the institution's insured amount, but only if the institution is “well capitalized” in accordance with the definition set forth in regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (12 CFR 325.103).
(2)
Exception.
You may make a temporary deposit (not to exceed 30 days) in excess of the insured amount, in a transfer account established to facilitate the receipt and disbursement of funds or to hold funds necessary to honor Commitments issued.
(c)
Deposit of funds in Associate institution.
A deposit in, or a repurchase agreement with, a federally insured institution that is your Associate is not considered a Financing of such Associate under § 4290.730, provided the terms of such deposit or repurchase agreement are no less favorable than those available to the general public.

# Secured Borrowing by RBICs
§ 4290.550
Prior approval of secured third-party debt of RBICs.
(a)
Definition.
For the purposes of this section, “secured third-party debt” means any debt that is secured by any of your assets and not guaranteed by the Agency, including secured guarantees and other contingent obligations that you voluntarily assume and secured lines of credit.
(b)
General rule.
You must get the Agency's written approval before you incur any secured third-party debt or refinance any debt with secured third-party debt, including any renewal of a secured line of credit, increase in the maximum amount available under a secured line of credit, or expansion of the scope of a security interest or lien. For purposes of this paragraph (b), “expansion of the scope of a security interest or lien” does not include the substitution of one asset or group of assets for another, provided the asset values (as reported on your most recent annual SBA Form 468 or other USDA-approved form(s)) are comparable.
(c)
Conditions for approval.
As a condition of granting its approval under this section, the Agency may impose such restrictions or limitations as it deems appropriate, taking into account your historical performance, current financial position, proposed terms of the secured debt and amount of aggregate debt you will have outstanding (including Leverage). The Agency will not favorably consider any requests for approval which include a blanket lien on all your assets, or a security interest in your investor commitments in excess of 125 percent of the proposed borrowing.
(d)
Thirty-day approval.
Unless the Agency notifies you otherwise within 30 days after it receives your request, you may consider your request automatically approved if:
(1) You are in regulatory compliance;
(2) The security interest in your assets is limited to either those assets being acquired with the borrowed funds or an asset coverage ratio of no more than 2:1; and
(3) Your request is for approval of a secured line of credit that would not cause your total outstanding borrowings (not including Leverage) to exceed 50 percent of your Leverageable Capital.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80223, Dec. 23, 2011]

# Voluntary Decrease in Regulatory Capital
§ 4290.585
Voluntary decrease in RBIC's Regulatory Capital.
You must obtain the Agency's prior written approval to reduce your Regulatory Capital by more than two percent in any fiscal year. At all times, you must retain sufficient Regulatory Capital to meet the minimum capital requirements in the Act and § 4290.210, and sufficient Leverageable Capital to avoid having excess Leverage in violation of section 384E(d) of the Act.

# Subpart H—Recordkeeping, Reporting, and Examination Requirements for RBICs

# Recordkeeping Requirements for RBICs
§ 4290.600
General requirement for RBIC to maintain and preserve records.
(a) Maintaining your accounting records. You must establish and maintain your accounting records using SBA's standard chart of accounts for SBICs, unless the Agency approves otherwise. You may obtain this chart of accounts from SBA or at
http://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/files/inv_charts_ of_accounts.pdf.
(b)
Location of records.
You must keep the following records at your principal place of business or, in the case of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, at the branch office that is primarily responsible for the transaction:
(1) All your accounting and other financial records;
(2) All minutes of meetings of directors, stockholders, executive committees, partners, members, or other officials; and
(3) All documents and supporting materials related to your business transactions, except for any items held by a custodian under a written agreement between you and a Portfolio Concern or lender, or any securities held in a safe deposit box, or by a licensed securities broker in an amount not exceeding the broker's per-account insurance coverage.
(c)
Preservation of records.
You must retain all the records that are the basis for your financial reports. Such records must be preserved for the periods specified in this paragraph (c) and must remain readily accessible for the first two years of the preservation period.
(1) You must preserve for at least 15 years or, in the case of a Partnership RBIC or LLC RBIC, at least two years beyond the date of liquidation:
(i) All your accounting ledgers and journals, and any other records of assets, asset valuations, liabilities, equity, income, and expenses;
(ii) Your Articles, bylaws, minute books, and RBIC application; and
(iii) All documents evidencing ownership of the RBIC including ownership ledgers and ownership transfer registers.
(2) You must preserve for at least six years all supporting documentation (such as vouchers, bank statements, or canceled checks) for the records listed in paragraph (b)(l) of this section.
(3) After final disposition of any item in your Portfolio, you must preserve for at least six years:
(i) Financing applications and Financing instruments;
(ii) All loan, participation, and escrow agreements;
(iii) All certifications listed in § 4290.610 of this part;
(iv) Any capital stock certificates and warrants of the Portfolio Concern that you did not surrender or exercise; and
(v) All other documents and supporting material relating to the Portfolio Concern, including correspondence.
(4) You may substitute a microfilm or computer-scanned or generated copy for the original of any record covered by this paragraph (c).
(d)
Additional requirement.
You must comply with the recordkeeping and record retention requirements set forth in 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA in 2 CFR part 400.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80223, Dec. 23, 2011; 79 FR 76018, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 4290.610
Required certifications for Loans and Investments.
For each of your Loans and Investments, you must have the documents listed in this section. You must keep these documents in your files and make them available to the Agency upon request.
(a) For each Financing made to a Rural Business Concern or Smaller Enterprise, a certification by the Portfolio Concern stating the basis for its qualification as a Rural Business Concern or Smaller Enterprise.
(b) A certification by the Portfolio Concern that it will not discriminate in violation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and Title V of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act.
(c) A certification by the Portfolio Concern of the intended use of the proceeds. For securities purchased from an underwriter in a public offering, you may substitute a prospectus indicating the intended use of proceeds.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80223, Dec. 23, 2011; 85 FR 16523, Mar. 24, 2020]
§ 4290.620
Requirements to obtain information from Portfolio Concerns.
All the information required by this section is subject to the requirements of § 4290.600 and must be in English.
(a)
Information for initial Financing decision.
Before extending any Financing, you must require the Enterprise to submit such financial statements, plans of operation (including intended use of financing proceeds), cash flow analyses, projections, and such economic development information about the Enterprise, as are necessary to support your investment decision. The information submitted must be consistent with the size and type of the Enterprise and the amount of the proposed Financing.
(b)
Updated financial and economic development information.
(1) The terms of each Financing must require the Portfolio Concern to provide, at least annually, sufficient financial and economic development information to enable you to perform the following required procedures:
(i) Evaluate the financial condition of the Portfolio Concern for the purpose of valuing your investment;
(ii) Determine the continued eligibility of the Portfolio Concern;
(iii) Verify the use of Financing proceeds;
(iv) Evaluate the economic development impact of the Financing; and
(v) In the case of any Portfolio Concern that is not a Rural Business Concern, the number and percentage of its employees residing in Rural Areas.
(2) The president, chief executive officer, treasurer, chief financial officer, general partner, or proprietor of the Portfolio Concern must certify the information submitted to you.
(3) For financial and valuation purposes, you may accept a complete copy of the Federal income tax return filed by the Portfolio Concern (or its proprietor) in lieu of financial statements, but only if appropriate for the size and type of the Enterprise involved.
(4) The requirements in this paragraph (b) do not apply when you acquire securities from an underwriter in a public offering (
see
§ 4290.825). In that case, you must keep copies of all reports furnished by the Portfolio Concern to the holders of its securities.
(c)
Information required for examination purposes.
You must obtain any information requested by the Agency's examiners for the purpose of verifying the certifications made by a Portfolio Concern under § 4290.610. In this regard, your Financing documents must contain provisions requiring the Portfolio Concern to give you and/or the Agency's examiners access to its books and records for such purpose.

# Reporting Requirements for RBICs
§ 4290.630
Requirement for RBICs to file financial statements and supplementary information with the Agency.
(a)
Annual filing.
For each fiscal year, you must submit financial statements and supplementary information prepared on SBA Form 468 or other USDA-approved form(s). You must file SBA Form 468 (or other USDA-approved form(s)) on or before the last day of the third month following the end of your fiscal year, except for the information required under paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, which must be filed on or before the last day of the fifth month following the end of your fiscal year.
(1)
Audit of annual filing form.
An independent public accountant acceptable to the Agency must audit the annual form submitted under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Insurance requirement for public accountant.
Unless the Agency approves otherwise, your independent public accountant must carry at least $1,000,000 of Errors and Omissions insurance, or be self-insured and have a net worth of at least $1,000,000.
(b)
Interim filings.
When requested by the Agency, you must file interim reports on SBA Form 468 or other USDA-approved form(s). The Agency may require you to file the entire form or only certain statements and schedules. You must file such reports on or before
the last day of the month following the end of the reporting period. When you submit a request for a draw under a Leverage commitment, you must also comply with any applicable filing requirements set forth in § 4290.1220.
(c)
Standards for preparation.
You must prepare SBA Form 468 or other USDA-approved form(s) in accordance with SBA's Accounting Standards and Financial Reporting Requirements for SBICs, which you may obtain from SBA or at
http://www.sba.gov/content/accounting-standards-sbics.
(d)
Where to file.
Unless otherwise identified in a notice published in the
Federal Register,
submit all filings of forms under this section to the Investment Division of SBA.
(e)
Reporting of economic development impact information for each Financing.
Your annual filing of SBA Form 468 or other USDA-approved form(s) must include an assessment of the economic development impact of each Financing. This assessment must specify the fulltime equivalent jobs created, the impact of the Financing on the revenues and profits of the business and on taxes paid by the business and its employees, and a listing of the number and percentage of employees who reside in Rural Areas.
(f)
Reporting of economic development information for certain Financings.
For each Rural Business Concern Investment and each Smaller Enterprise Investment, your SBA Form 468 or other USDA-approved form(s) must include an assessment of each such Financing with respect to:
(1) The economic development benefits achieved as a result of the Financing;
(2) How and to what extent such benefits fulfilled the goals of your comprehensive business plan and Participation Agreement; and
(3) Whether you consider the Financing or the results of the Financing to have fulfilled the objectives of the RBIC program.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80223, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 4290.640
Requirement to file portfolio financing reports with the Agency.
For each Financing you make (excluding guarantees), you must submit a Portfolio Financing Report on SBA Form 1031 or other USDA-approved form(s) within 30 days of the closing date.
[76 FR 80223, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 4290.650
Requirement to report portfolio valuations to the Agency
You must determine the value of your Loans and Investments in accordance with § 4290.503. You must report such valuations to the Agency within 90 days of the end of the fiscal year in the case of annual valuations, and within 30 days following the close of other reporting periods. You must report material adverse changes in valuations at least quarterly, within 30 days following the close of the quarter.
§ 4290.660
Other items required to be filed by RBIC with the Agency.
(a)
Reports to owners.
You must give the Agency a copy of any report you furnish to your investors, including any prospectus, letter, or other publication concerning your financial operations or those of any Portfolio Concern.
(b)
Documents filed with SEC.
You must give the Agency a copy of any report, application or document you file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(c)
Litigation reports.
When you become a party to litigation or other proceedings, you must give the Agency a report within 30 days that describes the proceedings and identifies the other parties involved and your relationship to them.
(1) The proceedings covered by this paragraph (c) include any action by you, or by your security holder(s) in a personal or derivative capacity, against an officer, director, Investment Adviser/Manager or other Associate of yours for alleged breach of official duty.
(2) The Agency may require you to submit copies of the pleadings and other documents it may specify.
(3) Where proceedings have been terminated by settlement or final judgment, you must promptly advise the Agency of the terms.
(4) This paragraph (c) does not apply to collection actions or proceedings to enforce your ordinary creditors' rights.
(d)
Notification of criminal charges.
If any officer, director, general partner, or managing member of the RBIC, or any other person who was required by the Agency to complete a personal history statement, is charged with or convicted of any criminal offense other than a misdemeanor involving a minor motor vehicle violation, you must report the incident to the Agency within 5 calendar days. Such report must fully describe the facts that pertain to the incident.
(e)
Reports concerning Operational Assistance grant funds.
You must comply with all reporting requirements set forth in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, as codified in 2 CFR 400.1 and any grant award document executed between you and the Agency.
(f)
Other reports.
You must file any other reports the Agency may require in writing.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 79 FR 76019, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 4290.680
Reporting changes in RBIC not subject to prior approval.
(a)
Changes to be reported for post-approval.
This section applies to any changes in your Articles, ownership, capitalization, management, operating area, or investment policies that do not require the Agency's prior approval. You must report such changes to the Agency within 30 days after the change, for post approval.
(b)
Approval by the Agency.
You may consider any change submitted under this § 4290.680 to be approved unless the Agency notifies you to the contrary within 90 days after receiving it. Approval is contingent upon your full disclosure of all relevant facts and is subject to any conditions the Agency may prescribe.

# Examinations of RBICs by the Agency for Regulatory Compliance
§ 4290.690
Examinations.
All RBICs must submit to annual examinations by or at the direction of the Agency for the purpose of evaluating regulatory compliance.
§ 4290.691
Responsibilities of RBIC during examination.
You must make all books, records and other pertinent documents and materials available for the examination, including any information required by the examiner under § 4290.620(c). In addition, the agreement between you and the independent public accountant performing your audit must provide that any information in the accountant's working papers be made available to the examiners upon request.
§ 4290.692
Examination fees.
(a)
General.
The Agency will assess fees for examinations in accordance with this § 4290.692. Unless the Agency determines otherwise on a case by case basis, it will not assess fees for special examinations to obtain specific information.
(b)
Base fee.
A base fee of $9,200 + 0.015 percent of your assets will be assessed, subject to adjustment in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Adjustments to base fee.
The base fee will be decreased based on the following criteria:
(1) If you have no outstanding regulatory violations at the time of the commencement of the examination or the Agency did not identify any violations as a result of the most recent prior examination, you will receive a 15% discount on your base fee; and
(2) If you were fully responsive to the letter of notification of examination (that is, you provided all requested documents and information within the time period stipulated in the notification letter in a complete and accurate manner, and you prepared and had available all information requested by the examiner for on-site review), you will receive a 10% discount on your base fee.
(d)
Examination delay fee.
If, in the sole discretion of the Agency, the time required to complete your examination
is delayed due to your lack of cooperation or the condition of your records, the Agency may assess an additional examination fee of up to $500 per day.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80224, Dec. 23, 2011]

# Subpart I—Financing of Enterprises by RBICs

# Determining Eligibility of an Enterprise for RBIC Financing
§ 4290.700
Requirements concerning types of enterprises to receive financing.
(a)
Financing requirements.
Beginning after the third fiscal year after the issuance of your RBIC license and at the close of each of your fiscal years thereafter, you must be in compliance with the Financing percentages specified in this paragraph (a).
(1)
Rural Business Concerns.
At least 75 percent of your Financings (in total dollars) to your Portfolio Concerns must have been to Rural Business Concerns.
(2)
Smaller Enterprises.
More than 50 percent of your Financings (in total dollars) to your Portfolio Concerns must have been to Smaller Enterprises that, at the time of the initial Financing to such Enterprise, meet either the net worth/net income test or the size standard set forth in the “Smaller Enterprise” definition in § 4290.50.
(3)
Urban Areas.
No more than 10 percent of your Financings (in total dollars) to your Portfolio Concerns must have been made to Portfolio Concerns located in an Urban Area.
(b)
Non-compliance.
If you are not in compliance with any of the Financing percentages specified in paragraph (a) of this section at the end of the third fiscal year after the issuance of your RBIC license or any fiscal year thereafter, you must come into compliance by the end of the following fiscal year. For as long as you remain out of compliance, you are not eligible for additional Leverage (see § 4290.1120).
[85 FR 16523, Mar. 24, 2020]
§ 4290.720
Enterprises that may be ineligible for Financing.
(a)
Re-lenders or re-investors.
You are not permitted to finance any Enterprise that is a re-lender or re-investor. The primary business activity of re-lenders or re-investors involves, directly or indirectly, providing funds to others, purchasing debt obligations, factoring, or long-term leasing of equipment with no provision for maintenance or repair.
(b)
Passive Enterprises.
You are not permitted to finance a passive Enterprise.
(1)
Definition.
An Enterprise is passive if:
(i) It is not engaged in a regular and continuous business operation (for purposes of this paragraph (b), the mere receipt of payments such as dividends, rents, lease payments, or royalties is not considered a regular and continuous business operation); or
(ii) Its employees are not carrying on the majority of day to day operations, and the Enterprise does not provide effective control and supervision, on a day to day basis, over persons employed under contract; or
(iii) It passes through substantially all of the proceeds of the Financing to another entity.
(2)
Exception for pass-through of proceeds to subsidiary.
With the prior written approval of the Agency, you may finance a passive Enterprise if it passes substantially all of the proceeds through to one or more subsidiary companies, each of which is an eligible Enterprise that is not passive. For the purpose of this paragraph (b)(2), “subsidiary company” means a company in which at least 50 percent of the outstanding voting securities are owned by the Financed passive Enterprise.
(3)
Exception for certain Partnership RBICs or LLC RBICs.
With the prior written approval of the Agency, if you are a Partnership RBIC or LLC RBIC, you may form one or more wholly owned corporations in accordance with this paragraph (b)(3). The sole purpose of such corporation(s) must be to provide Financing to one or more eligible, unincorporated Enterprise. You may form such corporation(s) only if a direct Financing to such Enterprise would cause any of your investors to
incur unrelated business taxable income under section 511 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 511). Your investment of funds in such corporation(s) will not constitute a violation of § 4290.730(a).
(c)
Real Estate Enterprises.
(1) You are not permitted to finance:
(i) Any Enterprise classified under sector 233 (Building, Developing, and General Contracting) of the NAICS Manual, or
(ii) Any Enterprise listed under sector 531 (Real Estate) unless at least 80 percent of its revenue is derived from non-Affiliate sources.
(2) You are not permitted to finance an Enterprise, regardless of NAICS classification, if the Financing is to be used to acquire or refinance real property, unless the Enterprise:
(i) Is acquiring an existing property and will use at least 51 percent of the usable square footage for an eligible business or commercial purpose; or
(ii) Is constructing or renovating a building and will use at least 67 percent of the usable square footage for an eligible business or commercial purpose; or
(iii) Occupies the subject property and uses at least 67 percent of the usable square footage for an eligible business or commercial purpose.
(d)
Project Financing.
You are not permitted to finance an Enterprise if:
(1) The assets of the Enterprise are to be reduced or consumed, generally without replacement, as the life of the Enterprise progresses, and the nature of the Enterprise requires that a stream of cash payments be made to the Enterprise's financing sources, on a basis associated with the continuing sale of assets. Examples include real estate development projects and oil and gas wells; or
(2) The primary purpose of the Financing is to fund production of a single item or defined limited number of items, generally over a defined production period, and such production will constitute the majority of the activities of the Enterprise. Examples include motion pictures.
(e)
Farm land purchases.
You are not permitted to finance the acquisition of farmland. Farmland means land which is or is intended to be used for agricultural or forestry purposes such as the production of food, fiber, or wood, or is so taxed or zoned.
(f)
Public interest.
You are not permitted to finance any business if the proceeds are to be used for purposes contrary to the public interest, including but not limited to or activities which are in violation of law, or inconsistent with free competitive enterprise.
(g)
Foreign investment
—(1)
General rule.
You are not permitted to finance an Enterprise if:
(i) The funds will be used substantially for a foreign operation; or
(ii) At the time of the Financing or within one year thereafter, more than 49 percent of the employees or tangible assets of the Enterprise are located outside the United States (unless you can show, to the Agency's satisfaction, that the Financing was used for a specific domestic purpose).
(2)
Exception.
This paragraph (g) does not prohibit either:
(i) A Financing used to acquire foreign materials and equipment or foreign property rights for use or sale in the United States; or
(ii) A Financing in a subsidiary based in the United States of foreign-owned entities with at least 51 percent U.S. ownership.
(h)
Financing RBICs, SBICs, or New Markets Capital Companies (NMVC Companies).
(1) You are not permitted to provide funds, directly or indirectly, that will be used:
(i) To purchase stock in or otherwise provide capital to a RBIC, SBIC or NMVC Company; or
(ii) To repay an indebtedness incurred for the purpose of investing in a RBIC, SBIC, or NMVC Company.
(2) “NMVC Company” is defined in 13 CFR 108.50.
(i)
Entities ineligible for Farm Credit System Assistance.
If one or more Farm Credit System Institutions or their Affiliates owns more than 50 percent of the ownership interests of a Rural Business Investment Company, either alone or in conjunction with other Farm Credit System Institutions (or affiliates), the Rural Business Investment Company may not provide Financing to any entity that is not otherwise eligible to receive Financing
from a Farm Credit System Institution under the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001
et seq.
).
(j)
Gaming establishments.
You are not permitted to Finance an Enterprise that derives, or is expected to derive, more than one-third of its gross annual revenue from legal gaming activities.
(k)
Change in control of an Enterprise.
You are not permitted to Finance a change of more than 50 percent control of an Enterprise unless otherwise approved by the Agency.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80224, Dec. 23, 2011; 85 FR 16523, Mar. 24, 2020]
§ 4290.730
Financings which constitute conflicts of interest.
(a)
General rule.
You must not self-deal to the prejudice of an Enterprise, the RBIC, its shareholders, partners or, members, or the Agency. Unless you obtain a prior written exemption from the Agency for special instances in which a Financing may further the purposes of the Act despite presenting a conflict of interest, you must not directly or indirectly:
(1) Provide Financing to any of your Associates, except for an Enterprise that satisfies all of the following conditions:
(i) Your Associate relationship with the Enterprise is described by paragraph (8) or (9) of the definition of
Associate
in § 4290.50,
(ii) No Person triggering the Associate relationship identified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of the definition of Associate in § 4290.50 is a Close Relative or Secondary Relative of any Person described in paragraphs (1), (2), (4), or (5) of the definition of
Associate
in § 4290.50, and
(iii) No single Associate of yours has either a voting interest or an economic interest in the Enterprise exceeding 20 percent, and no two or more of your Associates have either a voting interest or an economic interest exceeding 33 percent. Economic interests shall be computed on a fully diluted basis, and both voting and economic interests shall exclude any interest owned through the RBIC.
(2) Provide Financing to an Associate of another RBIC if one of your Associates has received or will receive any direct or indirect Financing or a Commitment from that RBIC or any other RBIC (including Financing or Commitments received under any understanding, agreement, or cross dealing, reciprocal or circular arrangement).
(3) Borrow money from:
(i) An Enterprise Financed by you;
(ii) An officer, director, or owner of at least a 10 percent equity interest in such Enterprise; or
(iii) A Close Relative of any such officer, director, or equity owner.
(4) Provide Financing to an Enterprise to discharge an obligation to your Associate or free other funds to pay such obligation. This paragraph (a)(4) does not apply if the obligation is to an Associate Lending Institution and is a line of credit or other obligation incurred in the normal course of business.
(b)
Rules applicable to Associates.
Without the Agency's prior written approval, your Associates must not, directly or indirectly:
(1) Borrow money from any Person described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(2) Receive from an Enterprise any compensation or anything of value in connection with Assistance you provide (except as permitted under § 4290.825(c)), or anything of value for procuring, attempting to procure, or influencing your action with respect to such Assistance.
(c)
Applicability of other laws.
You are also bound by Federal or State laws applicable to you that govern conflicts of interest and fiduciary obligations.
(d)
Financings with Associates
—(1)
Financings with Associates requiring prior approval.
Without the Agency's prior written approval, you may not Finance any Enterprise in which your Associate has either a voting equity interest or total equity interests (including potential interests) of at least five percent, or effective control, except as otherwise permitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(2)
Other Financings with Associates.
If you and an Associate provide Financing to the same Enterprise, either at the same time or at different times, you must be able to demonstrate to the Agency's satisfaction that the terms and conditions are (or were) fair and
equitable to you, taking into account any differences in the timing of each party's financing transactions.
(3)
Exceptions to paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.
A Financing that falls into one of the following categories is exempt from the prior approval requirement in paragraph (d)(1) of this section or is presumed to be fair and equitable to you for the purposes of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, as appropriate:
(i) Your Associate is a Lending Institution that is providing financing under a credit facility in order to meet the operational needs of the Enterprise and the terms of such financing are usual and customary.
(ii) Your Associate invests in the Enterprise on the same terms and conditions and at the same time as you.
(iii) Both you and your Associate are RBICs.
(e)
Use of Associates to manage Portfolio Concerns.
To protect your investment, you may designate an Associate to serve as an officer, director, or other participant in the management of a Portfolio Concern. You must identify any such Associate in your records available for the Agency's review under § 4290.600. Without the Agency's prior written approval, such Associate must not:
(1) Have any other direct or indirect financial interest in the Portfolio Concern that exceeds, or has the potential to exceed, the percentages of the Portfolio Concern's equity set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(2) Receive any income or anything of value from the Portfolio Concern unless it is for your benefit, with the exception of director's fees, expenses, and distributions based upon the Associate's ownership interest in the Concern.
(f)
1940 and 1980 Act Companies: SEC exemptions.
If you are a 1940 or 1980 Act Company and you receive an exemption from the Securities and Exchange Commission for a transaction described in this § 4290.730, you need not obtain the Agency's approval of the transaction. However, you must promptly notify the Agency of the transaction.
(g)
Restriction on options obtained by RBIC's management and employees.
Your employees, officers, directors, managing members or general partners, or the general partners or managing members of the Investment Adviser/Manager that is providing services to you or to your general partner or managing member, may obtain options in a Portfolio Concern only if:
(1) They participate in the Financing on a
pari passu
basis with you; or
(2) The Agency gives prior written approval; or
(3) The options received are compensation for service as a member of the board of directors of the Portfolio Concern, and such compensation does not exceed that paid to other outside directors. In the absence of such directors, fees must be reasonable when compared with amounts paid to outside directors of similar companies.
§ 4290.740
Portfolio diversification (“overline” limitation).
(a) Without the Agency's prior written approval, you may provide Financing or a Commitment to an Enterprise only if the resulting amount of your aggregate outstanding Financings and Commitments to that Enterprise and its Affiliates does not exceed 10 percent of the sum of:
(1) Your Regulatory Capital as of the date of the Financing or Commitment; plus
(2) Any permitted Distribution(s) you made during the five years preceding the date of the Financing or Commitment which reduced your Regulatory Capital; plus
(3) The total amount of Leverage provided to the Rural Business Investment Company by the Agency since it was licensed under § 4290.390.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, you must measure each outstanding Financing at its original cost plus any amount of the Financing that was previously written off.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80224, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 4290.760
How a change in size or activity of a Portfolio Concern affects the RBIC and the Portfolio Concern.
(a)
Effect on RBIC of a change in size of a Portfolio Concern.
If a Portfolio Concern was a Smaller Enterprise at the time of the initial Financing but
no longer qualifies as such under the size standard applicable to such entity, you may keep your investment in the Portfolio Concern and:
(1) Subject to the overline limitations of § 4290.740, you may provide additional Financing to the Portfolio Concern up to the time it makes a public offering of its securities.
(2) Even after the Portfolio Concern makes a public offering, you may exercise any stock options, warrants, or other rights to purchase Equity Securities which you acquired before the public offering, or fund Commitments you made before the public offering.
(b)
Effect of a change in business activity occurring within one year of RBIC's initial Financing
—(1)
Retention of Financing.
Unless you receive the Agency's written approval, you may not keep your Financing in a Portfolio Concern which becomes ineligible for financing by a RBIC by reason of a change in its business or commercial activity or for any other reason within one year of your initial Financing in the Portfolio Concern.
(2)
Request for approval to retain Financing.
If you request that the Agency approve the retention of your investment, your request must include sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the change in business or commercial activity was caused by an unforeseen change in circumstances and was not contemplated at the time the Financing was made.
(3)
Additional Financing.
If the Agency approves your request to retain a Financing under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, you may provide additional Financing to the Portfolio Concern to the extent necessary to protect against the loss of the amount of your original investment, subject to the overline limitations of § 4290.740.
(c)
Effect of a change in business activity occurring more than one year after the initial Financing.
If a Portfolio Concern becomes ineligible because of a change in business activity more than one year after your initial Financing you may:
(1) Retain your investment; and
(2) Provide additional Financing to the Portfolio Concern to the extent necessary to protect against the loss of the amount of your original investment, subject to the overline limitations of § 4290.740.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 16523, Mar. 24, 2020]

# Structuring RBIC Financing of Eligible Enterprises—Types of Financings
§ 4290.800
Financings in the form of Equity Securities.
You may purchase the Equity Securities of an Enterprise. You may not, inadvertently or otherwise:
(a) Become a general partner in any unincorporated business; or
(b) Become jointly or severally liable for any obligations of an unincorporated business.
§ 4290.810
Financings in the form of Loans.
You are permitted to make Loans to an Enterprise only if:
(a) The maturity or term of the Loan is five years or less; and
(b) You determine that making the Loan is necessary to preserve an existing Financing (other than a Loan) in that same Enterprise.
§ 4290.815
Financings in the form of Debt Securities.
(a)
General rule.
You may purchase Debt Securities from an Enterprise.
(b)
Restriction of options obtained by RBIC's management and employees.
Your employees, officers, directors, general partners, or managing members, or the general partners or managing members of your Investment Advisor/Manager, may obtain options in a Portfolio Concern only if:
(1) They participate in the Financing on a
pari passu
basis with you; or
(2) The Agency gives its prior written approval; or
(3) The options received are compensation for services as a member of the board of directors of the Enterprise, and such compensation does not exceed that paid to other outside directors. In the absence of such directors, fees must be reasonable when compared with amounts paid to outside directors of similar Enterprises.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80224, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 4290.820
Financings in the form of guarantees.
(a)
General rule.
At the request of an Enterprise or where necessary to protect your existing Financing in a Portfolio Concern, you may guarantee the monetary obligation of an Enterprise to any non-Associate creditor.
(b)
Exception.
You may not issue a guaranty if:
(1) You would become subject to State regulation as an insurance, guaranty or surety business; or
(2) The amount of the guaranty plus any direct Financings to the Enterprise exceed the overline limitations of § 4290.740, except that a pledge of the Equity Securities of the issuer or a subordination of your lien or creditor position does not count toward your overline.
(c)
Pledge of RBIC's assets as guaranty.
For purposes of this section, a guaranty with recourse only to specific asset(s) you have pledged is equal to the fair market value of such asset(s) or the amount of the debt guaranteed, whichever is less.
§ 4290.825
Purchasing securities from an underwriter or other third party.
(a)
Securities purchased through or from an underwriter.
You may purchase the securities of an Enterprise through or from an underwriter if:
(1) You purchase such securities within 90 days of the date the public offering is first made;
(2) Your purchase price is no more than the original public offering price; and
(3) The amount paid by you for the securities (less ordinary and reasonable underwriting charges and commissions) has been, or will be, paid to the issuer, and the underwriter certifies in writing that this requirement has been met.
(b)
Recordkeeping requirements.
You must keep records available for the Agency's inspection which show the relevant details of the transaction, including but not limited to, date, price, commissions, and the underwriter's certifications required under paragraphs (a)(3) and (c) of this section.
(c)
Underwriter's requirements.
The underwriter must certify whether it is your Associate. You may pay reasonable and customary commissions and expenses to an Associate underwriter for the portion of an offering that you purchase.
(d)
Securities purchased from another RBIC.
You may purchase from, or exchange with, another RBIC, Portfolio securities (or any interest therein). Such purchase or exchange may only be made on a non-recourse basis. You may not have more than one-third of your total assets (valued at cost) invested in such securities. If you have previously sold Portfolio securities (or any interest therein) on a recourse basis, you must include the amount for which you may be contingently liable in your overline computation.
(e)
Purchases of securities from other non-issuers.
You may purchase securities of an Enterprise from a non-issuer not previously described in this § 4290.825 if such acquisition is a reasonably necessary part of the overall sound Financing of the Enterprise.
§ 4290.830
Minimum term of Financing.
(a)
General rule.
The minimum term of each of your Financings is one year.
(b)
Restrictions on mandatory redemption of Equity Securities.
If you have acquired Equity Securities, options, or warrants on terms that include redemption by the Portfolio Concern, you must not require redemption by the Portfolio Concern within the first year of your acquisition except as permitted in § 4290.850.
(c)
Special rules for Loans and Debt Securities
—(1)
Term.
The minimum term for Loans and Debt Securities starts with the first disbursement of the Financing.
(2)
Prepayment.
You must permit voluntary prepayment of Loans and Debt Securities by the Portfolio Concern. You must obtain the Agency's prior written approval of any restrictions on the ability of the Portfolio Concern to prepay other than the imposition of a reasonable prepayment penalty under paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(3)
Prepayment penalties.
You may charge a reasonable prepayment penalty which must be agreed upon at the time of the Financing. If the Agency determines that a prepayment is unreasonable, you must refund the entire
penalty to the Portfolio Concern. A prepayment penalty equal to five percent of the outstanding balance during the first year of any Financing, declining by one percentage point per year through the fifth year, is considered the maximum reasonable amount.
§ 4290.835
Exceptions to minimum term of Financing.
You may make a Financing with a term of less than one year but only if such Financing is in contemplation of another Financing, with a term of one year or more, to the same Enterprise.
§ 4290.840
Maximum term of Financing.
The maximum term of any Debt Security must be no longer than 20 years.
§ 4290.845
Maximum rate of amortization on Loans and Debt Securities.
The principal of any Loan, or the loan portion of any Debt Security, with a term of one year or less, cannot be amortized faster than straight line. If the term is greater than one year, the principal cannot be amortized faster than straight line for the first year.
§ 4290.850
Restrictions on redemption of Equity Securities.
(a)
Restriction on redemption.
A Portfolio Concern cannot be required to redeem Equity Securities earlier than one year from the date of the first closing unless:
(1) The Portfolio Concern makes a public offering, or has a change of management or control, or files for protection under the provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, or materially breaches your Financing agreement; or
(2) You make a follow-on Financing, in which case the new securities may be redeemed in less than one year, but no earlier than the redemption date associated with your earliest Financing of the Portfolio Concern.
(b)
Redemption price.
The redemption price must be either:
(1) A fixed amount that is no higher than the price you paid for the securities; or
(2) An amount that cannot be fixed or determined before the time of the redemption. In this case, the redemption price must be based on:
(i) A reasonable formula that reflects the performance of the Portfolio Concern (such as one based on earnings or book value); or
(ii) The fair market value of the Portfolio Concern at the time of redemption, as determined by a professional appraisal performed under an agreement acceptable to both parties.
(c)
Method.
Any method for determining the redemption price must be agreed upon no later than the date of the first (or only) closing of the Financing.
§ 4290.860
Financing fees and expense reimbursements a RBIC may receive from an Enterprise.
(a)
General rule.
You may collect Financing fees and receive expense reimbursements from an Enterprise only as permitted under this § 4290.860.
(b)
Application fee.
You may collect a nonrefundable application fee from an Enterprise to review its Financing application. The application fee may be collected at the same time as the closing fee under paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, or earlier. The fee must be:
(1) No more than one percent of the amount of Financing requested (or, if two or more RBICs participate in the Financing, their combined application fees are no more than one percent of the total Financing requested); and
(2) Agreed to in writing by the Financing applicant.
(c)
The Agency's review of application fees.
For any fiscal year, if the number of application fees you collect is more than twice the number of Financings closed, the Agency in its sole discretion may determine that you are engaged in activities not contemplated by the Act, in violation of § 4290.500.
(d)
Closing fee—Loans.
You may charge a closing fee on a Loan if:
(1) The fee is no more than two percent of the Financing amount (or, if two or more RBICs participate in the Financing, their combined closing fees are no more than two percent of the total Financing amount); and
(2) You charge the fee no earlier than the date of the first disbursement.
(e)
Closing fee—Debt or Equity Financings.
You may charge a Closing
Fee on a Debt Security or Equity Security Financing if:
(1) The fee is no more than four percent of the Financing amount (or, if two or more RBICs participate in the Financing, their combined closing fees are no more than four percent of the total Financing amount); and
(2) You charge the fee no earlier than the date of the first disbursement.
(f)
Limitation on dual fees.
If another RBIC or an Associate of yours collects a transaction fee under § 4290.900(e) in connection with your Financing of an Enterprise, the sum of the transaction fee and your application and closing fees cannot exceed the maximum application and closing fees permitted under this § 4290.860.
(g)
Expense reimbursements.
You may charge an Enterprise for the reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, other than Management Expenses, that you incur to process its Financing application. If the Agency determines that any of your reimbursed expenses are unreasonable or are Management Expenses, the Agency will require you to refund them to the Enterprise.
(h)
Breakup fee.
If an Enterprise accepts your Commitment and then fails to close the Financing because it has accepted funds from another source, you may charge a “breakup fee” equal to the closing fee that you would have been permitted to charge under paragraph (d) or (e) of this section.
§ 4290.880
Assets acquired in liquidation of Portfolio securities.
(a)
General rule.
You may acquire assets in full or partial liquidation of a Portfolio Concern's obligation to you under the conditions permitted by this § 4290.880. The assets may be acquired from the Portfolio Concern, a guarantor of its obligation, or another party.
(b)
Timely disposition of assets.
You must dispose of assets acquired in liquidation of a Portfolio security within a reasonable period of time.
(c)
Permitted expenditures to preserve assets.
(1) You may incur reasonably necessary expenditures to maintain and preserve assets acquired.
(2) You may incur reasonably necessary expenditures for improvements to render such assets saleable.
(3) You may make payments of mortgage principal and interest (including amounts in arrears when you acquired the asset), pay taxes when due, and pay for necessary insurance coverage.
(d)
The Agency approval of expenditures.
This paragraph (d) applies if you have outstanding Leverage or are applying for Leverage. Any application for the Agency's approval under this paragraph must specify all expenses estimated to be necessary pending disposal of the assets. Without the Agency's prior written approval:
(1) Your total expenditures under paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section plus your total Financing(s) to the Portfolio Concern must not exceed your overline limit under § 4290.740; and
(2) Your total expenditures under paragraph (b) of this section plus your total Financing(s) to the Portfolio Concern must not exceed 35 percent of your Regulatory Capital.

# Limitations on Disposition of Assets
§ 4290.885
Disposition of assets to RBIC's Associates or to competitors of Portfolio Concerns.
Except with the Agency's prior written approval, you are not permitted to dispose of assets (including assets acquired in liquidation) to any Associate or to competitors of Portfolio Concerns if you have outstanding Leverage. As a prerequisite to such approval, you must demonstrate that the proposed terms of disposal are at least as favorable to you as the terms obtainable elsewhere.
§ 4290.900
Management fees for services provided to an Enterprise by RBIC or its Associate.
(a)
General.
This § 4290.900 applies to management services that you or your Associate provide to a Portfolio Concern during the term of a Financing or prior to Financing. It does not apply to management services that you or your Associate provide to an Enterprise that you do not finance.
(b)
The Agency's approval.
You must obtain the Agency's prior written approval of any management services fees and other fees described in this section that you or your Associate charge.
(c)
Permitted management fees.
You or your Associate may provide management services to a Portfolio Concern financed by you if:
(1) You or your Associate have entered into a written contract with the Portfolio Concern;
(2) The fees charged are for services actually performed;
(3) Services are provided on an hourly fee, project fee, or other reasonable basis;
(4) You can demonstrate to the Agency, upon request, that the rate does not exceed the prevailing rate charged for comparable services by other organizations in the geographic area of the Portfolio Concern; and
(5) All of the management services fees paid to your Associate by a Portfolio Concern for management services provided by the Associate are allocated back to you for your benefit.
(d)
Fees for service as a board member.
You or your Associate may receive fees in the form of cash, warrants, or other payments, for services provided as members of the board of directors of a Portfolio Concern Financed by you. The fees must not exceed those paid to other outside board members. In the absence of such board members, fees must be reasonable when compared with amounts paid to outside directors of similar companies. At least 50 percent of any board member services fees paid to your Associate by a Portfolio Concern for board member services provided by the Associate must be allocated back to you for your benefit.
(e)
Approval required.
You must obtain the Agency's prior written approval of any management contract that does not satisfy paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section.
(f)
Transaction fees.
(1) You or your Associate may charge reasonable transaction fees for work performed preparing an Enterprise for a public offering, private offering, or sale of all or part of the business, and for assisting with the transaction. Compensation may be in the form of cash, notes, stock, and/or options. All of the transaction services fees paid to your Associate by a Portfolio Concern for transaction services provided by the Associate must be allocated back to you for your benefit.
(2) Your Associate may charge market rate investment banking fees to a Portfolio Concern on that portion of a Financing that you do not provide.
(g)
Recordkeeping Requirements.
You must keep a record of hours spent and amounts charged to the Portfolio Concern, including expenses charged.

# Subpart J—Financial Assistance for RBICs (Leverage)

# General Information About Obtaining Leverage
§ 4290.1100
Type of Leverage and application procedures.
(a)
Type of Leverage available.
You may apply for Leverage from the Agency in the form of a guarantee of your Debentures.
(b)
Applying for Leverage.
The Leverage application process has two parts. You must first apply for the Agency's conditional commitment to reserve a specific amount of Leverage for your future use. You may then apply to draw down Leverage against the commitment.
See
§§ 4290.1200 through 4290.1240.
(c)
Where to send your application.
Send all Leverage draw-down applications to Funding Control Officer, Investment Division, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, SW., Suite 6300, Mail Code 7050, Washington, DC 20416.
§ 4290.1120
General eligibility requirements for Leverage.
To be eligible for Leverage, you must be in compliance with the Act, the regulations in this part, and your Participation Agreement.
§ 4290.1130
Leverage fees payable by RBIC.
(a)
Leverage fee.
You must pay the Agency a non-refundable leverage fee for each issuance of a Debenture. The fee is 3 percent of the face amount of the Debenture issued, and will be deducted from the proceeds remitted to you.
(b)
Additional charge.
You must pay the Agency an additional annual charge of 1 percent of the outstanding amount of your Debenture.
(c)
Other Leverage fees.
The Agency may establish a fee structure for services performed by the Central Registration Agent (CRA). The Agency will not collect any fee for its guarantee of TCs.
§ 4290.1140
RBIC's acceptance of remedies under § 4290.1810.
If you issue Leverage, you automatically agree to the terms and conditions in § 4290.1810 as it exists at the time of issuance. The effect of these terms and conditions is the same as if they were fully incorporated in the terms of your Leverage.

# Maximum Amount of Leverage for Which a RBIC Is Eligible
§ 4290.1150
Maximum amount of Leverage for a RBIC.
The face amount of a RBIC's outstanding Debentures may not exceed the lesser of 200 percent of its Leverageable Capital or $105,000,000.

# Conditional Commitments To Reserve Leverage for a RBIC
§ 4290.1200
Leverage commitment to a RBIC—application procedure, amount, and term.
(a)
General.
Under the provisions in §§ 4290.1200 through 4290.1240, you may apply for the Agency's conditional commitment to reserve a specific amount of Leverage and type of Debenture (standard or discounted) for your future use. You may then apply to draw down Leverage against the commitment.
(b)
Applying for a Leverage commitment.
The Agency will notify you when requests for Leverage commitments are being accepted, and upon receipt of your request, will send you a complete application package.
(c)
Limitations on the amount of a Leverage commitment.
The amount of a Leverage commitment must be a multiple of $5,000. The Agency in its discretion may determine a minimum dollar amount for Leverage commitments. Any such minimum amounts will be published in Notices in the
Federal Register
from time to time.
(d)
Term of Leverage commitment.
Your Leverage commitment will automatically lapse on the expiration date stated in the commitment letter issued to you by the Agency. The Agency's Leverage commitment will be included in the Participation Agreement at the time of your licensing as a RBIC, under § 4290.390.
§ 4290.1220
Requirement for RBIC to file financial statements at the time of request for a draw.
(a) If you submit a request for a draw against your Leverage commitment more than 90 days following your submission of an annual SBA Form 468 or a SBA Form 468 (Short Form) or other USDA-approved form(s), you must:
(1) Give the Agency a financial statement on Form 468 (Short Form) or other USDA-approved form(s), and
(2) File a statement of no material adverse change in your financial condition since your last filing of SBA Form 468 or other USDA-approved form(s).
(b) You will not be eligible for a draw if you are not in compliance with this § 4290.1220.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80224, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 4290.1230
Draw-downs by RBIC under Leverage commitment.
(a)
RBIC's authorization of the Agency to guarantee securities.
By submitting a request for a draw against the Leverage commitment, you authorize the Agency, or the Agency's designated agent or trustee, to guarantee your Debenture and to sell it with the Agency's guarantee.
(b)
Limitations on amount of draw.
The amount of a draw must be a multiple of $5,000. The Agency, in its discretion, may determine a minimum dollar amount for draws against Leverage commitments. Any such minimum amounts will be published in Notices in the
Federal Register
from time to time.
(c)
Effect of regulatory violations on RBIC's eligibility for draws
—(1)
General rule.
You are eligible to make a draw against your Leverage commitment only if you are in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Act and this part (
i.e.,
no unresolved statutory or regulatory violations) and your Participation Agreement.
(2)
Exception to general rule.
If you are not in compliance, you may still be eligible for draws if:
(i) The Agency determines that your outstanding violations are of non-substantive provisions of the Act or this part or your Participation Agreement and that you have not repeatedly violated any non-substantive provisions; or
(ii) You have agreed with the Agency in writing on a course of action to resolve your violations and such agreement does not prevent you from issuing Leverage.
(d)
Procedures for funding draws.
You may request a draw at any time during the term of the commitment. With each request, submit the following documentation:
(1) A statement certifying that there has been no material adverse change in your financial condition since your last filing of SBA Form 468 or other USDA-approved form(s) (see also § 4290.1220 for filing requirements).
(2) If your request is submitted more than 30 days following the end of your fiscal year, but before you have submitted your annual filing of SBA Form 468 or other USDA-approved form(s) in accordance with § 4290.630(a), a preliminary unaudited annual financial statement on SBA Form 468 (Short Form) or other USDA-approved form(s).
(3) A statement certifying that to the best of your knowledge and belief, you are in compliance with all provisions of the Act and this part (
i.e.,
no unresolved regulatory or statutory violations) and your Participation Agreement, or a statement listing any specific violations you are aware of. Either statement must be executed by one of the following:
(i) An officer of the RBIC;
(ii) An officer of a corporate general partner or managing member of the RBIC;
(iii) An individual who is authorized to act as or for a general partner of the RBIC; or
(iv) An individual who is authorized to act as or for a managing member of the RBIC.
(4) A statement that the proceeds are needed to fund one or more particular Enterprises or to provide liquidity for your operations. If required by the Agency, the statement must include the name and address of each Enterprise, and the amount and anticipated closing date of each proposed Financing.
(e)
Reporting requirements after drawing funds.
(1) Within 30 calendar days after the actual closing date of each Financing funded with the proceeds of your draw, you must file an SBA Form 1031 or other USDA-approved form(s) confirming the closing of the transaction.
(2) If the Agency required you to provide information concerning a specific planned Financing under paragraph (d)(4) of this section, and such Financing has not closed within 60 calendar days after the anticipated closing date, you must provide a written explanation of the failure to close.
(3) If you do not comply with this paragraph (e), you will not be eligible for additional draws. The Agency may also determine that you are not in compliance with the terms of your Leverage under § 4290.1810.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80224, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 4290.1240
Funding of RBIC's draw request through sale to third-party.
(a)
RBIC's authorization of the Agency to arrange sale of Debentures to third-party.
By submitting a request for a draw of Debenture Leverage, you authorize the Agency, or any agent or trustee the Agency designates, to enter into any agreements (and to bind you to such agreements) necessary to accomplish:
(1) The sale of your Debenture to a third-party at a price approved by the Agency; and
(2) The purchase of your Debenture from the third-party and the pooling of your Debenture with other Debentures with the same maturity date.
(b)
Sale of Debentures to a third-party.
If the Agency arranges for the sale of your Debenture to a third-party, the sale price may be an amount discounted from the face amount of the Debenture.

# Distributions by RBICs With Outstanding Leverage
§ 4290.1500
Restrictions on distributions to RBIC investors while RBIC has outstanding Leverage.
(a)
Restriction on distribution.
If you have outstanding Leverage, whenever you make a distribution to your investors you must make, at the same time, a prepayment to or for the benefit of the third-party holder of the Debenture sold pursuant to § 4290.1240 of this part, accrued unpaid interest and the principal, in whole or in part, of one or more of your Debentures outstanding as of the date of the distribution (subject to the terms of such Debentures).
(b)
Amount of prepayment.
You must calculate the amount due the third-party holder by multiplying the total amount you intend to distribute by a fraction whose numerator is the outstanding principal of your Debenture(s) immediately preceding your distribution, and whose denominator is the sum of your Leverageable Capital as of that time plus the outstanding principal amount of your Debentures. For purposes of the preceding sentence “principal” means both the net proceeds and interest accrued to date of a discounted Debenture. The amount of any payment received under this section will be credited first against unpaid interest accrued to the date of distribution and then to the principal in whole or in part of the first Debenture you select to prepay and then to the interest and principal in whole or in part of such other Debenture(s) as you select to prepay. You may elect to prepay in whole any discounted Debenture under this section only within five years of its maturity date. Payments under this section must be made on the next occurring March 1 or September 1.
(c)
Effect of prepayment.
Subject to the terms of the Debenture(s), you may voluntarily prepay additional principal, but neither mandatory nor voluntary prepayment will increase your future Leverage eligibility.

# Funding Leverage by Use of Guaranteed Trust Certificates (“TCs”)
§ 4290.1600
Agency's authority to issue and guarantee Trust Certificates.
(a)
Authorization.
Section 384F of the Act authorizes the Agency to issue TCs and to guarantee the timely payment of the principal and interest thereon. Any such guarantee of such TC is limited to the principal and interest due on the Debentures in any Trust or Pool backing such TC. The full faith and credit of the United States is pledged to the payment of all amounts due under the guarantee of any TC.
(b)
Authority to arrange public or private fundings of Leverage.
The Agency in its discretion may arrange for public or private financing under its guarantee authority. Such financing may be accomplished by the sale of individual Debentures, aggregations of Debentures, or Pools or Trusts of Debentures.
(c)
Pass-through provisions.
TCs shall provide for a pass-through to their holders of all amounts of principal and interest paid on the Debentures in the Pool or Trust against which they are issued.
(d)
Formation of a Pool or Trust holding Leverage Securities.
The Agency shall approve the formation of each Pool or Trust. The Agency may, in its discretion, establish the size of the Pools and their composition, the interest rate on the TCs issued against Trusts or Pools, discounts, premiums and other charges made in connection with the Pools, Trusts, and TCs, and any other characteristics of a Pool or Trust it deems appropriate. Notwithstanding § 4290.1130(c), any agent of the Agency may collect a fee for the functions described in 7 U.S.C. 2009cc-5(e)(2) that does not exceed $500.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80224, Dec. 23, 2011]
§ 4290.1610
Effect of prepayment or early redemption of Leverage on a Trust Certificate.
(a) The rights, if any, of a RBIC to prepay any Debenture is established by the terms of such security, and no such right is created or denied by the regulations in this part.
(b) The Agency's rights to purchase or prepay any Debenture without premium are established by the terms of the Guaranty Agreement relating to the Debenture.
(c) Any prepayment of a Debenture pursuant to the terms of the Guaranty Agreement relating to such security shall reduce the Agency's guarantee of timely payment of principal and interest on a TC in proportion to the amount of principal that such prepaid Debenture represents in the Trust or Pool backing such TC.
(d) The Agency shall be discharged from its guarantee obligation to the holder or holders of any TC, or any successor or transferee of such holder, to the extent of any such prepayment, whether or not such successor or transferee shall have notice of any such prepayment.
(e) Interest on prepaid Debentures shall accrue only through the date of prepayment.
(f) In the event that all Debentures constituting a Trust or Pool are prepaid, the TCs backed by such Trust or Pool shall be redeemed by payment of the unpaid principal and interest on the TCs; provided, however, that in the case of the prepayment of a Debenture pursuant to the provisions of the Guaranty Agreement relating to the Debenture, the Central Registration Agent (CRA) shall pass through pro rata to the holders of the TCs any such prepayments including any prepayment penalty paid by the obligor RBIC pursuant to the terms of the Debenture.
§ 4290.1620
Functions of agents, including Central Registration Agent, Selling Agent and Fiscal Agent.
(a)
Agents.
The Agency may appoint or cause to be appointed agent(s) to perform functions necessary to market and service Debentures or TCs pursuant to this part.
(1)
Selling Agent.
As a condition of guaranteeing a Debenture, the Agency may cause each RBIC to appoint a Selling Agent to perform functions that include, but are not limited to:
(i) Selecting qualified entities to become pool or Trust assemblers (“Poolers”).
(ii) Receiving guaranteed Debentures as well as negotiating the terms and conditions of sales or periodic offerings of Debentures and/or TCs on behalf of RBICs.
(iii) Directing and coordinating periodic sales of Debentures and/or TCs.
(iv) Arranging for the production of Offering Circulars, certificates, and such other documents as may be required from time to time.
(2)
Fiscal Agent.
The Agency shall appoint a Fiscal Agent to:
(i) Establish performance criteria for Poolers.
(ii) Monitor and evaluate the financial markets to determine those factors that will minimize or reduce the cost of funding Debentures.
(iii) Monitor the performance of the Selling Agent, Poolers, CRA, and the Trustee.
(iv) Perform such other functions as the Agency, from time to time, may prescribe.
(3)
Central Registration Agent.
Pursuant to a contract entered into with the Agency, the CRA, as the Agency's agent, will do the following with respect to the Pools or Trust Certificates for the Debentures:
(i) Form an approved Pool or Trust;
(ii) Issue the TCs in the prescribed form;
(iii) Transfer the TCs upon the sale of original issue TCs in any secondary market transaction;
(iv) Receive payments from RBICs;
(v) Make periodic payments as scheduled or required by the terms of the TCs, and pay all amounts required to be paid upon prepayment of Debentures;
(vi) Hold, safeguard, and release all Debentures constituting Trusts or Pools upon instructions from the Agency;
(vii) Remain custodian of such other documentation as the Agency shall direct by written instructions;
(viii) Provide for the registration of all pooled Debentures, all Pools and Trusts, and all TCs; and
(ix) Perform such other functions as the Agency may deem necessary to implement the provisions of this section.
(b)
Functions.
Either the Agency or an agent appointed by the Agency may perform the function of locating purchasers, and negotiating and closing
the sale of Debentures and TCs. Nothing in the regulations in this part shall be interpreted to prevent the CRA from acting as the Agency's agent for this purpose.
§ 4290.1630
Regulation of Brokers and Dealers and disclosure to purchasers of Leverage or Trust Certificates.
(a)
Brokers and Dealers.
Each broker, dealer, and Pool or Trust assembler approved by the Agency pursuant to these regulations shall either be regulated by a Federal financial regulatory agency, or be a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), and shall be in good standing in respect to compliance with the financial, ethical, and reporting requirements of such body. It also shall be in good standing with the Agency as determined by the SBA official with delegated authority to made this determination (
see
paragraph (c) of this section) and shall provide a fidelity bond or insurance in such amount as the Agency may require.
(b)
Suspension and/or termination of Broker or Dealer.
The Agency shall exclude from the sale and all other dealings in Debentures or TCs any broker or dealer:
(1) If such broker's or dealer's authority to engage in the securities business has been revoked or suspended by a supervisory agency. When such authority has been suspended, the Agency will suspend such broker or dealer for the duration of such suspension by the supervisory agency.
(2) If such broker or dealer has been indicted or otherwise formally charged with a misdemeanor or felony bearing on its fitness, such broker or dealer may be suspended while the charge is pending. Upon conviction, participation may be terminated.
(3) If such broker or dealer has suffered an adverse final civil judgment holding that such broker or dealer has committed a breach of trust or violation of law or regulation protecting the integrity of business transactions or relationships, participation in the market for Debentures or TCs may be terminated.
(c)
Termination/suspension proceedings.
A broker's or dealer's participation in the market for Debentures or TCs will be conducted in accordance with 7 CFR part 11. The Agency may, for any of the reasons stated in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, suspend the privilege of any broker or dealer to participate in this market. The Agency shall give written notice at least ten business days prior to the effective date of such suspension. Such notice shall inform the broker or dealer of the opportunity for a hearing pursuant to 7 CFR part 11.
§ 4290.1640
Agency's access to records of the CRA, Brokers, Dealers and Pool or Trust assemblers.
The CRA and any broker, dealer and Pool or Trust assembler operating under the regulations in this part shall make all books, records and related materials associated with Debentures and TCs available to the Agency for review and copying purposes. Such access shall be at such party's primary place of business during normal business hours.

# Miscellaneous
§ 4290.1700
Agency's transfer of interest in a RBIC's Leverage security.
Upon such conditions and for such consideration as it deems reasonable, the Agency may sell, assign, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any Debenture held by or on behalf of the Agency. Upon notice by the Agency, a RBIC will make all payments of principal and interest as shall be directed by the Agency. A RBIC will be liable for all damage or loss which the Agency may sustain by reason of the RBIC's failure to follow such payment instructions, up to the amount of the RBIC's liability under such security, plus court costs and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the Agency.
§ 4290.1710
Agency's authority to collect or compromise claims.
The Agency may, upon such conditions and for such consideration as it deems reasonable, collect or compromise all claims relating to obligations it holds or has guaranteed, and all legal or equitable rights accruing to it.
§ 4290.1720
Characteristics of Agency's guarantee.
If the Agency agrees to guarantee a RBIC's Debentures, such guarantee will be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Debentures or any other circumstances that might constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor. Pursuant to its guarantee, the Agency will make timely payments of principal and interest on the Debentures.

# Subpart K—RBIC's Noncompliance With Terms of Leverage
§ 4290.1810
Events of default and the Agency's remedies for RBIC's noncompliance with terms of Debentures.
(a)
Applicability of this section.
Upon acceptance of a license to operate as an RBIC, you automatically agree to the terms, conditions and remedies in this section, as in effect at the time of issuance of the license and as fully set forth in all documents relating to the license, including, without limitation, the Participation Agreement and Debentures.
(b)
Automatic events of default.
The occurrence of one or more of the events in this paragraph (b) causes the remedies in paragraph (c) of this section to take effect immediately.
(1)
Insolvency.
You become equitably or legally insolvent.
(2)
Voluntary assignment.
You make a voluntary assignment for the benefit of creditors without the Agency's prior written approval.
(3)
Bankruptcy.
You file a petition to begin any bankruptcy or reorganization proceeding, receivership, dissolution or other similar creditors' rights proceeding, or such action is initiated against you and is not dismissed within 60 days.
(c)
Remedies for automatic events of default.
Upon the occurrence of one or more of the events in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) Without notice, presentation or demand, the entire indebtedness evidenced by your Debentures, including accrued interest, and any other amounts owed with respect to your Debentures, is immediately due and payable; and
(2) You automatically consent to the appointment of the Agency or its designee, as your receiver under section 384M of the Act.
(d)
Events of default with notice.
For any occurrence (as determined by the Agency) of one or more of the events in this paragraph (d), the Agency may avail itself of one or more of the remedies in paragraph (e) of this section.
(1)
Fraud.
You commit a fraudulent act that causes detriment to the Agency's position as a creditor or guarantor.
(2)
Fraudulent transfers.
You make any transfer or incur any obligation that is fraudulent under the terms of 11 U.S.C. 548.
(3)
Willful conflicts of interest.
You willfully violate § 4290.730.
(4)
Willful non-compliance.
You willfully violate one or more of the substantive provisions of the Act or any substantive regulation promulgated under the Act or any substantive provision of your Participation Agreement.
(5)
Repeated Events of Default.
At any time after being notified of the occurrence of an event of default under paragraph (f) of this section, you engage in similar behavior that results in another occurrence of the same event of default.
(6)
Transfer of Control.
You willfully violate § 4290.410, and as a result of such violation you undergo a transfer of Control.
(7)
Non-cooperation under § 4290.1810(h).
You fail to take appropriate steps, satisfactory to the Agency, to accomplish any action the Agency may have required under paragraph (h) of this section.
(8)
Non-notification of Events of Default.
You fail to notify the Agency as soon as you know or reasonably should have known that any event of default exists under this section.
(9)
Non-notification of defaults to others.
You fail to notify the Agency in writing within ten days from the date of a declaration of an event of default or nonperformance under any note, debenture or indebtedness of yours, issued to or held by anyone other than the Agency.
(e)
Remedies for events of default with notice.
Upon written notice to you of the occurrence (as determined by the Agency) of one or more of the events in paragraph (d) of this section:
(1) The Agency may declare the entire indebtedness evidenced by your Debentures, including accrued interest and/or any other amounts owed the Agency with respect to your Debentures, immediately due and payable: and
(2) The Agency may avail itself of any remedy available under the Act, specifically including institution of proceedings for its, or its designee's appointment as your receiver under section 384M(c) of the Act.
(f)
Events of default with opportunity to cure.
For any occurrence (as determined by the Agency) of one or more of the events in this paragraph (f), the Agency may avail itself of one or more of the remedies in paragraph (g) of this section.
(1)
Excessive Management Expenses.
Without the Agency's prior written consent, you incur Management Expenses in excess of those permitted under §§ 4290.510 and 4290.520.
(2)
Improper Distributions.
You make any Distribution to your shareholders or partners, except with the Agency's prior written consent, other than:
(i) Distributions permitted under § 4290.585; and
(ii) Payments from Retained Earnings Available for Distribution based on either the shareholders' or members' pro-rata interests or the provisions for profit distributions in your partnership agreement, as appropriate.
(3)
Failure to make payment.
Unless otherwise approved by the Agency, you fail to make timely payment of any amount due under any security or obligation of yours that is issued to, held or guaranteed by the Agency.
(4)
Failure to maintain Regulatory Capital.
You fail to maintain the minimum Regulatory Capital required under these regulations or, without the Agency's prior written consent, you reduce your Regulatory Capital except as permitted by § 4290.585.
(5)
Capital Impairment.
You have a condition of Capital Impairment as determined under § 4290.1830.
(6)
Cross-default.
An obligation of yours that is greater than $100,000 becomes due or payable (with or without notice) before its stated maturity date, for any reason including your failure to pay any amount when due. This provision does not apply if you pay the amount due within any applicable grace period or contest the payment of the obligation in good faith by appropriate proceedings.
(7)
Nonperformance.
You violate or fail to perform one or more of the terms and conditions of any security or obligation of yours that is issued to, held or guaranteed by the Agency, or of any agreement (including your Participation Agreement) with or conditions imposed by the Agency in the administration of the Act and the regulations promulgated under the Act.
(8)
Noncompliance.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, the Agency determines that you have violated one or more of the substantive provisions of the Act or any substantive regulation promulgated under the Act.
(9)
Failure to maintain diversity.
You fail to maintain diversity between management and ownership as required by § 4290.150.
(g)
Remedies for events of default with opportunity to cure.
(1) Upon written notice to you of the occurrence (as determined by the Agency) of one or more of the events of default in paragraph (f) of this section, and subject to the conditions in paragraph (g)(2) of this section:
(i) The Agency may declare the entire indebtedness evidenced by your Debentures, including accrued interest, and/or any other amounts owed the Agency with respect to your Debentures, immediately due and payable; and
(ii) The Agency may avail itself of any remedy available under the Act, specifically including institution of proceedings for the appointment of the Agency or a designee as your receiver under § 348M of the Act.
(2) The Agency may invoke the remedies in paragraph (g)(1) of this section only if:
(i) You have been given at least 15 days to cure the default(s); and
(ii) You fail to cure the default(s) to the Agency's satisfaction within the allotted time.
(h)
Repeated non-substantive violations.
If you repeatedly fail to comply with one or more of the non-substantive provisions of the Act or any non-substantive regulation promulgated under the Act, the Agency, after written notification to you and until you cure such condition to the Agency's satisfaction, may deny you additional Leverage and/or require you to take such actions as the Agency may determine to be appropriate under the circumstances.
(i)
Consent to removal of officers, directors, or general partners and/or appointment of receiver.
The Articles of each RBIC must include the following provisions as a condition to the purchase or guarantee of Leverage. Upon the occurrence of any of the events specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(6) or (f)(l) through (f)(3) of this section as determined by the Agency, the Agency shall have the right, and you consent to the Agency's exercise of such right:
(1) With respect to a Corporate RBIC, upon written notice, to require you to replace, with individuals approved by the Agency, one or more of your officers and/or such number of directors of your board of directors as is sufficient to constitute a majority of such board; or
(2) With respect to a Partnership RBIC or an LLC RBIC, upon written notice, to require you to remove the person(s) responsible for such occurrence and/or to remove the general partner or manager of the RBIC, which general partner or manager shall then be replaced in accordance with the RBIC's Articles by a new general partner or manager approved by the Agency; and/or
(3) With respect to a Corporate RBIC, Partnership RBIC, or LLC RBIC, to obtain the appointment of the Agency or its designee as your receiver under section 384M of the Act for the purpose of continuing your operations. The appointment of a receiver to liquidate an RBIC is not within such consent, but is governed instead by the relevant provisions of the Act.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80224, Dec. 23, 2011]

# Computation of RBIC'S Capital Impairment
§ 4290.1830
RBIC's Capital Impairment definition and general requirements.
(a)
Significance of Capital Impairment condition.
If you have a condition of Capital Impairment, you are not in compliance with the terms of your Leverage. As a result, the Agency has the right to impose the applicable remedies for noncompliance in § 4290.1810(g).
(b)
Definition of Capital Impairment condition.
You have a condition of Capital Impairment if your Capital Impairment Percentage, as computed pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 4290.1840, exceeds 70 percent.
(c)
Quarterly computation requirement and procedure.
You must determine whether you have a condition of Capital Impairment as of the end of each fiscal quarter. You must notify the Agency promptly if you are Capitally Impaired.
(d)
The Agency's right to determine RBIC's Capital Impairment condition.
The Agency may make its own determination of your Capital Impairment condition at any time.
§ 4290.1840
Computation of RBIC's Capital Impairment Percentage.
(a)
General.
This section contains the procedures you must use to determine your Capital Impairment Percentage. You must compare your Capital Impairment Percentage to the maximum permitted under § 4290.1830(b) to determine whether you have a condition of Capital Impairment.
(b)
Preliminary impairment test.
If you satisfy the preliminary impairment test, your Capital Impairment Percentage is zero and you do not have to perform any more procedures in this § 4290.1840. Otherwise, you must continue with paragraph (c) of this section. You satisfy the test if each of the following amounts is zero or greater:
(1) The sum of Undistributed Net Realized Earnings, as reported on SBA Form 468 or other USDA-approved form(s) and Includible Non-Cash Gains.
(2) Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Securities Held.
(c)
How to compute your Capital Impairment Percentage.
(1) If you have an
Unrealized Gain on Securities Held, compute your Adjusted Unrealized Gain using paragraph (d) of this section. If you have an Unrealized Loss on Securities Held, continue with paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2) Add together your Undistributed Net Realized Earnings, your Includible Non-cash Gains, and either your Unrealized Loss on Securities Held or your Adjusted Unrealized Gain.
(3) If the sum in paragraph (c)(2) of this section is zero or greater, your Capital Impairment Percentage is zero.
(4) If the sum in paragraph (c)(2) of this section is less than zero, drop the negative sign, divide by your Regulatory Capital (excluding Treasury Stock), and multiply by 100. The result is your Capital Impairment Percentage.
(d)
How to compute your Adjusted Unrealized Gain.
(1) Subtract Unrealized Depreciation from Unrealized Appreciation. This is your “Net Appreciation”.
(2) Determine your Unrealized Appreciation on Publicly Traded and Marketable securities. This is your ”Class I Appreciation”.
(3) Determine your Unrealized Appreciation on securities that are not Publicly Traded and Marketable and meet the following criteria, which must be substantiated to the Agency's satisfaction (this is your “Class 2 Appreciation”):
(i) The Portfolio Concern that issued the security received a significant subsequent equity financing by an investor whose objectives were not primarily strategic and at a price that conclusively supports the Unrealized Appreciation;
(ii) Such financing represents a substantial investment in the form of an arm's-length transaction by a sophisticated new investor in the issuer's securities; and
(iii) Such financing occurred within 24 months of the date of the Capital Impairment computation, or the Portfolio Concern's pre-tax cash flow from operations for its most recent fiscal year was at least 10 percent of its average contributed capital for such fiscal year.
(4) Perform the appropriate computation from the table in 13 CFR 107.1840(d)(4).
(5) Reduce the gain computed in paragraph (d)(4) of this section by your estimate of related future income tax expense. Subject to any adjustment required by paragraph (d)(6) of this section, the result is your Adjusted Unrealized Gain for use in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(6) If any securities that are the source of either Class 1 or Class 2 Appreciation are pledged or encumbered in any way, you must reduce the Adjusted Unrealized Gain computed in paragraph (d)(5) of this section by the amount of the related borrowing or other obligation, up to the amount of the Unrealized Appreciation on the securities.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80225, Dec. 23, 2011]

# Subpart L—Ending Operations as a RBIC
§ 4290.1900
Termination of participation as a RBIC.
You may not terminate your participation as a RBIC without the Agency's prior written approval. Your request for approval must be accompanied by an offer of immediate repayment of all of your outstanding Leverage (including any prepayment penalties thereon), or by a plan satisfactory to the Agency for the orderly liquidation of the RBIC.

# Subpart M—Miscellaneous
§ 4290.1910
Non-waiver of rights or terms of Leverage security.
The Agency's failure to exercise or delay in exercising any right or remedy under the Act or the regulations in this part does not constitute a waiver of such right or remedy. The Agency's failure to require you to perform any term or provision of your Leverage does not affect the Agency's right to enforce such term or provision. Similarly, the Agency's waiver of, or failure to enforce, any term or provision of your Leverage or of any event or condition set forth in § 4290.1810 does not constitute a waiver of any succeeding
breach of such term or provision or condition.
§ 4290.1920
RBIC's application for exemption from a regulation in this part 4290.
(a)
General.
You may file an application in writing with the Agency to have a proposed action exempted from any procedural or substantive requirement, restriction, or prohibition to which it is subject under this part, unless the provision is mandated by the Act. The Agency may grant an exemption for such applicant, conditionally or unconditionally, provided the exemption would not be contrary to the purposes of the Act.
(b)
Contents of application.
Your application must be accompanied by supporting evidence that demonstrates to the Agency's satisfaction that:
(1) The proposed action is fair and equitable; and
(2) The exemption requested is reasonably calculated to advance the best interests of the RBIC program in a manner consistent with the policy objectives of the Act and the regulations in this part.
§ 4290.1930
Effect of changes in this part 4290 on transactions previously consummated.
The legality of a transaction covered by the regulations in this part is governed by the regulations in this part in effect at the time the transaction was consummated, regardless of later changes. Nothing in this part bars enforcement action with respect to any transaction consummated in violation of provisions applicable at the time, but no longer in effect.
§ 4290.1940
Integration of this part with other regulations applicable to USDA's programs.
(a)
Intergovernmental review.
To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with 2 CFR part 415, subpart C, “Intergovernmental Review of Department of Agriculture Programs and Activities.” The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45.
(b)
National flood insurance.
To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with subpart B of 7 CFR part 1806. The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45 of this part.
(c)
Clean Air Act and Water Pollution Control Act requirements.
To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with the requirements of the Clean Air Act, section 306; the Clean Water Act, section 508; Executive Order 11738; and 40 CFR part 32. The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45 of this part.
(d)
Historic preservation requirements.
To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with subpart F of 7 CFR part 1901. The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45 of this part.
(e)
Lead-based paint requirements.
To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with subpart A of 7 CFR part 1924. The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45 of this part.
(f)
Conflict of interest.
To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with 2 CFR 400.2, subpart D of 7 CFR part 1900, and RD Instruction 2045-BB. The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45.
(g)
Civil rights impact analysis.
To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with RD Instruction 2006-P, “Civil Rights Impact Analysis.” The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45 of this part.
(h)
Environmental requirements.
To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with 7 CFR part 1970. The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45.
(i)
Appeals to the National Appeals Division for review of adverse decisions.
Applicants and RBICs have the right to request review by the National Appeals Division within the USDA of adverse decisions, as defined in 7 CFR 11.1, pursuant to 7 CFR part 11.
[69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 79 FR 76019, Dec. 19, 2014; 81 FR 11053, Mar. 2, 2016]

# Subpart N—Requirements for Operational Assistance Grants to RBICs
§ 4290.2000
Operational Assistance Grants to RBICs.
(a)
Regulations governing.
Regulations governing Operational Assistance grants to RBICs may be found in subparts D and E of this part 4290 and in this § 4290.2000.
(b)
Restrictions on use.
A RBIC must use Operational Assistance grant funds only to provide Operational Assistance to Smaller Enterprises to which it either has made, or expects to make, a Financing.
(c)
Amount of grant.
Each RBIC will receive an Operational Assistance grant award equal to the lesser of 10 percent of the Regulatory Capital raised by the RBIC at the time of licensing or $1,000,000.
(d)
Term.
Operational Assistance grants made under this part will be made for a multiyear period (not to exceed 10 years) under such terms as the Agency may require.
(e)
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
Policies governing reporting, record retention, and recordkeeping requirements applicable to RBICs may be found in subpart H of this part 4290.

# Subpart O—Additional Requirements for Non-Leveraged Licensees and Exceptions to Regulations

# Source:
76 FR 80225, Dec. 23, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 4290.3000
Non-leveraged RBICs—General.
This subpart identifies provisions specific to RBICs seeking a non-leveraged license, including exceptions and additions to provisions associated with subparts A through N of this part.
§§ 4290.3001-4290.3002
[Reserved]
§ 4290.3003
Responsibilities for implementing Non-leveraged RBICs.
Section 4290.45 does not apply to Non-leveraged RBICs. Instead, for the purposes of this part as it applies to Non-leveraged RBICs, all authorities and responsibilities assigned to the Agency under this part shall be carried out by the Agency. Thus, when applying subparts A through N of this part to Non-leveraged RBICs, all references to the Small Business Administration (SBA) or Administrator on behalf of USDA shall be read as the Agency. All forms shall be submitted to USDA or its designee.
[77 FR 4885, Feb. 1, 2012]
§ 4290.3004
[Reserved]
§ 4290.3005
Qualifications for the Non-leveraged RBIC Program.
(a)
Business form.
In addition to complying with the applicable provisions of § 4290.100 not otherwise modified by this section, paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section apply.
(1) For RBICs applying for non-leveraged status, the types of investors eligible to invest in a RBIC must have been approved by the Agency. Investors seeking approval must submit a request to the Agency with sufficient documentation to support their request. The USDA will announce such approved categories and types of investors in a public notice published in the
Federal Register
from time to time. Subsequent notices that modify the types of investors eligible to invest in a RBIC will not be applied retroactively.
(2) In lieu of complying with § 4290.100(d)(1)(i), you must have a minimum duration of 10 years. After 10 years, the Partnership RBIC may be terminated by a vote of your partners.
(3) In lieu of complying with § 4290.100(d)(2), if you are a LLC RBIC, you must have a minimum duration of 10 years. After 10 years, the LLC RBIC may be terminated by a vote of your members.
(4) In lieu of complying with § 4290.100(d)(3), if you are a Corporate RBIC, you must have a duration of not less than 30 years unless earlier dissolved by the shareholders.
(b)
Approval of initial Management Expenses.
Section 4290.140 does not apply to Non-leveraged RBICs. However, the
Agency will provide a cap on these expenses in each
Federal Register
notice soliciting applications for Non-leveraged RBICs.
(c)
Management and ownership diversity requirements.
A Non-leveraged RBIC is subject to the provisions of § 4290.150 unless it is exempted from these provisions by the Agency. Exemptions will only be granted when the applicant establishes, to the satisfaction of the Agency, that granting the exemption will not unduly impair the integrity and soundness of the Non-leveraged RBIC.
(d)
Special rules for Partnership RBICs and LLC RBICs.
Paragraph (c) of § 4290.160 does not apply to Non-leveraged RBICs.
§§ 4290.3006-4290.3009
[Reserved]
§ 4290.3010
Application and Approval Process for RBIC licensing without Leverage.
(a) The provisions of § 4290.300 notwithstanding, the Agency will accept, at any time, applications for consideration as a Non-leveraged RBIC. The number of applications that the Agency will receive each year, and any fees and conditions, will be announced annually in a
Federal Register
notice.
(b) The provision for evaluating applicants on a competitive basis, as specified in § 4290.340(a), does not apply to this subpart.
(c) The provisions specified in § 4290.370(m) do not apply to this subpart.
[76 FR 80225, Dec. 23, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 4885, Feb. 1, 2012]
§§ 4290.3011-4290.3014
[Reserved]
§ 4290.3015
Evaluation and selection of Non-leveraged RBICs.
(a)
General.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this part, when selecting applications for non-leveraged status, the Agency may select one or more applications, or none, for further consideration based on the evaluation criteria of this part.
(b)
Eligibility and completeness.
In addition to the requirements specified in § 4290.350, an Applicant under this subpart must complete a written application that includes information not otherwise exempted by the Agency, in its sole discretion. The Agency may, on its own initiative, exempt material from a Non-leveraged RBIC application where the Agency determines it impedes an expedited process without a commensurate benefit to the program. To the extent that the Agency's exemption applies to the entire program, an announcement of the exemption will be published in the
Federal Register.
The Agency shall make a decision as to licensing an Applicant after the receipt of a complete application and will enter into a Participation Agreement with the RBIC if approved.
(c)
Effect of a RBIC license.
Paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of § 4290.390 do not apply to Non-leveraged RBICs.
§§ 4290.3016-4290.3019
[Reserved]
§ 4290.3020
Changes in Ownership, Structure, or Control.
Paragraph (b) in § 4290.440 does not apply to Non-leveraged RBICs.
§§ 4290.3021-4290.3024
[Reserved]
§ 4290.3025
Managing the Operations of a RBIC.
(a)
Nonperformance.
In addition to the provisions specified in § 4290.507, failure of an approved Non-leveraged RBIC to maintain sound investment practice, as determined by the Agency, may result in loss of approval for participating in this program.
(b)
Employment of USDA or SBA officials.
Paragraph (a)(2) of § 4290.509 does not apply to Non-leveraged RBICs.
(c)
Approval of RBIC's Investment Adviser/Manager.
In addition to complying with § 4290.510, a Non-leveraged RBIC must notify the Agency of the Management Expenses to be incurred under such contract, or of any subsequent material changes in such Management Expenses, within 30 days of execution.
(d)
Management Expenses of a RBIC.
When complying with § 4290.520, Non-leveraged RBICs do not need prior approval of initial Management Expenses and any increases in those expenses.
(e)
Restrictions on investments of idle funds by RBICs.
The provisions of § 4290.530 apply to Non-leveraged RBICs only when the Non-leveraged RBIC engages in activities not contemplated by the Act.
(f)
Prior approval of secured third-party debt of RBICs.
The provisions of § 4290.550 do not apply to Non-leveraged RBICs.
(g)
Voluntary decrease in Regulatory Capital.
When complying with § 4290.585, Non-leveraged RBICs do not need to obtain prior approval for decreases in Regulatory Capital of more than 2 percent (but not below the minimum required under this Act or these regulations). However, Non-leveraged RBICs must report the reduction to the Agency within 30 days.
§§ 4290.3026-4290.3029
[Reserved]
§ 4290.3030
Financing of Enterprises by RBICs.
(a)
Non-compliance with this section.
The last sentence of § 4290.700(e) does not apply to Non-leveraged RBICs.
(b)
Enterprises that may be ineligible for Financing.
The provisions associated with real estate enterprises found in § 4290.720(c) apply to Non-leveraged RBICs unless the Non-leveraged RBIC requests, and has received, an irrevocable exemption from the Agency in accordance with § 4290.1920.
(c)
Farmland purchases.
The provisions associated with farmland purchases found in § 4290.720(e) apply to Non-leveraged RBICs unless the Non-leveraged RBIC requests, and has received, an irrevocable exemption from the Agency in accordance with § 4290.1920.
(d)
Purchasing securities from an underwriter or other third party.
Non-leveraged RBICs are exempt from the recordkeeping requirements and fee limitations in § 4290.825(b) and (c), respectively, for securities purchased through or from an underwriter.
(e)
Assets acquired in liquidation of Portfolio securities.
The provisions of § 4290.880 do not apply to Non-leveraged RBICs.
§§ 4290.3031-4290.3034
[Reserved]
§ 4290.3035
Recordkeeping, Reporting, and Examination Requirements for RBICs.
Except for § 4290.600(d), Subpart H, Recordkeeping, Reporting, and Examination Requirements for RBICs, of this part applies to Non-leveraged RBICs.
§§ 4290.3036-4290.3039
[Reserved]
§ 4290.3040
Financial Assistance for RBICs.
Subpart J, Financial Assistance for RBICs (Leveraged), of this part does not apply to Non-leveraged RBICs.
§ 4290.3041
Events of default and the Agency's remedies for RBIC's noncompliance with terms of licensure.
In addition to complying with the provisions of § 4290.1810, a RBIC's failure to comply with the terms of this part may result in the Agency revoking the Non-leveraged RBIC's license issued under this part.
[76 FR 80225, Dec. 23, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 4885, Feb. 1, 2012]
§§ 4290.3042-4290.3044
[Reserved]
§ 4290.3045
Computation of RBIC's Capital Impairment.
The provisions specified in §§ 4290.1830 and 4290.1840 do not apply to Non-leveraged RBICs.
§§ 4290.3046-4290.3049
[Reserved]
§ 4290.3050
Operational Assistance Grants for RBICs.
Subpart N, Requirements for Operational Assistance Grant to RBICs, of this part does not apply to Non-leveraged RBICs. All other references to Operational Assistance in this part do not apply to Non-leveraged RBICs.
§§ 4290.3051-4290.3099
[Reserved]
PARTS 4291-4299 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. L (1-1-25 Edition)
RBS, RHS, and RUS, USDA

# CHAPTER L—RURAL BUSINESS-COOPERATIVE SERVICE, RURAL HOUSING SERVICE, AND RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
5001
Guaranteed loans
1057
5002-5099
[Reserved]
Pt. 5001

# PART 5001—GUARANTEED LOANS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
5001.1
General.
5001.2
Structure.
5001.3
Definitions.
5001.4
Exception authority.
5001.5
Appeal and review rights.
5001.6
General Lender responsibilities.
5001.7
Agency's special initiatives.
5001.8
Approvals, regulations, and forms.
5001.9
Standards for financial information.
5001.10
Federal Register notices and amendments.
5001.11-5001.99
[Reserved]
5001.100
OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Eligibility Provisions
5001.101
Introduction.
5001.102
Project eligibility—general.
5001.103
Eligible CF projects and requirements.
5001.104
Eligible WWD projects and requirements.
5001.105
Eligible B
I projects and requirements.
5001.106
Eligible REAP—Renewable Energy System (RES) projects and requirements.
5001.107
Eligible REAP—Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) projects and requirements.
5001.108
Eligible REAP—Energy Efficient Equipment and Systems (EEE) projects and requirements.
5001.109-5001.114
[Reserved]
5001.115
Ineligible projects—general.
5001.116
Ineligible CF projects.
5001.117
Ineligible WWD projects.
5001.118
Ineligible B
I projects.
5001.119
Ineligible REAP projects.
5001.120
[Reserved]
5001.121
Eligible uses of loan funds.
5001.122
Ineligible uses of loan funds.
5001.123-5001.125
[Reserved]
5001.126
Borrower eligibility.
5001.127
Borrower ineligibility conditions.
5001.128-5001.129
[Reserved]
5001.130
Lender eligibility requirements.
5001.131
Lender's agreement.
5001.132
Maintenance of approved lender status.
5001.133-5001.139
[Reserved]
5001.140
Cooperative stock/cooperative equity.
5001.141
New Markets Tax Credits Program.
5001.142-5001.200
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Origination Provisions
5001.201
General origination requirements.
5001.202
Lender's credit evaluation.
5001.203
Appraisals.
5001.204
Personal, partnership, and corporate guarantees.
5001.205
General project monitoring requirements.
5001.206
Compliance with USDA Departmental Regulations, Policies, and other Federal laws.
5001.207
Environmental responsibilities.
5001.208
Conflicts of interest.
5001.209-5001.300
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Guarantee Application Provisions
5001.301
Beginning the application process.
5001.302
Preliminary eligibility review.
5001.303
Applications for loan guarantee.
5001.304
Specific application requirements for CF projects.
5001.305
Specific application requirements for WWD projects.
5001.306
Specific application requirements for B
I projects.
5001.307
Specific application requirements for REAP projects.
5001.308-5001.314
[Reserved]
5001.315
Application evaluation and award provisions.
5001.316
CF project priority point system and reservation of funds.
5001.317
WWD project priority points system.
5001.318
B
I project priority points system.
5001.319
REAP project priority points system.
5001.320-5001.400
[Reserved]
Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 5001—Feasibility Study Components
Appendix B to Subpart D of Part 5001- Financial Feasibility Reports
Appendix C to Subpart D of Part 5001—Technical Reports for Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) Projects With Total Project Costs of More Than $80,000
Appendix D to Subpart D of Part 5001—Technical Reports for Renewable Energy System (RES) Projects With Total Project Costs of Less Than $200,000 but More Than $80,000
Appendix E to Subpart D of Part 5001—Technical Reports for Renewable Energy System (RES) Projects With Total Project Costs of $200,000 and Greater

# Subpart E—Loan and Guarantee Provisions

# Loan Provisions
5001.401
Interest rate provisions.
5001.402
Term length, loan schedule, repayment.
5001.403
Lender fees.
5001.404-5001.405
[Reserved]
5001.406
Guaranteed loan amounts.
5001.407
Percentage of loan guarantee.
5001.408
Participation or assignment of guaranteed loan.
5001.409-5001.449
[Reserved]

# Guarantee Provisions
5001.450
General.
5001.451
Conditional commitment.
5001.452
Loan closing and conditions precedent to issuance of loan note guarantee.
5001.453
Issuance of the loan note guarantee.
5001.454
Guarantee fee.
5001.455
Periodic guarantee retention fee.
5001.456
Other fees.
5001.457
Changes prior to loan closing.
5001.458
Other Federal, State, and local requirements.
5001.459
Replacement of loan note guarantee and assignment guarantee agreement.
5001.460-5001.500
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Servicing Provisions
5001.501
General.
5001.502
Oversight and monitoring.
5001.503
REAP RES or EEI project completion requirements.
5001.504
Financial reports.
5001.505
Collateral inspection and release.
5001.506
Loan transfers and assumptions.
5001.507
Lender Transfer.
5001.508
Mergers.
5001.509
Servicing fees.
5001.510
Subordination of lien position.
5001.511
Repurchases from holders.
5001.512
Additional expenditures and loans.
5001.513
Interest rate changes.
5001.514
Lender failure.
5001.515
Default by borrower.
5001.516
Protective advances.
5001.517
Liquidation.
5001.518
[Reserved]
5001.519
Bankruptcy.
5001.520
Litigation.
5001.521
Loss calculations and payment.
5001.522
Future recovery.
5001.523
Property acquired by the lender.
5001.524
Termination of loan note guarantee.
5001.525-5001.600
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1926(a); 7 U.S.C. 1932(a); and 7 U.S.C. 8107.

# Source:
85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 5001.1
General.
(a) This part contains the regulations for Community Facilities, Water and Waste Disposal, Business and Industry, and Rural Energy for America Program loans guaranteed by the Agency and applies to lenders, holders, borrowers, and other parties involved in making, guaranteeing, holding, servicing, and liquidating such loans. The loan guarantee programs covered by this regulation are more fully described as:
(1) Community Programs Guaranteed Loans (5 U.S.C. 301 and 7 U.S.C. 1989) as authorized by Section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(1), as administered by the Rural Housing Service (RHS), herein after referred to as CF.
(2) Water and Waste Disposal Program Guaranteed Loans (5 U.S.C. 301, 7 U.S.C. 1989, and 16 U.S.C. 1005) as authorized by Section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(1), as administered by the Rural Utilities Service (RUS), herein after referred to as WWD.
(3) Business and Industry Guaranteed Loans (7 U.S.C. 1932) as authorized by Section 310B, Business and Industry Direct and Guaranteed Loans, of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 7 U.S.C. 1932, as administered by the Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBCS), herein after referred to as B
I.
(4) Rural Energy for America Program Guaranteed Loans (5 U.S.C. 301, and 7 U.S.C. 8107) as authorized by Section 9007, Title IX of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, as administered by the Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBCS), herein after referred to as REAP.
(b) The applicability of the provision of this part for processing and approving applications and for servicing guaranteed loans depend on when a complete application is received. The Agency will process and approve applications, and service guaranteed loans according to the provisions of this part for all complete guaranteed loan applications that it receives on or after October 1, 2020, including guaranteed loan applications submitted under any of the programs whose authorization is identified in this section. All complete applications received before October 1, 2020, will be processed, and awarded and guaranteed loans serviced in accordance with the existing regulations in effect at the complete application date for the program under which the application was submitted.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79704, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.2
Structure.
This part is divided into six subparts as described in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section. The provisions are applicable to each guaranteed loan made under this part, except as may be otherwise indicated. This part also contains several appendices as identified in paragraph (g) of this section.
(a)
Subpart A.
Subpart A contains provisions that are applicable to each guaranteed loan made under this part, except as may be otherwise indicated. Topics covered include definitions; exception authority; appeal and review rights; general lender responsibilities; special initiatives; approvals, regulations, and forms; and standards for financial information.
(b)
Subpart B.
This subpart contains provisions for determining project, borrower, and lender eligibility that are applicable to each guaranteed loan made under this part. It also contains a list of eligible and ineligible uses of loan funds, ineligible projects and conditions that would make an otherwise eligible borrower ineligible. The lender's agreement is addressed as well as maintenance of approved lender status.
(c)
Subpart C.
This subpart contains provisions for general origination requirements, credit evaluation, appraisals, various types of guarantees, monitoring requirements, compliance with other laws, environmental responsibilities, and conflicts of interest that are applicable to each guaranteed loan made under this part.
(d)
Subpart D.
This subpart contains provisions relating to applications for a loan guarantee under this part, including preliminary eligibility reviews, the application process, application evaluation, and the application award processes that are applicable to each guaranteed loan made under this part.
(e)
Subpart E.
This subpart contains loan and guarantee provisions that are applicable to each guaranteed loan made under this part. Loan provisions cover interest rates, term length, loan schedule, repayment, lender fees, loan amounts, percentage of guarantee, and assignment of a guaranteed loan. Guarantee provisions cover the conditional commitment, conditions precedent to issuing the loan note guarantee, the issuance of the loan note guarantee, guarantee and other fees, replacement of documents, borrower reorganizations, and other legal requirements.
(f)
Subpart F.
This subpart applies to provisions for servicing the loans guaranteed under this part, including oversight, monitoring and reporting requirements and project completion requirements that are applicable to each guaranteed loan made under this part, except as may be otherwise indicated. Servicing topics covered include audits and financial reports; collateral; loan transfers and assumptions; lender transfers; mergers; servicing fees; subordinations of lien position; repurchases; additional expenditures and loans; interest rate changes; lender failures; borrower defaults; protective advances; liquidation; bankruptcy; litigation; loss calculations and payments; future recovery; property acquired by the lender; and termination of the loan note guarantee.
(g)
Appendices.
These appendices provide specific information on various reports associated with applying for a loan guarantee under this part.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62196, Oct. 2, 2020; 89 FR 79704, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.3
Definitions.
The following definitions are applicable to the capitalized terms used in this part.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Rural Housing Service, the Rural Utilities Service, or the Rural Business-Cooperative Service (or the applicable Service's successor), as applicable, within the Rural Development mission area of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).
Affiliate
means a person that is connected with or controlled by another organization. Factors such as ownership, management, current and previous relationships with or ties to another person, and contractual relationships, may be considered in determining whether affiliation exists. Affiliation is determined using the principles outlined in 13 CFR 121.301(f).
Agency
means USDA Rural Development, which includes the Rural Housing Service; the Rural Utilities Service; and the Rural Business-Cooperative Service or their successors.
Agricultural producer
means a person, including non-profits, directly engaged in the production of agricultural products through labor management and operations, including the cultivating, growing, and harvesting plants and crops (including farming); breeding, raising, feeding, or housing of livestock (including ranching); forestry products; hydroponics; nursery stock; or aquaculture, whereby 50 percent or greater of their gross income is derived from the operations. All gross income of the applicant entity is included for agricultural producer eligibility. The percentage is calculated as the average of gross agricultural operations income of the concern divided by the gross non-farm income of the concern for the five most recent years. If the concern has been in operation for less than 60 months but for at least 12 months, average gross agricultural operations income, and gross non-farm income for as long as the concern has been in operation will be used. Agricultural operations income may include such items as production contracts, crop insurance, commodity payments, etc. Total income may include W-2 wages, schedule C income, and other income not related to the agricultural operation. Calculations will be using the applicant's five most recent tax years. Each year's gross agricultural operations income will be divided by the applicant's gross total income, then the five years will be averaged to determine eligibility. An agricultural producer could be located in either a rural or a non-rural area.
Agricultural production
means the cultivation, growing, or harvesting of plants and crops (including farming) breeding, raising, feeding, or housing of livestock (including ranching); forestry products, hydroponics, or nursery stock; or aquaculture.
Anaerobic digester
means a renewable energy system that uses animal waste or other renewable biomass and may include other organic substrates to produce biogas that is sold in a gaseous or compressed liquid state or used to produce thermal or electrical energy.
Applicant lender debt
means an existing debt owed by a borrower to the same lender that is applying for or has received the Agency guarantee.
Appraisal surplus
means the excess between the market value of an asset and its cost or depreciated book value when the market value is higher.
Architectural report
means a report, prepared by a professional, licensed architect, or other qualified party that describes the existing situation, analyzes alternatives and proposes a specific course of action from an architectural perspective.
Arm's length transaction
means a transaction in which the buyer and seller act independently and have no relationship to each other. The concept of an arm's length transaction allows the market to ensure that both parties in the deal are acting in their own self-interest and are not subject to any pressure or duress from the other party.
Assignment guarantee agreement
means a signed, Agency-approved agreement between the Agency, the lender, and the holder setting forth the terms and conditions of an assignment of a guaranteed portion of a loan.
Biofuel
means a fuel derived from renewable biomass.
Biogas
means a gaseous fuel (including landfill and sewage waste treatment gas) derived from the degradation and decomposition of renewable biomass.
Bond
means a form of debt security in which the authorized issuer (borrower) owes the bond holder (lender) a debt and is obligated to repay the principal and interest (coupon) at a later date(s) (maturity). An explanation of the type of bond and other bond stipulations must be attached to the bond issuance.
Borrower
means the person that borrows, or seeks to borrow, money from the lender (including any party or parties liable for the guaranteed loan except guarantors) through a loan guaranteed under this part.
Business plan
means a comprehensive document that clearly describes the borrower's ownership structure and management experience including, if applicable, discussion of a parent company, any subsidiaries and affiliates of the borrower and discussion of how the borrower will operate the proposed project. If a business or industry is in
decline or financial distress, the business plan must describe in detail how the project differs from the current industry trends or improves the borrower's financial position.
Byproduct
means an incidental or secondary product, regardless of whether it has a readily identifiable commercial use or value, generated under normal operations of the proposed Project that can be reasonably measured and monitored.
Certificate of incumbency
means an Agency-approved form used to validate authenticity of Agency representatives' signature and title.
Collateral
means the asset(s), including assignments of relevant agreements, pledged by the borrower to the lender as security for the guaranteed loan.
Complete application
means an application that contains all parts necessary for the Agency to determine borrower and project eligibility, the financial feasibility and technical merit of the project, and contains sufficient information to determine a priority score for the application, if applicable.
Conditional commitment
means an Agency-approved form in which the Agency agrees that, in accordance with applicable provisions of the program regulations contained in this part and related forms, it will execute the loan note guarantee, subject to the conditions and requirements specified in applicable provisions of the program regulations contained in this part and in the conditional commitment itself.
Conflict of interest
means a situation in which a person has personal, professional, or financial interests that prevent, or appears to prevent the person from acting impartially. For purposes of this part, conflict of interest also includes, but is not limited to:
(1) A person acting as a compensated agent of the borrower and the lender on the same guaranteed loan,
(2) Distribution or payment of guaranteed loan funds to an individual owner, partner, stockholder, or member of the borrower, or to a beneficiary or immediate family member of the borrower;
(3) Refinancing debt that is owned by a loan packager, broker, or referral agent or its affiliates.
Cooperative
means an entity that is legally chartered by the State in which it operates as a cooperatively-operated business, or an entity that is not legally chartered as a cooperative but is owned and operated for the benefit of its members, with returns of residual earnings paid to such members on the basis of patronage.
Credit evaluation
means the analysis and evaluation by the lender of the credit factors associated with each application to ensure loan repayment through the use of credit documentation procedures and an underwriting process that is consistent with industry standards and the lender's written policy and procedures.
Debt Collection Improvement Act
(DCIA) means the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, 31 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.,
which requires that any nontax monies that are payable or may become payable from the United States under contracts and other written agreements to any person not an agency or subdivision of a state or local government may be subject to certain collection options, such as administrative offset, for a delinquent debt the person owes to the United States implemented under 7 CFR part 3.
Debt service coverage ratio
means the ratio obtained when taking earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization less reasonably expected replacement capital expenditures divided by the annual debt service (principal and interest payments) of the borrower.
Default
means the condition that exists when a borrower is in non-compliance under the terms of any of the promissory notes, the loan agreements, security documents, program regulations, or other documents evidencing or collateralizing the loan. Default can be a monetary or non-monetary default.
Deficiency judgment
means a monetary judgment rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction after foreclosure and liquidation of all collateral securing the loan.
Delinquency
means a situation that exists when a scheduled loan payment on a guaranteed loan made under this part is more than 30 calendar days past due and cannot be cured within the
next 30 calendar days. For purposes of this part, delinquency provides guidance for completing borrower status reports and is not used to define monetary or non-monetary default or undertaking-related servicing actions.
Departmental regulations
means the regulations of the Agency's Office of Chief Financial Officer (or successor office) as codified in 2 CFR chapter IV.
Eligible project costs
means those expenses approved by the Agency for the project as eligible uses of funds.
Energy assessment
means an Agency-approved report assessing energy use, cost, and efficiency by analyzing energy bills and surveying the target building and/or equipment sufficiently to provide an Agency-approved energy assessment.
Energy assessor
means a qualified consultant who has at least 3 years of experience and completed at least five energy assessments or energy audits on similar type projects and who adheres to generally recognized engineering principles and practices.
Energy audit
means a comprehensive report that meets an Agency-approved standard prepared by an energy auditor or an individual supervised by an energy auditor that documents current energy usage; recommended potential improvements (typically called energy conservation measures) and their costs; energy savings from these improvements; dollars saved per year; and simple payback. The methodology of the energy audit must meet professional and industry standards. The final energy audit must be validated and signed off by the energy auditor who conducted the audit or by the supervising energy auditor of the individual who conducted the audit, as applicable.
Energy auditor
means a qualified consultant that meets one of the following criteria:
(1) A certified energy auditor certified by the Association of Energy Engineers;
(2) A certified energy manager certified by the Association of Energy Engineers;
(3) A licensed professional engineer in the State in which the audit is conducted with at least 1 year of experience and who has completed at least two similar type energy audits; or
(4) An individual with a 4-year engineering or architectural degree with at least three years of experience and who has completed at least five similar type energy audits.
Energy efficiency improvement (EEI)
means improvements to or replacement of an existing building or systems, or equipment owned by the borrower, that reduces measurable energy consumption on an annual basis.
Energy efficient equipment and systems (EEE)
means equipment or systems for agricultural production or processing that exceed any of the following standards. Applications for energy efficient equipment and systems must clearly demonstrate energy efficiency.
Engineering documentation
means a document, normally prepared by the borrower's consulting engineer or other qualified party, that describes the existing system, analyzes alternatives, and proposes a specific course of action from an engineering perspective.
Essential community facility
means a public improvement, operated on a non-profit basis, needed for the orderly development of a rural community where the rural community is a city or town, or its equivalent county or multi-county area. The term “facility” refers to both the physical structure financed, and the resulting service provided to rural residents or rural businesses. Facilities may include, but are not be limited to, courthouses, community centers, libraries, firehouses, health care, education, transportation, and industrial parks. An industrial park consists of land and the necessary access ways and utilities to the site, but not improvements erected on such site.
Existing business
means a business that has been in operation for at least one full year and has achieved full operational capacity or stable operations as determined by the Administrator.The following will be treated as existing businesses provided there is not a significant change in operations of the existing business: Mergers by an existing business with a new or existing businesses, a change in the business name, or a new business and an existing business applying as co-borrowers,
Farmer or rancher cooperative
means an entity that is owned and controlled
by agricultural producers and that is incorporated, or otherwise recognized by the State in which it operates as a cooperatively-operated business or an entity that is not legally chartered as a cooperative but is owned and operated for the benefit of its members, with returns of residual earnings paid to such members on the basis of patronage.
Feasibility study
means a report including an opinion or finding conducted by an independent qualified consultant(s) evaluating the economic, market, technical, financial, and management feasibility of the proposed project or operation in terms of its expectation for success as outlined in appendix A to subpart D of this part.
Federal debt
means debt owed to the Federal Government that is subject to collection under the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, 31 U.S.C. 3701,
et seq.
Federal fiscal year
means the 12-month period beginning October 1 of each year and ends on September 30 of the following year; it is designated by the calendar year in which it ends.
Final loss claim
means the Agency's payment of a final settlement amount with the lender after the collateral is liquidated or after settlement and compromise actions have been completed and as further set forth in § 5001.521(e).
Financial feasibility
means the ability of a project to achieve sufficient income, credit, and cash flow to financially sustain the project over the long term and meet all debt obligations.
Future recovery
means funds to be collected by the lender after a final loss claim is processed as set forth in § 5001.522.
Geothermal direct generation
means a system that uses thermal energy directly from a geothermal source.
Geothermal electric generation
means a system that uses thermal energy from a geothermal source to produce electricity.
Guaranteed loan
means a loan made and serviced by a lender for which the Agency and lender have entered into a lender's agreement and for which the Agency has issued a loan note guarantee. Unless otherwise specified, guaranteed loan refers to a loan that the Agency has guaranteed under this Part.
Guarantor
means a person giving assurance to the Agency under an Agency-approved written agreement that the borrower's obligations will be fulfilled and promising
its undertaking of responsibility for
repayment of a guaranteed loan if the borrower should default.
Holder
means a person, other than the lender, who owns all or part of the guaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan with no servicing responsibilities.
Hospital
(1) For the purpose of refinancing rural hospital debt in accordance with § 5001.102(d)(5), hospital means the following types of facilities defined in the Social Security Act, Section 1861 (42 U.S.C. 1395x):
(i) Hospital (section 1861(e)).
(ii) Psychiatric hospital (section 1861(f)).
(iii) Long-term care hospital (section 1861(ccc)); and shall also include the following other provider types defined in the Social Security Act, Section 1861 (42 U.S.C. 1395X):
(A) Critical access hospital (section 1861(mm)(1)).
(B) Religious nonmedical health care institution (section 1861(ss)(1)).
(2) The Agency will use the applicant provider's Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Certification Number (CCN) to verify the applicant provider is listed as a “Hospital” for the “Provider or Supplier Type” category on the CMS Quality Certification and Oversight Reports (QCOR) website
qcor.cms.gov/index_new.jsp.
Hybrid
means a combination of two or more renewable energy technologies that are incorporated into a unified system to support a single project. Projects which propose two or more different renewable energy technologies that are not incorporated into a unified system and projects which propose different renewable energy technologies at two or more locations (a different technology at each site) are not eligible. For example, installing wind technologies at one location and solar technologies at another location is not considered hybrid but installing wind and solar technologies that are incorporated into a unified
system to support a single project at both locations is considered hybrid.
Hydroelectric source
means a renewable energy system producing electricity using various types of moving water including, but not limited to, diverted run-of-river water, in-stream run-of-river water, and in-conduit water.
Hydrogen project
means a system that produces hydrogen derived from renewable biomass or water using wind, solar, ocean (including tidal, wave, current, and thermal), geothermal, or hydroelectric sources; or that uses hydrogen derived from renewable biomass or water using wind, solar, ocean (including tidal, wave, current, and thermal), geothermal or hydroelectric sources as an energy transport medium in the production of mechanical or electric power or thermal energy.
Immediate family(ies)
means individuals who live in the same household or who are closely related by blood, marriage, or adoption, such as a spouse, domestic partner, parent, child, sibling, aunt, uncle, grandparent, grandchild, niece, nephew, or first cousin.
Indian tribe
means the term as defined in 25 U.S.C. 5304(e).
In-house expenses
means expenses associated with activities that are routinely the responsibility of a lender's internal staff, including in-house lawyers, or its agents and that are normally incurred for administration of the loan. In-house expenses include, but are not limited to, employees' salaries, staff lawyers, travel, and overhead.
Inspector
means a qualified consultant who has at least 3 years of experience and has completed at least five inspections on similar type projects.
Insurance
means a means of protection from financial loss by which a company provides a guarantee of compensation for a specified loss, damage, illness, or death in return for payment of a premium.
Intangible assets
means an asset that lacks physical substance. This includes, but is not limited to, copyrights, patents, capitalized franchise fees, goodwill, customer lists, software, organizational expenses, loan closing expenses, social media assets, and bond fees.
Interconnection agreement
means a contract containing the terms and conditions governing the interconnection and parallel operation of the borrower's electric generation equipment and the utility's electric power system or a borrower's biogas production system and a gas pipeline.
Interest
means an amount paid by a borrower to a lender as a form of compensation for the use of money. When money is borrowed, interest is typically paid over a certain period of time (typically months or years) to the lender as percentage of the principal amount owed. The term interest does not include default charges, penalty interest, or late payment fees.
Interest termination date
means the date on which no further interest will be payable by the Agency under the loan note guarantee.
Interim financing
means a temporary or short-term loan made with the clear intent when the loan is made that it will be repaid through another loan that provides permanent financing. Interim financing is frequently used to pay construction and other costs associated with the proposed project, with permanent financing to be obtained after project completion.
Lender
means a lending entity that the Agency has approved to originate, service, and collect payments on loans guaranteed under this part.
Lender's agreement
means the Agency-approved form of contract between the Agency and the lender setting forth the lender's guaranteed loan responsibilities.
Liquidation expenses
means costs directly associated with the liquidation of collateral, including, without limitation, costs associated with preparing collateral for sale (
e.g.,
repairs and transport), the sale (
e.g.,
advertising, public notices, auctioneer expenses, and foreclosure fees), and conducting appraisals. Legal fees are considered liquidation expenses provided that the fees are reasonable as determined by the Agency and cover legal issues pertaining to the liquidation that could not be properly handled by the lender and its in-house legal staff. Liquidation expenses do not include in-house expenses.
Loan agreement
means the agreement between the borrower and lender containing the specified terms and conditions of the guaranteed loan and the responsibilities of the borrower and lender.
Loan classification
means the process by which loans are examined and categorized by the probability of default and degree of potential loss in the event of default.
Loan documents
mean the loan agreement, promissory note, mortgage/deed of trust, and other security documents entered into by the borrower and the lender in connection with the guaranteed loan.
Loan note guarantee
means the Agency-approved form containing the terms and conditions of the guarantee of an identified guaranteed loan.
Loan packager
means a person, including a loan referral agent, broker, or an agent other than the borrower or lender that prepares a guaranteed loan application on behalf of the borrower or lender.
Local government
means a county, municipality, town, township, village, or other unit of general government below the State level. The term also includes Tribal governments when tribal lands are within the service area.
Local owner
means an individual who owns any portion of an entity that is the eligible borrower and whose primary residence is located within the normal commuting area, typically 100 miles or less, of the guaranteed loan project.
Locally or regionally produced agricultural food product
means any agricultural food product that is raised, produced, and distributed in the locality or region in which the final product is marketed, so that the distance the product is transported is less than 400 miles from the origin of the product, or within the State in which the product is produced. Food products could be raw, cooked, or a processed edible substance, beverage, or ingredient used or intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for human consumption.
Market value
means the most probable price that an asset should bring in a competitive and open market under all conditions requisite to a fair sale, the buyer and seller, each acting prudently, knowledgeably, and assuming the price is not affected by undue stimulus. Implicit in this definition is the consummation of a sale as of a specified date and the passing of title from seller to buyer under conditions whereby—
(1) Buyer and seller are typically motivated;
(2) Both parties are well informed or well advised, and each acting in what he or she considers his or her own best interest;
(3) A reasonable time is allowed for exposure in the open market;
(4) Payment is made in terms of cash in U.S. dollars or in terms of financial arrangements comparable thereto; and
(5) The price represents the normal consideration for the property sold unaffected by special or creative financing or sales concessions granted by anyone associated with the sale.
Matching funds
means the 25 percent of total eligible project costs required by 7 U.S.C. 8107 (REAP) to be eligible to receive a guaranteed loan. Funds provided by the borrower in excess of matching funds are not matching funds.
Material adverse change
means any change in circumstances associated with a guaranteed loan, including, without limitation, any change in the purpose of the loan, the borrower's financial condition or collateral that, individually or in the aggregate, have jeopardized, or could be reasonably expected to jeopardize, the borrower's repayment of the guaranteed loan.
Monetary default
means a failure to make a scheduled or required payment on a guaranteed loan.
Multi-note system
means an option for the lender to provide one promissory note for the unguaranteed portion and a separate promissory note(s) for the guaranteed portion of the loan. All promissory notes must reflect the same payment terms.
National Appeals Division
(NAD) means the division of the United States Department of Agriculture pursuant to 7 CFR part 11.
Natural resource value-added product
means a product derived from any naturally occurring resource, including agricultural resources, that is further
processed to add value or used to generate energy or renewable energy. For example, wind or the sun being used for energy generation, grapes that are processed into wine or jam, or straw that is processed into particle board. Feeding grain to livestock is not considered as part of this definition.
Negligent loan origination
means the failure of a lender to perform those services or actions that a reasonably prudent lender would perform in originating its own portfolio of loans that are not guaranteed. The term includes the concepts of failure to act, not acting in a timely manner, and acting in a manner contrary to the manner in which a reasonably prudent lender would act.
Negligent loan servicing
means the failure of a lender to perform those services that a reasonably prudent lender would perform in servicing (including liquidation of) its own portfolio of loans that are not guaranteed. The term includes the concepts of failure to act, not acting in a timely manner, and acting in a manner contrary to the manner in which a reasonably prudent lender would act.
New business
means a business that has been in operation for less than one full year and a business that has been in operation for at least one full year and has not achieved full operational capacity or stable operations as determined by the Administrator, including a new enterprise or new affiliate of an existing business moving or expanding into a new location involving new market or labor areas.
Non-monetary default
means a situation where a borrower is not in compliance with the covenants or requirements of the loan documents, program requirements or loan.
Non-regulated lending entity
means a lending entity that is not subject to supervision and examination by an agency of the United States or a State.
Ocean energy
means energy created by use of various types of moving water in the ocean and other large bodies of water (
e.g.,
Great Lakes) including, but not limited to, tidal, wave, current, and thermal changes.
Off-take agreement
means the terms and conditions governing the sale and transportation of products produced by the borrower and sold to another party.
Otherwise improve
means, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) The purchase of necessary equipment that will itself provide an essential service to the rural community, such as vehicles, emergency and medical equipment, telecommunication equipment, computers, water meters and pumps;
(2) The purchase of equipment necessary to maintain, protect, operate, or use the eligible facility or service;
(3) The purchase of existing eligible facilities, when necessary, to either improve or prevent a loss of service provided the price paid for the facility is fair and reasonable and not directly related to the dollar amount of any debt to be retired by the seller; and
(4) Payment of tap fees and other utility connection charges as provided in utility purchase contracts.
Parity
means a lien position whereby two or more separate lending entities or separate loans share a security interest of equal priority in collateral.
Participation
means the sale of an interest in a loan by the lead lender to one or more participating lenders wherein the lead lender retains the note, collateral securing the note, and all responsibility for managing and servicing the loan. Participants have credit risk and are dependent upon the lead lender for protection of their interests in the loan. The relationship is typically formalized by a participation agreement between the lenders. The participant lender(s) and the borrower have no rights or obligations to one another.
Passive investor
means an equity investor who does not actively participate in management and operation decisions of the borrower or any affiliate of the borrower as evidenced by a contractual agreement.
Person
means an individual or entity organized under the laws of a State or a Tribe.
Power purchase agreement
means the terms and conditions governing the sale and transportation of power produced by the borrower to another party.
Professional service
means services used by the borrower for planning and
developing a project, including, but not limited to, appraisals, architectural services, surveys, environmental impact analyses, implementing mitigation measures, and establishing or acquiring property rights. Such services are generally rendered by persons licensed or certified by States or accreditation associations, such as architects, engineers, accountants, attorneys, or appraisers, and those rendered by loan packagers, but not including loan finders. A loan finder fee is not considered a professional service.
Project
means the activity identified by a lender in its application for a loan guarantee for which the guaranteed loan funds will be used.
Promissory note
means the legal instrument evidencing debt executed by the borrower to a lender with stipulated repayment terms. The term promissory note includes bonds and other related debt instruments issued by the lender to a borrower.
Protective advance
means an advance made by the lender for the purpose of preserving and protecting the collateral where the borrower has failed to, and will not or cannot, meet its obligations to protect or preserve collateral. Protective advances include, but are not limited to, advances for property taxes, rent, hazard and flood insurance premiums, emergency repairs and annual assessments that protect the collateral. Legal and accounting fees are not a protective advance.
Public body
means a state, county, city, township, incorporated town or village, borough, authority, district, or other political subdivision of a State, or Indian tribe.
Qualified consultant(s)
means an independent third-party person possessing the knowledge, expertise, and experience to perform the specific task required.
Rated power
means the maximum amount of energy that can be created at any given time.
Refurbished
means a piece of equipment or renewable energy system that has been brought into a commercial facility, thoroughly inspected, and worn parts replaced and has a warranty that is approved by the Agency or its designee An example of refurbished equipment is a diesel engine that has been rebuilt to factory specifications. The purchase of used equipment which has not been refurbished is not eligible.
Regulated lending entity
means a lending entity that is subject to supervision and examination by an agency of the United States or a State; or a lending entity created specifically by State statute and operating under the direct supervision of a State government authority.
Renewable biomass
means—
(1) Materials, pre-commercial thinning, or invasive species from National Forest System land or public lands (as defined in Section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702)) that—
(i) Are by-products of preventive treatments that are removed to reduce hazardous fuels; to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation; or to restore ecosystem health;
(ii) Would not otherwise be used for higher-value products; and
(iii) Are harvested in accordance with applicable law and land management plans and the requirements for old-growth maintenance, restoration, and management direction of paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (e) of section 102 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6512) and large-tree retention of subsection (f) of section 102; or
(2) Any organic matter that is available on a renewable or recurring basis from non-Federal land or land belonging to an Indian or Indian tribe that is held in trust by the United States or subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States, including the following items:
(i) Renewable plant material (including feed grains, other agricultural commodities, other plants and trees, and algae); and
(ii) Waste material (including crop residue, other vegetative waste material (including wood waste and wood residues), animal waste and byproducts (including fats, oils, greases, and manure), and food and yard waste).
Renewable energy
means energy derived from—
(1) A wind, solar, renewable biomass, ocean (including tidal, wave, current, and thermal), geothermal or hydroelectric source; or
(2) Hydrogen derived from renewable biomass or water using an energy source described in paragraph (1) of this definition.
Renewable energy site assessment
means a report providing information regarding and recommendations for the use of commercially available renewable energy technologies in the borrower's operation. The report must be prepared by a qualified consultant for the specific energy system and project proposed.
Renewable energy system (RES)
means a system that produces usable energy from a renewable energy source. Co-firing with fossil fuels, natural gas or petroleum-based products or materials such as coal and other fuels, oils, chemicals, tires, or plastic are not eligible; and may include:
(1) Distribution components necessary to move energy produced by such system to the initial point of sale; and
(2) Other components and ancillary infrastructure of such system, such as a storage system; however, such system may not include a mechanism for dispensing energy at retail
e.g.,
a flexible fuel pump.
Report of loss
means an Agency-approved form used by lenders when reporting a financial loss under a guaranteed loan.
Retrofitting
means a modification to an existing building or installed equipment that incorporates a function or feature(s) not included in the original design when built or for the replacement of existing components with components that improve the original design and does not affect original warranty if the warranty is still in existence. Examples of retrofitting include:
(1) Installing newly designed blades to an existing wind turbine to enhance energy production.
(2) Adding equipment or processes to or altering or enhancing an existing RES to improve production, efficiency, or financial viability, such as a feedstock retreater on an existing biodiesel production plant;
(3) Adding a battery system to an existing RES;
(4) Installing a steam turbine at an ethanol plant, or;
(5) Installing a combined heat and power system for a pellet production facility.
Rural
and
rural area
means any area of a State not in a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H), according to the latest decennial census of the United States and not in the urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants. In making this determination, the Agency will use the latest decennial census of the United States. Applications cannot be approved subject to meeting rural area requirements. Locations that are contiguous and adjacent to an urbanized area will be delineated as a non-eligible area in the Rural Development Property Eligibility Map found at:
https://eligibility.sc.egov.usda.gov/eligibility/welcomeAction.do.
This map is maintained independently by another government agency and is oriented through census tract data. The following exclusions apply:
(1) Any area in the urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants that has been determined to be “rural in character” as follows:
(i) The determination that an area is “rural in character” will be made by the Under Secretary of Rural Development.
Rural in character requests and determinations are project specific; e.g.
, if approved, the determination does not apply to any future request made within the same area.
The process to request a determination under this provision is outlined in paragraph (1)(ii) of this definition. The determination that an area is “rural in character” under this definition will apply to areas that are within:
(A) An urbanized area that has two points on its boundary that are at least 40 miles apart, which is not contiguous or adjacent to a city or town that has a population of greater than 150,000 inhabitants or the urbanized area of such a city or town; or
(B) An urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town of greater
than 50,000 inhabitants that is within
1/4
mile of a rural area.
(ii) Units of local government may petition the Under Secretary of Rural Development for a “rural in character” designation by submitting a petition to the appropriate Rural Development State Director for recommendation to the Administrator on behalf of the Under Secretary. The petition shall document how the area meets the requirements of paragraph (1)(i)(A) or (B) of this definition and discuss why the petitioner believes the area is “rural in character,” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, and topography and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receiving a petition, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable governor or leader in a similar position and request comments to be submitted within 5 business days, unless such comments were submitted with the petition. The Under Secretary will release to the public a notice of a petition filed by a unit of local government not later than 30 days after receipt of the petition by way of publication in a local newspaper and posting on the Agency's website at
rd.usda.gov/onerdguarantee,
and the Under Secretary will make a determination not less than 15 days, but no more than 60 days, after the release of the notice. Upon a negative determination, the Under Secretary will provide to the petitioner an opportunity to appeal a determination to the Under Secretary, and the petitioner will have 10 business days to appeal the determination and provide further information for consideration. The Under Secretary will make a determination of the appeal in not less than 15 days, but no more than 30 days.
(iii) Rural Development State Directors may also initiate a request to the Under Secretary to determine if an area is “rural in character.” A written recommendation must document how the area meets the statutory requirements of paragraph (1)(i)(B) of this definition and discusses why the State Director believes the area is “rural in character,” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, topography, and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receipt of such a request, the Administrator will review the request for compliance with the “rural in character” provisions and make a recommendation to the Under Secretary. Provided a favorable determination is made, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable Governor and request comments within 10 business days, unless gubernatorial comments were submitted with the request. A public notice will be published by the State Office in accordance with paragraph (1)(ii) of this definition. There is no appeal process for requests made on the initiative of the State Director.
(2) An area that is attached to the urbanized area of a city or town with more than 50,000 inhabitants by a contiguous area of urbanized census blocks that is not more than two census blocks wide. Applicants from such an area should work with their Rural Development State Office to request a determination of whether their project is located in a rural area under this provision. This applies to areas that would not be considered a rural area because they are attached to the urbanized area of a city or town of greater than 50,000 inhabitants by a “string” area that is two census blocks wide or less (which are typically interstates or major highways). As long as the “string” area is two census blocks wide or less, the area outside of the urbanized area, beginning with the “string” area, may be considered rural. Once an area is approved as a string exception, any project within that area is eligible.
(3) For the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the island is considered Rural and eligible except for the San Juan Census Designated Place (CDP) and any other CDP with greater than 50,000 inhabitants. Areas within CDPs with greater than 50,000 inhabitants, other than the San Juan CDP, may be determined to be Rural if they are “not urban in character.”
(4) For the State of Hawaii, all areas within the State are considered rural and eligible except for the Honolulu CDP within the County of Honolulu and any other CDP with greater than 50,000 inhabitants. Areas within CDPs with greater than 50,000 inhabitants, other than the Honolulu CDP, may be
determined to be rural if they are “not urban in character.”
(5) For the purpose of defining a rural area in the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Agency shall determine what constitutes rural and rural Area based on available population data.
Rural small business
means a small business that is located in a rural area or that can demonstrate the proposed project for which assistance is being applied for under this part is located in a rural area.
Service area
means the area identified to be served.
Significant ties
means, as determined by the agency, a facility under private control will carry out a public purpose and continue to primarily serve rural areas for CF projects (not applicable to public bodies and Federally Recognized Tribes) as evidenced by the following: Association with or control by a public body or bodies; or Broadly based membership and controlled primarily by members residing in the project service area. Membership must be open without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, sexual orientation, or marital or familial status.
Simple payback
means the estimated simple payback of a project funded under this part as calculated using paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of this definition, as applicable.
(1) Energy efficiency improvement projects simple payback = (Total Project Costs) ÷ (Dollar value of energy saved).
(i) Energy saved will be determined by subtracting the projected energy (determined by the method in paragraph (1)(i)(B) of this definition) to be consumed from the historical energy consumed (determined by the method in paragraph (1)(i)(A) of this definition), and converting the result to a monetary value using a constant value or price of energy (determined by the method in paragraph (1)(i)(C) of this definition).
(A) Actual energy used in the original building and/or equipment, as applicable, prior to the EEI project, must be based on the actual average annual total energy used in British thermal units (BTU) over the most recent 12, 24, 36, 48, or 60 consecutive months of operation.
(B) Projected energy use if the proposed EEI project had been in place for the original building and/or equipment, as applicable, for the same time period used to determine that actual energy use under paragraph (1)(i)(A) of this definition.
(C) Value or price of energy must be the actual average price paid over the same time period used to calculate the actual energy used under paragraph (1)(i)(A) of this definition.
(ii) Energy efficiency improvement projects simple payback does not allow EEI to monetize benefits other than the dollar amount of the energy savings the agricultural producer or rural small business realizes as a result of the improvement.
(iii) Proposed additional energy consumption by a business which would result in greater savings if implemented is not considered in the payback calculation.
(2) Renewable energy systems projects simple payback = (total project costs) ÷ (dollar value of energy units replaced, credited, sold, or used and fair market value of byproducts as applicable in a typical year).
(i) Value of energy replaced will be calculated based on the borrower entity's historical energy consumption with actual average price paid for the energy replaced, following the methodology outlined in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition RES replacement projects which generate more energy than the applicant's historical records document, may add to the replacement value, the value obtained by taking the excess energy generated times a documented market price in order to derive at total dollar value of energy units replaced, credited, sold, or used.
(ii) Value of energy credited or sold will be calculated based on the amount of energy units to be sold at the proposed rate per unit, as documented in utility net metering or crediting policies and/or a purchase agreement.
(iii) If proposed energy will be used in a new facility (includes any direct-use project), value of energy used will be
calculated based on the amount of energy units to be used at the documented price per unit of conventional fuel alternative.
(iv) Value of byproducts produced by and used in the project or related enterprises should be documented at the fair market value to be received for the byproducts in a typical year.
(v) Renewable energy systems projects simple payback does not include any one-time benefits such as but not limited to construction and investment-related benefits, nor credits which do not provide annual income to the project, such as tax credits. These benefits may be considered when appropriate for calculating repayment ability of guaranteed loans.
(vi) For RES projects that involve a shared meter with a residence where the cost of the system has been prorated, only the eligible prorated amount of energy attributed to the rural business or agricultural producer will be used in the payback calculation. For projects that involve in-eligible expenses other than residential, the full amount of energy production will be used in the payback calculation.
(3) Energy efficiency equipment and systems projects simple payback = (total project costs) ÷ (dollar value of efficiency savings). Efficiency savings will be determined by subtracting the annual value of energy to be consumed by the proposed energy efficient equipment from the annual value of energy that a conventional equipment alternative would have consumed. Adequate documentation must be provided for all consumption estimates and values utilized in the calculation.
Small business
means an entity that meets the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition:
(1) An entity or utility, as applicable, as further defined in paragraphs (1)(i) through (iv) of this definition and meeting the requirements in paragraph (2) of this definition. With the exception of the entities identified in this paragraph, all other non-profit entities are not small businesses for the purposes of REAP program eligibility:
(i) A private for-profit entity, including a sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation. The application must sufficiently describe the operations of the applicant's business entity;
(ii) A cooperative (including a cooperative qualified under section 501(c)(12) of the Internal Revenue Code);
(iii) An electric utility (including a Tribal or governmental electric utility) that provides service to rural consumers and operates independent of direct government control; or
(iv) A Tribal corporation or other Tribal business entities that are chartered under Section 17 of the Indian Reorganization Act (25 U.S.C. 5124) or have similar structures and relationships with their Tribal governments and are acceptable to the Agency. The Agency will determine the small business status of such Tribal entity without regard to the resources of the Tribal government. This means that only the applicant entity must meet the definition of a small business; and
(2) An entity that meets the requirements of (i) or (ii) below:
(i) The Small Business Administration size standards in accordance with 13 CFR 121.301(a), and any successor regulation. The size of the applicant alone (without affiliates) must not exceed the size standard designated for the industry in which the applicant is primarily engaged. Also, the size of the applicant combined with its affiliates must not exceed the size standard designated for either the primary industry of the applicant alone or the primary industry of the applicant and its affiliates, whichever is higher. Size standards to be utilized are found in 13 CFR 121.201, and any successor regulation. The size standards themselves are expressed either in number of employees or annual receipts in millions of dollars, unless otherwise specified. The number of employees or annual receipts indicates the maximum allowed for an entity and its affiliates and are calculated using the following criteria:
(A) The number of employees is calculated using the guidance found in 13 CFR 121.106, and any successor regulation. The average number of employees is used based upon number of employees for each of the pay periods for the preceding 24 months. Part-time and temporary employees are counted as full-time employees. If the entity has
not been in business for 24 months, the average number of employees is used for each of the pay periods during which it has been in business; or
(B) Annual receipts are calculated using the guidance found in 13 CFR 121.104, and any successor regulation. Federal income tax returns and any amendments filed with the IRS on or before the date of application must be used. If an entity has not filed a Federal income tax return, the Agency will calculate the entities annual receipts using any other available information such as regular books of account, or audited financial statements; or
(ii) The size standard outlined in 13 CFR 121.301(b)(2), and any successor regulation. Including its affiliates, the entity must not have a tangible net worth in excess of $20 million, and average net income after Federal income taxes (excluding carry over losses) for the preceding two completed fiscal year not in excess of $6.5 million.
State
means any of the 50 States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
State bond banks
and
State bond pools
mean an entity authorized by the State to issue State debt instruments and use the funds received to finance eligible projects under this part.
Steady state operating level
means that there is an adequate and consistent supply of the applicable renewable energy resource(s) for the project, both on a short-term (current) and long-term basis, and the renewable energy system and process(es) are operating at projected capacity, consistently yielding an adequate quantity and quality of renewable energy.
Subordination
means the reduction of the lender's lien priority on certain assets pledged by the borrower to secure payment of the guaranteed loan to a position junior to, or on parity with, the lien position of another loan.
Total eligible project costs
means the sum of all eligible project costs.
Total project costs
means the sum of all costs associated with a completed project. All costs associated with a completed project, including ineligible project costs, must be included. Total project costs for retrofitting an existing RES includes the costs associated with the modifications or replacement of the existing components.
Transfer and assumption
means the Agency-approved conveyance by a borrower to an assuming borrower of the assets, collateral, and liabilities of the borrower in return for the assuming borrower's binding promise to pay the outstanding debt.
Underserved communities
mean communities (including urban or rural communities and Indian tribal communities) that have limited access to affordable, healthy foods, including fresh fruits and vegetables, in grocery retail stores or farmer-to-consumer direct markets and that have either a high rate of hunger or food insecurity or a high poverty rate as reflected in the most recent decennial census or other Agency-approved census. For purposes of awarding priority points, when applicable, this definition shall also include unserved or underserved populations, including minorities or protected groups, persistent poverty areas, or areas where Rural Development projects have not been awarded in the past five years. High poverty rate is based on current census data and is not the same as persistent poverty which uses data for the last 30 years.
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP)
means the appraisal standards promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation.
Used equipment
means any equipment that has been used and is provided in an “as is” condition.
Useful life
means estimated durations of utility placed on a variety of assets, including buildings, machinery, equipment, vehicles, electronics, and furniture. Useful life estimations terminate at the point when assets are expected to become obsolete, require major repairs, or cease to deliver economical results.
Veteran
means a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service and was discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than
dishonorable as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2).
Waste disposal
means sanitary sewer (treatment and collection), solid waste, or storm drainage facilities.
Working Capital
means current assets available to support a business' operations and growth. Working capital is calculated as current assets less current liabilities.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62196, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 70354, Dec. 10, 2021; 87 FR 38645, June 29, 2022; 89 FR 79704, Sept. 30, 2024; 89 FR 97477, Dec. 9, 2024]
§ 5001.4
Exception authority.
The Administrator may, on a case-by-case basis, grant an exception to any requirement or provision of this subpart provided that such an exception is in the best financial interests of the Federal Government. Exercise of this authority cannot be in conflict with applicable law.
§ 5001.5
Appeal and review rights.
Borrowers, lenders, and holders may have appeal or review rights for Agency decisions made under this part. Agency decisions that are adverse to the individual participant are appealable, while matters of general applicability are not subject to appeal; however, such decisions are reviewable for appealability by the National Appeals Division (NAD). All appeals will be conducted by NAD and will be handled in accordance with 7 CFR part 11.
(a) The borrower, lender, and holder can appeal any Agency decision that directly and adversely affects them.
(1) For an adverse decision that affects the borrower, the lender and borrower must jointly execute a written request for appeal of an adverse decision made by the Agency.
(2) An adverse decision that affects only the lender can be appealed by the lender only.
(3) An adverse decision that affects only the holder can be appealed by the holder only.
(b) In cases where the Agency has denied or reduced the amount of final loss payment to the lender, the adverse decision can be appealed only by the lender.
(c) A decision by a lender adverse to the interest of the borrower is not a decision by the Agency, even if it was concurred in by the Agency, and therefore cannot be reviewed for appealability or appealed to NAD.
§ 5001.6
General lender responsibilities.
(a) Lenders are responsible for originating and servicing loans guaranteed by the Agency under this part in accordance with the provisions of this part and, for those guaranteed loans issued under one of the guaranteed loan programs identified in § 5001.1(a)(1) through (4), with the provisions of the applicable guaranteed loan program. Any action or inaction on the part of the Agency does not relieve the lender of its responsibilities.
(b) Lenders can contract for services, but such contracting does not relieve a lender from its responsibilities as identified in this part or, where applicable, in the applicable guaranteed loan program identified in § 5001.1.
(c) If a lender fails to comply with the requirements of this part, the Agency may reduce any loss payment in accordance with the lender's agreement and loan note guarantee.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79708, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.7
Agency's special initiatives.
Applicants submitting applications that support the implementation of strategic or special initiatives are encouraged to review the Agency's annual notice to determine if their projects are eligible for receiving priority for projects. These projects may also support the implementation of strategic economic development and community development plans on a multi-jurisdictional and multi-sectoral basis in accordance with section 6401 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Pub. L. 115-334).
[89 FR 79708, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.8
Approvals, regulations, and forms.
(a) When Agency approval or concurrence is required, it must be in writing
and must be obtained prior to any action taken for which approval or concurrence is required. Written communication from an authorized Agency official, including any written communication approving, concurring, or otherwise communicating an Agency decision on a matter when such decision is required, may be transmitted via an electronic Agency system in accordance with Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (ESIGN) of 2000 (114 Stat. 464) (E-Sign Act).
(b) All references to statutes and regulations include any and all successor statutes and regulations.
(c) All references to forms include any and all predecessor and successor forms as specified by the Agency.
(d) Copies of all regulations and forms referenced in this part can be obtained through the Agency and from the Agency's website at
https://www.rd.usda.gov/onerdguaranteed.
(e) 7 CFR part 5001 does not prohibit or consent to electronic signatures. Rural Development will accept electronic signatures from lenders for origination, loan closing, and servicing documents in accordance with the E-Sign Act unless otherwise prohibited by law or program. Lenders may use electronic signatures for electronic promissory notes (eNotes), deeds of trust and other documents relevant to the loan transaction, providing that the lender perfects and maintains a first lien position, an enforceable promissory note, and meets all other agency requirements including the following:
(1) Lenders may submit forms to Rural Development electronically using USDA's Service Center Agencies Online Services website. Registration is limited to individuals and each individual authorized by the lender must register and upon registration may electronically sign and submit certain forms on behalf of the lender.
(2) Lenders who choose to accept electronic signatures from borrowers must ensure that such signatures meet the standards and requirements set forth in the E-Sign Act, as well as all other applicable federal and state regulations and guidelines. Lenders are charged with the same responsibility of due diligence with electronically signed documents as they are with paper documents. If any electronically signed document is deemed unenforceable and is connected to any fraud, misrepresentation or negligent servicing, the lender bears the risk that any loss claim submitted in relation to the unenforceable document will be denied or reduced in accordance with applicable regulations. Any loss attributed to a lender's failure to collect on the promissory note or enforce the security instrument because of its electronic signature will be treated as negligent servicing under 7 CFR 5001 servicing regulations. Failure to comply with any Federal statute or regulation could result in the denial of a loan guarantee or claim, withdrawal of lending authority and/or debarment from Federal programs.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 70355, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79708, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.9
Standards for financial information.
(a) All financial information (
e.g.,
financial statements, balance sheets, financial projections, and income statements) must be prepared and submitted in accordance with accounting practices acceptable to the Agency. Such practices can include, but are not limited to, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the industry's standard accounting practice. Unless the applicant or borrower meets the threshold for an audit in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 subpart F, the type of financial statement,
e.g.,
borrower prepared, compiled, reviewed, or audited, required is typically the decision of the lender.
(b) For sole proprietorships and other situations where business assets are held personally, financial statements must be prepared using only the assets and liabilities directly attributable to the applicant's project. For these situations, assets, plus any improvements, must be valued at the lower of cost or market value.
(c) A tax return is not an acceptable financial statement when underwriting a loan guaranteed under this part; however, tax return information may be
used to prepare financial statements and to determine REAP eligibility.
[89 FR 79708, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.10
Federal Register notices and amendments.
Rural Development will issue annual
Federal Register
notices each year specifying the amount of funds available under this part for OneRD guarantees. Notices may also include the following information applicable to projects specifically funded under a particular notice: Maximum loan amounts, fees, and priority scoring for discretionary points.
§§ 5001.11-5001.99
[Reserved]
§ 5001.100
OMB control number.
The report and recordkeeping requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget and have been assigned OMB control number 0572-0155.

# Subpart B—Eligibility Provisions
§ 5001.101
Introduction.
This subpart addresses the eligibility provisions for projects, borrowers, and lenders. This subpart also includes provisions for projects involving the purchase of cooperative stock or cooperative equity, the conversion of businesses to cooperatives or Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOP), and New Markets Tax Credits (NMTC).
(a)
Project eligibility.
Sections 5001.102 through 5001.108 identify requirements for projects to be eligible to receive a loan guarantee under this part. Sections 5001.115 through 5001.119 identify types of projects that are not eligible for a loan guarantee under this part. The Agency will not issue a loan guarantee under this part for any project that does not meet the applicable eligibility criteria as specified.
(b)
Borrower eligibility.
Section 5001.126 identifies the types of borrowers that are eligible to receive a loan guarantee for their projects under this part. The types of borrowers eligible to receive loan guarantees for their projects vary based on the guaranteed loan program they are applying under and that guaranteed loan program's authorizing statute as set forth in § 5001.1. Section 5001.127 identifies conditions that would make an otherwise eligible borrower ineligible for receiving a loan guarantee for its project under this part.
(c)
Lender eligibility.
Section 5001.130 identifies the requirements for a lending entity to be an eligible lender under this part. Section 5001.131 addresses the lender's agreement, which each approved lender must execute with the Agency in order to originate and service guaranteed loans under this part. Section 5001.132 addresses provisions necessary for a lender to maintain its approved lender status.
(d)
Cooperative stock/cooperative equity/conversions.
Section 5001.140 identifies requirements associated with issuing loan guarantees in connection with the purchase of cooperative stock, transferable stock shares, and cooperative equity and for the conversions of businesses to either cooperatives or Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOP).
(e)
New Markets Tax Credits.
Section 5001.141 identifies the requirements specific to guaranteed loans involving projects that include NMTC available under the NMTC program authorized by the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(f)
Use of funds.
Section 5001.121 identifies eligible uses of guaranteed loan funds and § 5001.122 identifies ineligible uses of guaranteed loan funds.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79709, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.102
Project eligibility—general.
To be eligible for a loan guarantee under this part, a project must meet the requirements specified in this section and those in the applicable section in §§ 5001.103 through 5001.108.
(a)
Service area.
For projects with a defined service area, the boundaries for the proposed service area must be chosen in such a way that no user or area will be excluded because of race, color, religion, sex, marital status, age, disability, or national origin. This does not preclude financing or constructing:
(1) Projects in phases (each phase must be financially sustainable without consideration of future phases) when it is not practical to finance or construct the entire project at one time; and
(2) Projects where it is not economically feasible to serve the entire service area, provided the economic feasibility is determined on the basis of the entire system or facility and not by considering the cost of separate extensions to, or parts thereof.
(b)
Location.
A project must be located in a State and meet the rural or rural area requirements of the applicable section in §§ 5001.103 through 5001.108.
(c)
Tax-exempt financing.
The agency is prohibited from guaranteeing a project funded with tax-exempt financing. In cases where a project involves both tax-exempt and taxable financing, the portion of the project that involves taxable financing is eligible to receive a loan guarantee if that portion of the project is separate and distinct from the part that is financed by the tax-exempt obligation, and the guaranteed loan is not essential to issuance of the tax-exempt obligation.
(d)
Debt refinancing.
The Agency can guarantee loans for debt refinancing, as described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section when the guaranteed loan extinguishes the debt being refinanced. These paragraphs do not apply to REAP loans, see § 5001.121(d)(14) for REAP refinancing provisions. Longer-term financing to pay off a lender's interim construction loan after project completion will not be treated as debt refinancing as long as it meets the requirements for takeout of interim financing in § 5001.121(c)(6). An eligible debt refinancing project is:
(1) Refinancing of debt on one or more loans owed to another creditor. There is no limit on percent of total use of funds if a new lender is refinancing debt owed to another creditor;
(2) Refinancing of debt owed to the applicant lender or any part thereof provided that the applicant lender debt being refinanced does not exceed 50 percent of the total use of funds in the new aggregated federally-guaranteed debt, the applicant lender debt being refinanced is in a current status for the past six months and the new guaranteed loan is providing better rates or repayment terms. Better rates or repayment terms can be shown in a variety of ways including the lender providing a fixed rate over a lower variable rate provided the change is advantageous to the borrower's long-term repayment ability. The current status cannot be achieved by the lender forgiving the borrower's debt or by servicing actions that impact the borrower's repayment schedule; or
(3) Refinancing of debt owed directly to the Federal Government or that is federally-guaranteed, including any guaranteed debt owed to the applicant lender, when a refinance of this debt is consistent with sections 333, “Special Conditions and Limitations on Loans” and 306(a)(24)(C), “Loan Guarantees for Water, Wastewater, and Essential Community Facilities Loans” of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (as amended by the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, Pub. L. 115-334). Such guaranteed debt shall not be included in the amount of applicant lender debt when calculating the maximum percentage of the total use of funds in the new guaranteed loan as stated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and,
(4) When the refinancing is in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section, the following requirements must be met:
(i) The Agency has determined that the project is viable, and debt refinancing is necessary to improve cash flow;
(ii) The debt is reflected on the borrower's balance sheet and the original loan funds were used for project-eligible purposes. Refinancing of existing of lines of credit is considered an eligible purpose for debt refinancing in the B
I program;
(iii) For loans to existing businesses where debt refinancing is a majority purpose of the guaranteed loan, the borrower must demonstrate historical debt service coverage ratios using proposed debt service requirements of not less than 1.1 times, or the borrower's current financial performance demonstrates it has corrected or recovered from impacts or issues adversely affecting its past financial performance. The debt service coverage ratio computed based on the current income statement must be at least 1:1 to demonstrate correction or recovery.
(5) For CF guaranteed loan requests only, refinancing of debt, not including new construction, incurred by a rural hospital to preserve access to a health service when the refinancing will meaningfully improve the financial position of the hospital. The debt can be existing Agency direct loan debt, Agency guaranteed debt, or another lender's debt (including other non-Agency Federal guaranteed debt). Loan requests to refinance rural hospital debt must demonstrate that the new amount of annual debt repayment on the debt being refinanced will be less than the existing amount of annual debt repayment and provide a total debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.1 based on historical cash flow. To calculate the ratio, the new debt service amount will include annual capital expense reserve and annual debt repayment reserve requirements. This information will be provided by the lender on an Agency approved application for loan guarantee and its associated supporting documentation.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62196, Oct. 2, 2020; 89 FR 79709, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.103
Eligible CF projects and requirements.
For a CF projects to be eligible for a loan guarantee under this part, it must meet the criteria specified in § 5001.102 and this section and be for a borrower eligible to submit an application for the project in accordance with § 5001.126.
(a)
Type of project.
The project must be for the construction, enlargement, extension, or to otherwise improve an essential community facility. Essential community facilities include, but are not limited to:
(1) Health care facilities and services, including but not limited to hospitals and assisted living facilities providing daily living and health care assistance in compliance with Federal, Tribal and/or State licensure or certification requirements;
(2) Fire, rescue, and public safety facilities and services;
(3) Community, public, social, educational, or cultural facilities or services, including but not limited to:
(i) Business incubators when not an inherently commercial enterprise, and the applicant demonstrates the following:
(A) Applicant is a mission-driven organization such as a local or regional economic development organization;
(B) The facility will be used to provide technical assistance, training, workforce development, administrative support services and vocational training to address workforce shortages in the community or region; and
(C) Capacity building and support services that include at a minimum the following with the borrower demonstrating expertise in one or more of these services or presents a sustainable economically feasible program to outsource such activities:
(
1
) Business plan development;
(
2
) Administrative support services;
(
3
) Training and technical assistance;
(
4
) Mentoring, coaching, and leadership;
(
5
) Finance and accounting workshops;
(
6
) Programs to access capital; and
(
7
) High-speed internet access;
(ii) Thrift stores that operate as charitable organizations to enrich the quality of life for residents of the rural community they serve demonstrated by the following activities:
(A) Collect and resell used or donated merchandise to community residents and may also provide other services such as job training or food pantries;
(B) Receive donations, gifts, or bequests of money to help fund the organization and its purpose with a significant portion obtained from the rural community it serves.
(C) Profits are reinvested in the facility or in charitable activities in the rural community served to ensure the goals of the organization are met.
(iii) Fairgrounds, agricultural exposition centers, farmers markets, food distribution and food banks;
(4) Transportation facilities such as streets, bridges, roads, ports, and airports;
(5) Utility projects such as hydroelectric generating facilities and related connecting systems and appurtenances; supplemental and supporting
structures for other rural electrification or telephone systems including facilities such as headquarters, office buildings, storage facilities, and maintenance shops when not eligible for RUS financing; natural gas distribution systems; and recycling or transfer centers or stations.
(6) Telecommunications end-user equipment as it relates to public safety, medical, or educational telecommunications links when not eligible for RUS financing;
(7) Water infrastructure facilities such as levees, dams, reservoirs, inland waterways, canals, and irrigation systems;
(8) The purchase and installation of renewable energy systems for use by an essential community facility when:
(i) The renewable energy system will help defray the cost of facility operation over the life of the system;
(ii) The renewable energy system will improve the borrower's ability to provide the underlying essential community service, such as providing backup facilities or extending fuel supplies of backup facilities;
(iii) The borrower does not, and will not, have any contract to sell power generated by the renewable energy system; however, receiving credit for excess production is permitted;
(iv) The borrower does not anticipate, and has no plan for, generation of more energy than it will use in a consecutive 12-month period. The borrower may receive credits from a utility for energy production that happens to exceed facility usage during a particular month;
(v) The renewable energy system is commercially available with proven operating history specific to the proposed application; and
(vi) The borrower provides a technical report as part of the financial feasibility study in accordance with § 5001.307(e) (1) and (2), as applicable of subpart D.
(9) Land acquisition and necessary site preparation including access ways and utility extensions to and throughout an industrial park site; and
(10) Community parks, community activity centers, and similar types of facilities that are an integral part of the orderly development of a community (meaning a development that is addressing a need in the community). Recreational components including, but not limited to, playground equipment of an otherwise non-recreational eligible community facility such as childcare, educational, or health care facilities are also eligible.
(b)
Public use.
All facilities financed under the provisions of this section will be for public use.
(1) To demonstrate availability for public use, the borrower may not restrict use of or membership to its facility or service based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, or marital or familial status Veterans of Foreign Wars and American Legion post facilities must be open and available for use by appointment or lease to community residents or groups.
(c)
Project location.
The project must be located in a rural area as defined in § 5001.3 of this part, except that utility projects serving both rural and non-rural areas are eligible for a loan guarantee regardless of project location. For such utility projects, the Agency will guarantee the rural area portion of the project and only the portion of the project necessary to provide the essential services to rural areas. The part of the facility located in a non-rural area must be necessary to provide the essential services to rural areas. The availability of funds for CF projects is contingent on its rural area population and the reservation of funds outlined in § 5001.316(e).
(d)
Leased space.
Eligible projects may include leased space to ineligible organizations or leased space used for ineligible commercial activities provided the floor space leased to ineligible organizations or used for ineligible commercial activity is less than 25 percent of the facility's floor space. The ineligible organization and the ineligible commercial activity must be related to and enhance the primary purpose of the eligible project. Examples include a hair salon in an assisted living facility, or a pharmacy in a medical facility.
(e)
Purchase of existing facility.
When the project is to otherwise improve an essential community facility through the purchase of an existing facility as
defined in § 5001.3 the following are required:
(1) An appraisal which demonstrates the purchase price is fair and reasonable and represents the market value of the facility through an arm's length transaction; and
(2) If the transaction is necessary to improve the facility, documentation of the improvements that will be required and the plan, including source of funding, to complete those improvements within a reasonable timeframe; or
(3) If the transaction is necessary to prevent a loss of service, documentation in the form of a financial analysis that demonstrates the seller will not have the financial means to continue to operate the facility and provide the needed services.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79709, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.104
Eligible WWD projects and requirements.
For a WWD project to be eligible for a loan guarantee under this part, it must meet the criteria specified in
§
5001.102 and this section and be for a borrower eligible to submit an application for the project in accordance with § 5001.126.
(a)
Type of project.
The project must be for one or more of the following facilities:
(1) Drinking water facilities, including but not limited to water source, treatment and distribution;
(2) Sanitary sewage facilities, including but not limited to collection and treatment;
(3) Solid waste facilities; or,
(4) Stormwater facilities.
(b)
Public use.
The project must be for a public purpose.
(c)
Project location.
The project must be located in a rural area as defined in § 5001.3 of this part, except that utility projects serving both rural and non-rural areas are eligible for a loan guarantee regardless of project location. For utility service projects serving both rural and non-rural areas, the Agency will guarantee only the portion of the project necessary to provide the essential services to rural areas. The part of the facility located in a non-rural area must be necessary to provide the essential services to rural areas.
(d)
Service area.
(1) The project must be installed to serve any user within the service area who desires service and can be feasibly and legally served.
(2) The lender must determine that, when feasible and legally possible, inequities within the project's service area for the same type service proposed will be remedied by the borrower on, or before, completion of the project. Inequities are defined as unjustified variations in availability, adequacy, or quality of service. User rate schedules for portions of existing systems or facilities that were developed under different financing, rates, terms, or conditions do not necessarily constitute inequities.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 70355, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79710, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.105
Eligible B
I projects and requirements.
For a B
I project to be eligible for a loan guarantee under this part, it must meet the criteria specified in § 5001.102, be for a borrower eligible to submit an application for the project in accordance with § 5001.126, and the uses of loan funds include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of the project must be to improve, develop, or finance business, industry, and employment and improve the economic and environmental climate in rural communities; the conservation, development, and use of water for aquaculture purposes; and reducing reliance on nonrenewable energy resources through development and construction of solar energy and other renewable energy systems.
(b)
Type of project.
The project must be for one or more of the uses described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (22) of this section.
(1) Purchase and development of land, buildings, or infrastructure for public or private commercial enterprises or industrial properties, including expansion or modernization.
(2) Business acquisitions, start-ups, and expansions if jobs will be created or saved. A business acquisition is considered the acquisition of an entire
business, not a partial stock acquisition in a business. However, acquisition or change of ownership between existing owners is an eligible project when the remaining owner(s) held their ownership and actively participated in the business operation for at least the past 24 months and the selling owner will not retain any ownership interest in the business directly or indirectly including through other entities or trusts or property rights.
(3) Purchase and installation of machinery and equipment.
(4) Startup costs, working capital, inventory, and supplies in the form of a permanent working capital term loan.
(5) Pollution control and abatement.
(6) Purchase of membership, stocks, bonds, or debentures necessary to obtain a loan from a member owned lending institution provided the purchase is required for all their borrowers and is the minimum amount required.
(7) Agricultural production, when not eligible for Farm Service Agency (FSA) farm loan programs assistance and when it is part of an integrated business also involved in the processing of agricultural products. Any agricultural production considered for guaranteed loan financing must be owned, operated, and maintained by the business receiving the guaranteed loan. Examples of potentially eligible agricultural production include but are not limited to an apple orchard in conjunction with a food processing plant; poultry buildings linked to a meat processing operation; or sugar beet production coupled with storage and processing.
(8) Tourist and recreation facilities, including hotels, motels, bed and breakfast establishments, and resort trailer parks and campgrounds operated as a public or private commercial enterprise. Owner-occupied housing, such as bed and breakfasts, hotels and motels are only allowed when the pro rata value of a direct owner's living quarters, based on square footage, is deducted from the use of loan proceeds.
(9) Educational or training facilities including other CF projects when not eligible for financing through Rural Housing Service or Community Facilities programs.
(10) Development and construction of broadband and telecommunication systems, including modification of existing systems, that are not otherwise eligible for funding in the RUS program or if funding is unavailable in the RUS program, subject to the public notice filing requirements of 7 CFR 1738.106(a) and the additional reporting requirements of 7 CFR 1738.107.
(11) Industries undergoing adjustment from terminated Federal agricultural price and income support programs or increased competition from foreign trade.
(12) Constructing or equipping facilities for lease to private businesses engaged in commercial or industrial operations.
(13) Financing for mixed-use properties involving both commercial business and residential space is authorized, provided that not less than 50 percent of the business's projected revenue will be generated from business use.
(14) Leasehold improvements when the lease contains no reverter clauses or restrictive clauses that would impair the use or value of the property as security for the loan. The term of the lease must be equal to or greater than the term of the loan. Leasehold improvements are physical enhancements made to property by or on behalf of the property's lessee. When improvements are made to real property and those improvements are permanently affixed to the property, the title to those improvements automatically transfers to the owner of the property upon termination of the lease.
(15) Projects that process, distribute, aggregate, store, and/or market locally or regionally produced agricultural food products to support community development and farm and ranch income.
(i) Subject to each of the following, projects may be located in non-rural areas as well as in rural areas if the project:
(A) Expands or preserves the availability of staple food in underserved areas with moderate and low-income populations by maintaining or increasing the number of retail or institutional outlets that offer an assortment of healthy perishable foods and staple food items;
(B) The project will create or retain quality jobs for low-income residents of the community;
(C) A significant amount of the food is locally or regionally produced and sold; and
(D) Includes an appropriate agreement with retail and institutional clients to inform consumers that they are purchasing or consuming locally or regionally produced agricultural food products. The agreement(s) must be in place prior to issuance of the loan note guarantee and stated as part of the lender's certification at loan closing.
(ii) The Agency will give funding priority to projects that provide a benefit to underserved communities in accordance with § 5001.318(d)(5) of this part.
(16) The purchase of cooperative stock by individual farmers or ranchers in a farmer or rancher cooperative or the purchase of transferable cooperative stock in accordance with § 5001.140(a) and (b); or the purchase of stock in a business by employees forming an ESOP or worker cooperative in accordance with § 5001.140(d).
(17) The purchase of preferred stock or similar equity issued by a cooperative or a loan to a fund that invests primarily in cooperatives in accordance with § 5001.140(c).
(18) Loans to cooperatives:
(i) Guaranteed loans to eligible cooperatives may be made in principal amounts up to $40 million if the project is located in a rural area, the cooperative facility being financed provides for the value-added processing of agricultural commodities, and the total amount of guaranteed loans exceeding $25 million does not exceed 10 percent of the funds available for the fiscal year. Guaranteed loans in excess of $25 million in accordance with this provision may only be approved by the Secretary, whose authority may not be redelegated.
(ii) Guaranteed loans to eligible cooperatives may also be made in non-rural areas provided:
(A) The primary purpose of the guaranteed loan is for a facility to provide value-added processing for agricultural producers that are located within 80 miles of the facility;
(B) The borrower satisfactorily demonstrates that the primary benefit of the guaranteed loan will be to provide employment for rural residents;
(C) The principal amount of the guaranteed loan does not exceed $25 million; and
(D) The total amount of guaranteed loans guaranteed under this paragraph does not exceed 10 percent of the funds available for the fiscal year.
(iii) An eligible cooperative may refinance an existing B
I guaranteed loan if the existing loan is current and performing, the existing loan is not and has not been in monetary default or the collateral has not been converted, and there is adequate security and collateral for the new guaranteed loan.
(19) Taxable corporate bonds when the bonds are fully amortizing and comply with all provisions of this part, bond proceeds were used for an eligible purpose in this part, and the lender as bond holder retains the percent of the bond in accordance with § 5001.408(3)(i) of this part. The bonds must be fully secured with collateral in accordance with § 5001.202(b)(4) of this part. The bonds must only provide for a trustee when the trustee is totally under the control of the lender. The bonds must provide no rights to bond holders other than the right to receive the payments due under the bond. For instance, the bonds must not provide for bond holders replacing the trustee or directing the trustee to take servicing actions, such as accelerating the bonds. In accordance with § 5001.127(f), convertible bonds are not eligible under this paragraph due to the potential conflict of interest of a lender having an ownership interest in the borrower. An explanation of the type of bond and other bond stipulations must be attached to the bond.
(i) The bond issuer must obtain the services and opinion of an experienced bond counsel, who must present a legal opinion stating that the bonds are legal, valid, and binding obligations of the issuer and that the issuer has adhered to all applicable laws.
(ii) The bond holder (lender) must purchase all the bonds issued pursuant to the guaranteed and comply with all Agency regulations. There must be a bond purchase agreement between the issuer and the bond holder. The bond
purchase agreement must contain similar language to that required in a loan agreement and must not conflict with this part. The bond holder is responsible for all servicing of the guaranteed loan evidenced by the bond, although the bond holder may contract for servicing assistance, including contracting with a trustee who remains under the lender's total control.
(20) Nursing homes and assisted living facilities where constant medical care is provided and available onsite to the residents. Independent living facilities are not eligible in accordance with § 5001.118(a). Independent living facilities are considered residential property as they have many similarities to a multi-family housing complex, whereas nursing home and assisted living facility tenants rely on those entities to provide needed personal or medical care. Properties consisting of both assisted care facilities and independent senior living may be eligible if the availability of the on-site medical services is an optional service to the independent living residents, or if the predominant residents of the facility require assisted living care.
(21) Development and construction of RES, including modification of existing systems that are commercially available and that are not otherwise eligible under REAP, or if funding is not available in the REAP program.
(22) Integrated processing equipment and systems, such as biorefineries, renewable energy systems, and chemical manufacturing facilities, must utilize commercially available technology, equipment, and systems and demonstrate technical merit. The Agency will evaluate the following areas in making the technical merit determination:
(i) Qualifications of the project team;
(ii) Agreements and permits;
(iii) Resource assessment;
(iv) Design and engineering;
(v) Project development;
(vi) Equipment procurement and installation; and
(vii) Operations and maintenance. The demonstration of technical merit is the completion of two operating cycles at its designed production level. “Operating cycle” is the average time between the acquisition of materials or the providing of services and the final cash realization of that acquisition or provision of services.
(c)
Facility location.
The project must be located in a rural area, except for loans to cooperative in accordance with paragraph (b)(18)(ii) of this section and for loans to local foods projects in accordance with paragraph (b)(15)(i) of this section where such projects may also be located in non-rural areas. For an eligible project that located in both rural and non-rural areas, the Agency will guarantee only the amount necessary to finance that portion of the project located in the eligible rural area.
(d)
Capital and equity.
Borrowers are required to have sufficient capital or equity to mitigate the ongoing financial and operational risks of the business. The capital/equity requirement must be met in the form of either cash or earning assets contributed to the business and reflected on the borrower's balance sheet. Transfers of assets at fair market value between related parties, which are not arm's length transactions, must be in accordance with GAAP and require evidence that the transaction was entered into at market terms. Equity cannot include appraisal surplus or bargain purchase gains. Subordinated debt may be included when the subordinated debt is in exchange for cash injected into the business that remains in the business for the life of the guaranteed loan. The note or other form of evidence must be submitted to the Agency in order for subordinated debt to count towards meeting the balance sheet equity requirement. Balance sheet equity will be determined based upon current and projected borrower financial statements. A balance sheet as of loan closing is required and should reflect the new debt and use of proceeds. If there are multiple borrowers, consolidated financial statements should be presented. The following capital and equity requirements must be met at the time of lender's closing of the guaranteed loan.
(1) Existing businesses must meet one of the following requirements:
(i) A minimum of 10 percent balance sheet equity (including subordinated
debt when subject to a standstill agreement for the life of the loan), or a maximum debt-to-balance sheet equity ratio of 9 to 1, at loan closing;
(ii) A 10 percent or more of total eligible project costs, borrower investment of equity or other funds into the project including grants or subordinated debt when subject to a standstill agreement for the life of the loan;
(iii) Owner contributed capital, as reflected in the equity section of the balance sheet, that is equal to or greater than 10 percent of net total fixed assets plus depreciation.
(2) New businesses with sales contract(s) with proceeds in an amount adequate to meet debt service and the term of the sales contract(s) are at least equal to the term of the guaranteed loan, and subject to Agency acceptance of the credit worthiness of the counterparty, the borrower must meet one of the following requirements:
(i) A minimum of 10 percent balance sheet equity (including subordinated debt when subject to a standstill agreement for the life of the loan), or a maximum debt-to-balance sheet equity ratio of 9 to 1 at loan closing; or
(ii) Borrower investment of equity or other funds (including subordinated debt when subject to a standstill agreement for the life of the loan and grants) into the project in an amount of 10 percent or more of total eligible project cost;
(3) New businesses with a project involving construction and when the lender will request the loan note guarantee prior to completion of construction must meet one of the following requirements:
(i) A minimum of 25 percent balance sheet equity (including subordinated debt when subject to a standstill agreement for the life of the loan), or a maximum debt-to-equity ratio of 3 to 1, at guaranteed loan closing; or
(ii) Borrower investment of equity or other funds (including subordinated debt when subject to a standstill agreement for the life of the loan and grants) into the project in an amount of 25 percent or more of total eligible project cost;
(4) All other borrowers that are new businesses must meet one of the following requirements:
(i) A minimum of 20 percent balance sheet equity (including subordinated debt when subject to a standstill agreement for the life of the loan), or a maximum debt-to-equity ratio of 4 to 1, at guaranteed loan closing, or;
(ii) Borrower investment of equity or other funds (including subordinated debt when subject to a standstill agreement for the life of the loan and grants) into the project in an amount of 25 percent or more of total eligible project cost;
(5) Variances in capital and equity requirements:
(i)
Increases.
The Agency may increase the capital or equity requirement specified under paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section for guaranteed loans the Agency determines carry a higher risk. In determining whether a project or guaranteed loan carries a higher risk, the Agency will consider the current status of the industry, concentration of the industry in the Agency's portfolio, collateral coverage, value of personal or corporate guarantees, cash flow, and contractual relationships with suppliers and buyers; credit rating of the borrower; and the strength of the feasibility study and experience of management. The Agency may also increase the capital or equity requirement for new businesses using integrated processing equipment and systems such as biorefineries, renewable energy systems, chemical manufacturing facilities, and businesses producing new products to sell into new and emerging markets.
(ii)
Reductions.
The Agency may reduce the minimum equity requirement for an existing business when personal or corporate guarantees are obtained in accordance with § 5001.204 of this part; and all pro forma statements indicate the business to be financed meets or exceeds the median quartile (as identified in the Risk Management Association's Annual Statement Studies or similar publication) for the current ratio, quick ratio, debt-to-worth ratio, and debt service coverage ratio.
(6) Certification: The lender must certify that, as of the date the guaranteed Loan was closed, its credit analysis indicated that the borrower had sufficient capital or equity to mitigate
the financial and operational risks of the business, and that the borrower met the minimum equity required by the Agency in its conditional commitment, or that the minimum borrower capital contribution toward project costs, as applicable and required by the Agency, was met. A copy of the borrower's loan closing balance sheet must be included with the lender's certification.
Table 1 to § 5001.105
(d)
—Capital Equity Requirements Summary
Borrower
Borrower must meet one of the following at the time of the closing of the guaranteed loan:
Percent balance sheet equity:
Borrower investment as percent of total
eligible project cost:
Balance sheet equity includes owner
contributed capital as percentage of total fixed assets:
Existing Business
≥10
≥10
≥10
Borrowers that are new businesses with sales contract(s) adequate to meet debt service and the term of the sales contract(s) are at least equal to the term of the guaranteed loan.
≥10
≥10
N/A
Borrowers that are new businesses for a project involving construction and the lender will request the loan note guarantee prior to completion of construction.
≥25
≥25
N/A
All other borrowers that are new businesses
≥20
≥25
N/A
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62197, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 70355, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79710, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.106
Eligible REAP—Renewable Energy System (RES) projects and requirements.
For a REAP RES project to be eligible for a loan guarantee under this part, it must meet the criteria specified in § 5001.102(a) through (c) and in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section and be for a borrower eligible to submit an application for the project in accordance with § 5001.126.
(a) The project must be for—
(1) The purchase of a new or existing RES;
(2) The purchase of a refurbished RES; or
(3) The retrofitting of an existing RES.
(4) For the purposes of this section, only those hydroelectric sources with a rated power of 30 megawatts or less are an eligible RES.
(b) The RES project must use commercially available technology.
(c) The RES project must be located in a rural area unless the borrower is an agricultural producer and the application supports the production, processing, vertical integration, or marketing of agricultural products. If the agricultural producer's operation is in a non-rural area, then the application can only be for RES components that are:
(1) Directly related to, and their use and purpose is limited to the agricultural production operation, such as vertically integrated operations; and
(2) Part of and co-located with the agricultural production operation.
(d) Where a residence is closely associated with an agricultural operation or rural small business to be served by the RES project, 50 percent or more of the energy to be generated by the RES project must be used by the agricultural operation or rural small business. This provision must be documented with the application and can be demonstrated using either of the methods identified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Provide a renewable energy site assessment or other documentation and calculations that demonstrate based on historical energy use that 50 percent or more of the energy to be produced by the RES project will be used in the agricultural operation or rural small business. This includes documentation on historical residential energy use. The Agency may request additional data to determine residential versus business or agricultural operation usage. The actual percentage of
energy determined to benefit the rural small business or agricultural operation will be the basis to determine eligible project costs.
(2) The borrower may install or elect to conditionalize funding upon the installation of a device (such as a second meter) that results in 100 percent of the energy generated by the RES project to be used only by the agricultural operation or rural small business.
(e) The RES project must have technical merit. The Agency will use the information provided in the technical report submitted with the application (see § 5001.307(e) of this part) to determine if the project has technical merit. In making this determination, the Agency may engage the services of other Government agencies or other recognized industry experts in the applicable technology field, at its discretion, to evaluate the technical report.
(1)
Technical report areas.
When making its technical merit determination, the Agency will evaluate the technical report using the areas specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section as applicable.
(i)
RES projects with total project costs of $80,000 or less.
For these projects, the Agency will evaluate the following areas in making the technical merit determination:
(A) Project description;
(B) Resource assessment;
(C) Project economic assessment; and
(D) Qualifications of key service providers.
(ii)
RES projects with total project costs of less than $200,000, but more than $80,000.
For these projects, the Agency will evaluate the following areas in making the technical merit determination:
(A) Project description;
(B) Resource assessment;
(C) Project economic assessment;
(D) Project construction and equipment; and
(E) Qualifications of key service providers.
(iii)
RES projects with total project costs of $200,000 and greater.
For these projects, the Agency will evaluate the following areas in making the technical merit determination:
(A) Qualifications of the project team;
(B) Agreements and permits;
(C) Resource assessment;
(D) Design and engineering;
(E) Project development;
(F) Equipment procurement and installation; and
(G) Operations and maintenance.
(2)
Pass/pass with conditions/fail assignments.
The Agency will assign each area of the technical report, as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a “pass,” “pass with conditions,” or “fail.” An area will receive a “pass” if the information provided for the area has no weaknesses and meets or exceeds any requirements specified for the area. An area will receive a “pass with conditions” if the information provided for the area has minor weaknesses which could be conditioned and reasonably resolved by the borrower. Otherwise, if the information provided for the area is conclusively deemed to be a major weakness, or if the area has not been addressed by the applicant, the area will receive a fail.
(3)
Determination.
The Agency will compile the results for each area of the technical report to determine if the project has technical merit.
(i) A project whose technical report receives a “pass” in each of the applicable areas will be considered to have “technical merit.”
(ii) A project whose technical report receives a “pass with conditions” in one or more the applicable areas will be considered to have “conditional technical merit.”
(iii) A project whose technical report receives a “fail” in any one area will be considered to be “without technical merit.”
(4)
Further processing of applications.
A project that is determined to have “technical merit” or “conditional technical merit” is eligible for further consideration for funding. Projects with “conditional technical merit” would be subject to funding conditions that would need to be met to ensure full technical merit prior to completion of the project. A project that is determined to be “without technical merit” is not eligible to compete for funding.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79711, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.107
REAP—Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) projects and requirements.
For a REAP EEI project to be eligible for a loan guarantee under this part, it must meet the criteria specified in § 5001.102(a) through (c) and also specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section and be for a borrower eligible to submit an application for the project in accordance with § 5001.126. If taxable bonds are utilized as debt instruments the provisions of § 5001.105(b)(19) must be met.
(a) The EEI project must use less energy on an annual basis than the original building and/or equipment that it will improve or replace as demonstrated in an energy assessment or energy audit as applicable.
(1) If the project's total project cost is greater than $80,000, the energy assessment must be conducted by an energy auditor, an energy assessor, or an individual supervised by either an energy assessor or energy auditor. The final energy assessment must be validated and signed by the energy assessor, the energy auditor who conducted the energy assessment, or by the supervising energy assessor or energy auditor of the individual who conducted the assessment, as applicable.
(2) If the project's total project cost is $80,000 or less, the energy assessment may be conducted in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section or by a person that has at least 3 years of experience and completed at least five energy assessments or energy audits on similar type projects. Eligible EEI include, but are not limited to:
(i) Efficiency improvements to existing RES; and
(ii) Construction of a new building only when the new building is used for the same purpose as the existing building and if, based on an energy assessment or energy audit, as applicable, it is more cost effective to construct a new building that will use less energy on annual basis than to improve the energy efficiency of the existing building.
(b) The EEI project must be for a commercially available technology.
(c) The EEI project must be located in a rural area unless the borrower is an agricultural producer and the Application supports the production, processing, vertical integration, or marketing of agricultural products. If the agricultural producer's operation is in a non-rural area, then the application can be for only EEI components that are:
(1) Directly related to and have a use and purpose limited to an agricultural production operation such as vertically integrated operations; and
(2) Part of and co-located within the agricultural production operation.
(d) The EEI project must have technical merit. The Agency will use the information provided in the technical report submitted with the application (see § 5001.307(e)) to determine whether the project has technical merit. In making this determination, the Agency may, at its discretion, engage the services of other Government agencies or other recognized industry experts in the applicable technology field to evaluate and rate the technical report.
(1)
Technical report areas.
When making its technical merit determination, the Agency will evaluate the technical report using the areas specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section as applicable.
(i)
EEI project with total project costs of $80,000 or less.
For these projects, the Agency will evaluate the following areas to determine the technical merit:
(A) Project description;
(B) Qualifications of EEI provider(s); and
(C) Energy assessment (or energy audit if applicable).
(ii)
EEI projects with total project costs of greater than $80,000.
For these projects, the Agency will evaluate the following areas to determine the technical merit:
(A) Project information;
(B) Energy assessment (or energy audit as applicable); and
(C) Qualifications of the contractor or installers.
(2)
Pass/pass with conditions/fail assignments.
The Agency will assign each area of the technical report, as specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, a “pass,” “pass with conditions,” or “fail” according to provisions of § 5001.106(e)(2).
(3)
Determination.
The Agency will compile the results for each area of the
technical report to determine if the project has technical merit in accordance with provisions of § 5001.106(e)(3).
(4)
Further processing of applications.
Projects will be further processed in accordance with provisions of § 5001.106(e)(4).
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79711, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.108
Eligible REAP—Energy Efficient Equipment and Systems (EEE) projects and requirements.
For a REAP EEE project to be eligible for a loan guarantee under this part, it must meet the criteria specified in § 5001.102(a) through (c) and in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section and be for a borrower that is an agricultural producer eligible to submit an application for the project in accordance with § 5001.126. The EEE project can be located in a rural or non-rural area as long as the energy efficient equipment or systems are used for agricultural production or processing in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. If the borrower plans to use taxable bonds as debt instruments the provision § 5001.105(b)(19) must be met.
(a) The project must be for the purchase and installation of energy efficient equipment or systems for agricultural production or processing that exceed the following standards:
(1) Energy efficiency building codes, if available;
(2) Federal or State energy efficiency standards, if available; and
(3) Other energy efficiency standards determined appropriate by the Secretary.
(i) If no codes or standards described in such subparagraph apply to the energy efficient equipment or system to be purchased or installed pursuant to such subparagraph, the Secretary shall require, to the maximum extent practicable, such equipment or systems to meet the same efficiency measurements as the most efficient available equipment or system in the market; and
(ii) The Secretary shall not provide such a loan guarantee for the purchase or installation of any energy efficient equipment or system unless more than one type of such equipment or system is available in the market.
(b) The EEE project must be for commercially available technology.
(c) The EEE project must have technical merit as certified by the vendor/installer. An application that does not include said certification will be deemed incomplete and therefore is not eligible to compete for funding.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79712, Sept. 30, 2024]
§§ 5001.109-5001.114
[Reserved]
§ 5001.115
Ineligible projects—general.
The Agency will not issue a loan guarantee under this part for any of the projects identified in this section, unless otherwise noted. The following are ineligible projects for the CF, WWD, B
I and REAP programs:
(a) Any investment or arbitrage, or any speculative real estate investment other than cooperative stock, transferable stock, cooperative equity in accordance with § 5001.140 and NMTC projects in accordance with § 5001.141.
(b) Golf courses and golf course infrastructure, including par-3 and executive golf courses; racetracks or facilities for the conduct of races by animals, professional or amateur drivers or jockeys; for-profit zoos or safaris; and publicly-owned or non-profit amusement parks, water parks, and similar recreational type facilities inherently commercial in nature and primarily used for recreational purposes.
(c) Motion pictures and theatrical productions.
(d) Funding of political or lobbying activities.
(e) Guaranteeing loans made by other Federal agencies, lines of credit, or lease payments.
(f) Projects that the Agency determines create, directly or indirectly, a conflict of interest.
(g) Properties to be used for primarily commercial rental when the borrower has no control over tenants and services offered, except for industrial-site infrastructure development.
(h) Projects that utilize technology, equipment, or systems that are not commercially available.
(i) Projects that will violate the requirements of 7 CFR part 1970, or any
statutes or Executive Orders regarding environmental requirements.
(j) Projects used primarily for the purpose of housing Federal, State, or quasi-Federal agencies, unless it is typical of the area for communities to provide this space.
(k) Community antenna television and radio services or facilities.
(l) Telephone systems. In certain circumstances, when not eligible for assistance through the Agency's telecommunications program these projects may be eligible for assistance under this part.
(m) New combined sanitary and storm water sewer facilities.
(n) Except as provided in § 5001.105(b)(8), owner-occupied housing. Owner-occupied housing, such as bed and breakfasts, and hotels and motels, are only eligible when the pro-rata value of the owner's living quarters, based on square footage, is deducted from the loan proceeds.
(o) Loans on which the interest is excludable from income under current or a successor statute of the Internal Revenue Code. Funds generated through the issuance of tax-exempt obligations cannot be used to purchase the guaranteed portion of any Agency guaranteed loan and an Agency guaranteed loan cannot serve as collateral for a tax-exempt issue.
(p) Residential EEI projects.
(q) Except as provided in § 5001.106(d), residential RES projects.
(r) Loans supporting inherently religious activities, such as worship, religious instruction, proselytization, or to pay costs associated with acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation of structures for inherently religious activities, including the financing of multi-purpose facilities where religious activities will be among the activities conducted. However, religious organizations may participate in projects eligible for funding under section 306(a)(24) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(24), provided they do not use Agency assistance for inherently religious activities in accordance with 7 CFR part 16, “Equal Opportunity for Religious Organizations.” If an organization conducts religious activities, they must be offered separately, in time, or location from programs or services supported with the guaranteed loan. Participation in the religious activities must be voluntary, and not mandatory, for the beneficiaries of the program or services. Religious organizations may not discriminate against a beneficiary or prospective beneficiary, on the basis of religion or religious beliefs. Sanctuaries, chapels, or other rooms that are used as a principal place of worship are ineligible for guaranteed financing under this part.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62197, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 70356, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79712, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.116
Ineligible CF projects.
The following are ineligible projects for the CF program only:
(a) For industrial park sites, the financing of on-site utility systems or business and industrial buildings.
(b) Inherently commercial enterprises: This type of project is typically operated by a private enterprise with an essential characteristic to produce profits. This term does not include projects operated by private enterprises on a not-for-profit basis that provide education, childcare, geriatric care, or health care to rural communities. Inherently commercial enterprises include but are not limited to: grocery stores; television and radio services or facilities; that portion of a water and/or waste disposal facility normally provided by a business or industrial user; and telecommunication facilities or services, including broadband or fiber network services that do not meet the requirements of § 5001.103(a)(6). See § 5001.103(d) for the eligibility of a commercial enterprise leasing space in an eligible project;
(c) Projects where construction is completed prior to filing an application with the Agency. This restriction applies to construction completed by or for the borrower and does not preclude the purchase or acquisition of a building constructed by an independent third party or refinancing of debt in accordance with § 5001.102(d).
(d) Projects where the borrower acts to circumvent the regulations provided in this subpart, causing the borrower
or project being eligible when, previously, the borrower or project was ineligible.
(e) Projects involving the purchase of existing facilities in which the transaction's purpose is to primarily retire the debt of the seller in order for the seller to continue to use the facility at a lower cost. Characteristics of ineligible purchase transactions may include the following:
(1) An entity, which may or may not be an eligible CF borrower, forms a new eligible entity or uses an existing eligible related entity to purchase all or part of its assets;
(2) The new entity uses CF guaranteed loan funds to purchase the assets at the agreed upon price and leases the assets back to the seller, generally at a rate which equates to the new debt payments; and
(3) The seller uses the proceeds of the sale to retire its high-cost debt and continues to use the facilities at a lower cost.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79712, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.117
Ineligible WWD projects.
The following are ineligible projects for the WWD programs only:
(a) That portion of a project normally provided by a business or industrial user, such as wastewater pretreatment.
(b) Provided the existing borrower has the capacity to provide adequate service to their service territory, guaranteed loan funds may not be used to take away customers or service areas of existing USDA WWD Program direct or guaranteed loan borrowers. The requirements and limitations of 7 U.S.C. 1926(b) only apply to this section.
(c) Projects where the borrower acts to circumvent the regulations provided in this subpart, causing the borrower or project being eligible when, previously, the borrower or project was ineligible.
(d) Projects involving the purchase of existing facilities in which the transaction's purpose is to primarily retire the debt of the seller in order for the seller to continue to use the facility at a lower cost.
§ 5001.118
Ineligible B
I projects.
The following are ineligible projects for the B
I program only:
(a) The financing of timeshares, residential trailer parks, apartments, duplexes, or other residential housing where the primary purpose is independent housing except as authorized in § 5001.105(b)(8), or housing development sites except as authorized in § 5001.105(b)(1).
(b) Projects eligible for funding under B
I that are in excess of $1 million that would either:
(1) Likely result in the transfer of jobs from one area to another and increase direct employment by more than 50 employees. However, this limitation is not to be construed to prohibit assistance for the expansion of an existing business entity through the establishment of a new branch, affiliate, or subsidiary of such entity if the establishment of such branch, affiliate, or subsidiary will not result in an increase in unemployment in the area of original location or in any other area where such entity conducts business operations. An exception is when there is reason to believe that such branch, affiliate, or subsidiary is being established with the intention of closing down the operations of the existing business entity in the area or its original location or in any other area where it conducts such operations; or
(2) Increase direct employment by more than 50 employees, which is calculated to or likely to result in an increase in the production of goods, materials, commodities, or the availability of services or facilities in the area when there is not sufficient demand for such goods, materials, commodities, services, or facilities to employ the efficient capacity of existing competitive commercial or industrial enterprises, unless such financial or other assistance will not have an adverse effect upon existing competitive enterprises in the area.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62197, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 5001.119
Ineligible REAP projects.
Owner occupied bed and breakfasts are ineligible projects in the REAP program.
§ 5001.120
[Reserved]
§ 5001.121
Eligible uses of loan funds.
Guaranteed loan funds can only be used for the items specified in this section and any other items the Agency identifies in the
Federal Register.
In addition, RD may allow a recipient of a loan guarantee under this part to use up to 10 percent of project funds to construct, improve, or acquire broadband infrastructure subject to the requirements of 7 CFR part 1980, subpart M.
(a)
CF projects.
Guaranteed loan funds for an essential CF project receiving a loan guarantee under § 5001.1 may be used to pay the expenses identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) When necessary to ensure the successful operation or protection of the project authorized in § 5001.103, subpart B:
(i) Costs for the construction or relocation of public buildings, roads, bridges, fences, utilities, or to make other public improvements; and
(ii) Costs for the relocation of private buildings, roads, bridges, fences, or utilities, and other private improvements.
(2) To pay the cost of conduit, such as pipe, tube, or tile for protecting electric wires or cables, and its installation in conjunction with financing facilities authorized in § 5001.103, when the cost of the conduit is less than 25 percent of the total project cost and the conduit is not essential to the operation of the eligible essential facility or service to be financed. The borrower must be the owner of the conduit. The conduit must be installed at the time of project construction and must be for public use. A project example is construction of a road. While work is being completed in preparation for the eligible road project, the borrower takes advantage of the construction to install underground conduit in anticipation of installing fiber optic cables in the near future.
(3) When necessary as part of a guaranteed loan to finance a project:
(i) Guarantee fees, as determined under § 5001.454;
(ii) Lender fees, as provided in § 5001.403;
(iii) Professional service fees and charges provided the Agency agrees that the amounts are reasonable and customary in the area;
(iv) Interest on guaranteed loans until the facility is self-supporting, but not for more than three years; interest on guaranteed loans secured by general obligation bonds until tax revenues are available for payment, but not for more than two years; and when the borrower obtains interim financing for the eligible project, the guaranteed loan proceeds may be used to pay off the interim financing as well as the interest on interim financing;
(v) Costs of acquiring interests in land, rights (
e.g.,
water rights, leases, and permits), rights-of-way, and other evidence of land or water control necessary for development of the project;
(vi) Costs of purchasing or renting equipment necessary to install, maintain, extend, protect, operate, or utilize facilities;
(vii) Obligations for construction worked performed prior to filing an Application with the Agency. Construction work must not be started (and obligations for such work or materials must not be incurred) before the conditional commitment is issued. If there are compelling reasons for proceeding with construction before the conditional commitment is issued, lenders may request Agency approval to pay such obligations and not jeopardize receipt of a loan guarantee from the Agency. Such request must comply with the following conditions:
(A) Provide conclusive evidence that the contract was entered into without intent to circumvent the Agency regulations, including but not limited to 7 CFR part 1970;
(B) Modify the outstanding contract to conform to the provisions of this part. When this is not possible, modifications will be made to the extent practicable and, at a minimum, the contract must comply with all State and local laws and regulations as well as statutory requirements and Executive Orders related to the Agency guarantee.
(C) When construction is complete and it is impracticable to modify the contract, the borrower and lender must provide a certification by an engineer
or architect that any construction performed complies fully with the plans and specifications; and
(D) The borrower and the contractor must have complied with all statutory and Executive Order requirements related to the Agency guarantee for construction already performed even though the requirements may not have been included in the contract documents.
(4) Refinancing in accordance with § 5001.102(d).
(b)
WWD projects.
Guaranteed loan funds for a WWD project receiving a loan guarantee may be used to pay the following:
(1) Constructing, extending, or otherwise improving an eligible facility outlined in § 5001.104(a), and may include the cost of materials and labor in addition to the following:
(i) Cost of acquiring interests in land, rights (
e.g.,
water rights, leases, permits, rights-of-way), and other evidence of land or water control or protection necessary for development of the project.
(ii) Purchasing or renting equipment necessary to construct, or extend the facility services, for owner construction.
(iii) Cost of additional borrower labor and other expenses necessary to install, extend, or protect the facility.
(iv) Interest incurred during construction in conjunction with interim financing, and the payoff of the interim loan with the permanent financing.
(v) Initial operating expenses, including interest, for a period ordinarily not exceeding one year when the borrower is unable to pay such expenses, for construction of a new facility. The lender must provide justification and the Agency must document the reason for granting the longer time.
(vi) Professional service fees and charges provided the Agency approves the amounts as reasonable and customary in the area.
(vii) Water reuse, renewable energy, and other construction projects to improve the sustainability or resilience of an eligible facility.
(2) Stand-alone projects not involving construction may also be made for the following purposes:
(i) Costs of acquiring interests in land, rights (
e.g.,
water rights, leases, permits, rights-of-way), and other evidence of land or water control or protection necessary for the maintenance or operation of the facility.
(ii) Purchase of equipment to operate, maintain, or protect facilities, such as computers, generators, vehicles, backhoes, meters, pipe, and pumps, etc. The purchase of equipment must include installation and not be for the sole purpose of increasing inventory. Owner construction or installation is an option.
(iii) The purchase or acquisition of existing facilities when it is necessary either to improve service or prevent the loss of service.
(iv) The purchase and installation of RESs for use by an eligible facility (even if it does not include construction).
(v) Planning, studies, and designs for incorporating renewable energy or water reuse, or to improve the sustainability or resilience of an eligible facility.
(vi) The Agency may allow a recipient of a loan guarantee under this part to use up to 10 percent of project funds to construct, improve, or acquire broadband infrastructure subject to the requirements of 7 CFR part 1980, subpart M.
(vii) Professional service fees for engineering and environmental services that provide services for preplanning evaluation procedures, such as leak detection, or inflow and infiltration analysis, as reasonable and customary in the area to evaluate an existing facility's need for improvements or repairs. Such services will be in accordance with professional service agreements with copies of analysis to be provided in the application package for such reports as preliminary engineering report, final design with plans and specifications, bidding documents, or the completed environmental review analysis.
(viii) Refinancing in accordance with § 5001.102(d).
(3) Other expenses related to any project under (b)(1) and (2), including:
(i) Guarantee fees, as determined under § 5001.454.
(ii) Lender fees, as provided in § 5001.403.
(iii) Payoff of interim financing including principal and interest.
(c)
B
I projects.
Guaranteed loan funds for a project receiving a loan guarantee under § 5001.1 may be used to pay the expenses identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (12) of this section.
(1) Purchase and development of land, buildings, and associated infrastructure for commercial or industrial properties, including expansion or modernization.
(2) Business acquisitions provided that jobs will be created or saved. A business acquisition is considered the acquisition of an entire business, not a partial stock acquisition in a business. However, acquisition or change of ownership between existing owners is an eligible use of loan funds when the remaining owner(s) held their ownership and actively participated in the business operation for at least the past 24 months and the selling owner will not retain any ownership interest in the business directly or indirectly including through other entities or trusts or property rights.
(3) Purchase of machinery and equipment.
(4) Startup costs, working capital, inventory, and supplies in the form of a permanent working capital term loan.
(5) Pollution control and abatement.
(6) Takeout of interim financing: Guaranteeing a loan that provides for permanent, long-term financing after project completion to pay off a lender's interim loan will not be treated as debt refinancing provided that the lender submits a complete request for preliminary eligibility review or complete application that proposes such interim financing prior to closing the interim loan. The borrower must take no action until the conclusion of the environmental review process prior to any action that would have an adverse effect on the environment or limit the choices of any reasonable alternatives to be considered by the Agency. Interim financing is typically used to pay costs associated with a planned project, such as construction or installation of equipment, however, the Agency will consider, on a case-by-case basis, other reasons to use interim financing. The term for interim financing loans should be for the construction period plus a reasonable time for the business to begin generation of working capital to amortize the loan. Guaranteed promissory notes that do not convert the interim financing payment schedule to an amortizing permanent schedule in the same note are not allowed. In certain cases, the applicant lender may use interim financing to pay-off a borrower's maturing loan with another lender if it is in the best interests of the borrower. The takeout of interim financing is only eligible when the permanent loan on which the guarantee will be placed takes out the interim financing that financed the planned project and when the lender submits a complete preliminary eligibility review or application to the Agency that proposes the interim financing prior to closing the interim loan. If the interim financing does not meet these requirements, it is considered debt refinancing and must comply with § 5001.102(d). If the guarantee is issued prior to construction, the promissory note must contain and convert the terms of the interim financing to permanent financing. The Agency will not guarantee takeout of interim financing loans that prevent a meaningful environmental assessment prior to Agency loan approval. Even for projects with interim financing, the Agency cannot approve the loan nor issue a conditional commitment until the environmental process is complete. The Agency assumes no responsibility or obligation for interim loans.
(7) Guarantee fees, as determined under § 5001.454.
(8) Lender fees, as determined under § 5001.403.
(9) Professional service fees and charges, provided the Agency approves the amounts as reasonable and customary in the area and fees for construction permits and licenses.
(10) Feasibility studies and business plans.
(11) Interest (including interest on interim financing) during the period before the first principal payment becomes due or when the facility becomes income producing, whichever is earlier.
(12) Refinancing in accordance with § 5001.102(d).
(d)
REAP projects.
Guaranteed loan funds for a project receiving a loan guarantee under REAP may be used to pay the expenses associated with the items identified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (14) of this section, provided such items are directly related to and their use and purpose are limited to the RES, EEI, or EEE project. The expenses associated with the items specified in paragraphs (d)(8) through (11) of this section cannot exceed more than ten percent of the loan amount. Ten percent is an aggregate amount, not ten percent for each item.
(1) Purchase and installation of new or refurbished RES.
(2) Purchase and installation of energy efficient equipment and systems by eligible agricultural producers.
(3) Construction, retrofitting, replacement, and improvements.
(4) Energy efficiency improvements (EEI) identified by vendor/installer certification or in the applicable energy assessment or energy audit.
(5) Fees for construction permits and licenses, including fees required by an interconnection agreement.
(6) Guarantee fees, as determined under § 5001.454.
(7) Professional service fees and charges related to the project, which may include non-deferred developer fees, provided the Agency approves the amounts as reasonable and customary in the area.
(8) Lender fees, as provided in § 5001.403.
(9) Working capital, which may include interest on interim financing, debt reserves, rent payments, insurance, and packaging and origination fees.
(10) Land acquisition.
(11) Energy assessments, energy audits, technical reports, business plans, and feasibility studies completed and acceptable to the Agency, provided no portion was financed by any other Federal or State grant or payment assistance, including, but not limited to, a REAP energy audit or renewable energy development assistance grant.
(12) For an eligible RES project in which a residence is closely associated with the rural small business or agricultural operation, the installation of a second meter to separate the residence from the portion of the project that benefits the rural small business or agricultural operation, as applicable.
(13) Land, building, and equipment for an existing RES.
(14) Refinancing outstanding long-term debt. It is not considered refinancing if loans were structured as construction or bridge loans for short-term financing needs (interim financing) in preparation for a long-term loan. Refinancing will be considered when—
(i) The original purpose of the debt being refinanced meets the eligible project requirements of § 5001.106, § 5001.107 or § 5001.108, as applicable, of this part;
(ii) Debt being refinanced does not exceed 50 percent of the total use of funds in the new REAP guaranteed loan;
(iii) Refinancing is necessary to improve cash flow and viability of the project;
(iv) At the time of application, the loan being refinanced has been current for at least the past 6 months (unless such status is achieved by the lender forgiving the borrower's debt); and
(v) The lender is providing better rates or terms for the loan being refinanced.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62197, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 70356, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79712, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.122
Ineligible uses of loan funds.
Projects that receive a loan guarantee under this part cannot use the guaranteed loan funds for those expenses or purposes identified in paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section and for any other item the Agency identifies in accordance with § 5001.10.
(a) Payment in excess of actual costs (
e.g.,
profit, overhead, indirect costs, and wages to owners) incurred by the contractor or other service provider on a contract or agreement that has been entered into at less than an arm's length transaction or has a potential for a conflict of interest. In situations where there is common ownership or an otherwise closely related company is being paid to do construction or installation work for a borrower, only
documented costs associated with the construction or installation can be paid with guaranteed loan funds and cannot include any profit or wages to such related person.
(b) Notwithstanding § 5001.102(d), payment on any other Federal loan or debt.
(c) Payment of a Federal judgment, State or Federal tax lien, or other debt owed to the United States.
(d) Loan finder or broker fees.
(e) Refinancing debt that is owned by a loan packager or broker or their respective affiliates.
(f) For loans as specified under CF and WWD, costs normally provided by a business or industrial user (
e.g.,
wastewater pretreatment).
(g) For loans as specified under CF and WWD, any portion of the cost of a project that does not serve a rural area.
(h) Rental for the use of equipment or machinery owned by the borrower.
(i) For purposes not directly related to operating and maintaining the project.
(j) Any EEI not identified in the applicable energy assessment or energy audit.
(k) Agricultural tillage equipment, used equipment, and vehicles are ineligible for loans as specified under REAP. Costs include costs for RES and/or EEI projects that are used to improve a vehicle's ability to propel itself are ineligible uses for loan funds. For example, modifying an existing vehicle's engine to run on renewable fuels or replacing an older vehicle with a new more efficient vehicle are ineligible uses of loan funds. Projects similar to purchasing and installing solar panels to power a refrigerator or the replacement of a refrigerator for a more efficient one on a food truck may be considered eligible uses of loan funds if all other borrower and project eligibility requirements are met.
(l) Distribution or payment to an individual or entity that will retain an ownership interest in the borrower or distribution or payment to a beneficiary of the borrower. Distribution or payment to a member of the immediate family of an owner, partner, or stockholder will not be permitted, except for change in ownership interest and the Agency determines the price paid to be reasonable based upon an appraisal. This prohibition does not apply to transfers of ownership for ESOPs or worker cooperatives, to cooperatives where the cooperative pays the member for product or services, or where member stock is transferred among members of the cooperative in accordance with § 5001.140 of this part. This paragraph does not preclude the former owner from remaining an employee of the business during a reasonable transition period. The payment of personal debt is considered a distribution or payment to an owner, except for the refinancing of debt for an asset that is used in the business when the owner is a co-borrower on the loan.
(m) For loans as specified under CF, initial operating expenses, short-term, working capital or operating loans; or annual recurring costs, including purchases or rentals that are generally considered to be operating and maintenance expenses.
(n) Lease payments, including lease to own or capitalized leases. This does not preclude a REAP applicant from leasing out REAP financed and installed equipment to a third party (lessee) such as a non-profit, school district, or municipal government. The third party (lessee) must directly utilize the equipment to fulfill the statutory purposes of REAP, to generate renewable energy or provide energy savings. The borrower must maintain ownership and control of the project for the entire useful life of the project, including site, income and expenses via the lease agreement. Additionally, all other REAP requirements, must be reviewed in this scenario to ensure complete eligibility is obtained with a lease in place. This includes, but is not limited to, project eligibility, including prohibitions on residential use and other prescribed eligible project costs. A REAP applicant may lease out a commercial building, improved with REAP funds, to various tenants. This may include an office complex in which a Federal Government Agency is a tenant. This is allowable as long as conflict of interest requirements are complied with.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79713, Sept. 30, 2024]
§§ 5001.123-5001.125
[Reserved]
§ 5001.126
Borrower eligibility.
To be eligible for a loan guarantee under this part, a borrower must meet the requirements specified in this section at the time of each guaranteed loan's approval and through issuance of the loan note guarantee. A borrower must meet the eligibility requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section and in paragraphs (b) through (e), as applicable, of this section.
(a)
Legal authority and responsibility.
The borrower must have, or obtain before issuance of the loan note guarantee, the legal authority necessary to construct, operate, and maintain the proposed facility and services and to obtain, give security for, and repay the proposed loan.
(1)
Operate and maintain the facility.
The borrower is responsible for operating, maintaining, and managing the facility and providing for its continued availability and use. The borrower will retain this responsibility even though the facility may be operated, maintained, or managed by a third party under contract, management agreement, or written lease. Leases may be used for certain projects when they are the only feasible way to provide the service or facility, are the customary practice to provide such service or facility within the industry or in the State and provide for the borrower's management control of the project. Contracts, management agreements, or written leases must not contain options or other provisions for transfer of ownership unless approved by the Agency. The borrower must own and retain control of the facility at all times; however, various types of ownership structures are permitted to bring in passive investor equity. These include but are not limited to partnership flips and inverted leases, which are common in the renewable energy industry. The anticipated release of passive tax credit investor entities resulting in a change in ownership control that does not impact the financial performance of the loan, as outlined at time of loan closing, does not constitute a transfer or assumption, nor require concurrence from the Agency.
(2)
Co-borrowers.
Except for CF guaranteed loans in situations where any business or affiliate is dependent upon another's operations and are effectively one business or rely upon one another for loan repayment, they must be co-borrowers, unless waived by the Agency in writing when the Agency determines that adequate justification exists to not require the entities to be co-borrowers. Both co-borrowers must meet all requirements in this part. If the operating entity is truly independent and not reliant on another operation to remain viable or repay the debt, the Agency will allow one entity to be the sole borrower.
(b)
CF loan guarantees.
To be eligible for a loan guarantee under CF, a borrower must meet the requirements identified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1)
Borrower type.
Be a public body, including Indian tribes on Federal and State reservations and other federally recognized Indian tribes, or non-profit organization.
(i) Borrowers organized under the applicable State or Tribal for-profit corporation laws may be eligible if they will be operated on a not-for-profit basis for the duration of the guaranteed loan;
(ii) Single member not-for-profit corporations or not-for-profit corporations owned or substantially controlled by other corporations or associations are eligible if the member organization has significant ties with the project service area and provides a payment guarantee.
(2)
Significant ties.
Have significant ties with the project service area (not applicable to public bodies and federally recognized Tribes) as evidenced by the following:
(i) Association with or control by a public body or bodies typically evidenced in the organizational documents of the borrower; or
(ii) Broadly based membership and controlled primarily by members residing in the project service area. Membership must be open without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, sexual orientation, or marital or familial status.
(3)
Credit elsewhere.
In accordance with 7 U.S.C. 1983, certify in writing,
subject to Agency verification, that the borrower is unable to finance the proposed project from their own resources or through commercial credit without a guarantee, at reasonable rates and terms. A loan guarantee will not be provided to borrowers who are able to obtain sufficient credit elsewhere to finance project costs at reasonable rates and terms, taking into consideration prevailing private and cooperative rates and terms in the community in or near where the borrower resides, for loans for similar purposes and periods of time, or to borrowers who are able to finance project costs from their own resources.
(4)
Evidence of significant community support.
In accordance with 7 U.S.C. 2009h, the evidence shall be in the form of a certification of support for the project from each affected local government. The certification of support should include sufficient information to determine that the essential community facility will provide needed services to the community or communities and will have no adverse impact on other community facilities providing similar services.
(c)
WWD loan guarantees.
To be eligible for a loan guarantee under WWD, a borrower must meet the requirements identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
Borrower type.
Be a public body, including Indian tribes on Federal and State reservations and other Federally recognized Indian tribes, or non-profit organization.
(2)
Credit elsewhere.
In accordance with 7 U.S.C. 1983, certify in writing, subject to Agency verification, that the borrower is unable to finance the proposed project from their own resources or through commercial credit without a guarantee, at reasonable rates and terms. A loan guarantee will not be provided to borrowers who are able to obtain sufficient credit elsewhere to finance project costs at reasonable rates and terms, taking into consideration prevailing private and cooperative rates and terms in the community in or near where the borrower resides, for loans for similar purposes and periods of time, or to borrowers who are able to finance project costs from their own resources. All lenders are required to provide written certification that their borrowers are unable to afford commercial credit at reasonable rates and terms without the guarantee.
(3)
Evidence of significant community support.
In accordance with 7 U.S.C. 2009h, the evidence shall be in the form of a certification of support for the project from each affected local government.
(d)
B
I loan guarantees.
To be eligible for a loan guarantee under B
I, a borrower must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4), as applicable, of this section.
(1) The borrower must be:
(i) A cooperative, corporation, partnership, or other legal entity organized and operated on a profit or nonprofit basis;
(ii) An Indian Tribe
(iii) A Public Body; or
(iv) An individual.
(2) The borrower must be engaged in or proposing to engage in a business. A business may include manufacturing, wholesaling, retailing, providing services, or other activities that will provide employment or improve the economic or environmental climate in rural communities.
(3) A borrower who is an individual must meet the requirements of (i) through (iii) below. Applications will neither be approved, nor a conditional commitment issued subject to meeting the citizenship requirement.
(i) Be a citizen of the United States;
(ii) Reside in the United States after being legally admitted for permanent residence and must provide a permanent green card as evidence of eligibility; or
(iii) Be a citizen or resident of the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
(4) A borrower must demonstrate, to the Agency's satisfaction, that guaranteed loan funds will remain in the United States and the project being financed will primarily create new or save existing jobs for rural U.S. residents. To ensure that loan funds remain in the United States, loans must
be collateralized with fixed assets that remain in the United States.
(e)
REAP loan guarantees.
To be eligible for a loan guarantee under REAP, a borrower must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1)
Type of borrower.
The borrower must be either an agricultural producer or a rural small business if applying for RES or EEI funding. The borrower must be an agricultural producer if applying for EEE funding. For-profit rural small businesses that provide long-term care services that benefit residents, such as nursing homes and assisted living facilities, are eligible. For-profit rural small businesses that provide short-term housing, such as hotels, are also eligible. Newly formed special purpose entities or equivalents that are clearly created solely for the circumvention of provisions prohibited by REAP statute are not eligible.
(2)
Ownership.
The borrower at the time of application or no later than guaranteed loan closing and for the term of the guaranteed loan must:
(i) Own the project; and
(ii) Own or control the site for the project at the time of application and for the term of the guaranteed loan.
(3)
End users.
If the controlling interest in the applicant entity is otherwise eligible as an applicant and a legal transaction between two parties for the sale of energy in an open market is being proposed, the Agency will not consider the energy end-users as part of the analysis of the eligibility of the applicant. However, if the proposed end-user would be an ineligible applicant, such as an entity which is residential in nature or a non-profit entity, and the REAP applicant entity is a newly formed special-purpose entity with substantially the same ownership as the proposed end-user, then the REAP applicant entity is not eligible.
(4)
Revenues and expenses.
The borrower must have available or be able to demonstrate, at the time of application, satisfactory sources of revenue in an amount sufficient to provide for the operation, management, maintenance, and any debt service of the project for the term of the loan. In addition, the borrower must control the revenues and expenses of the project, including its operation and maintenance. The borrower may employ a qualified consultant under contract to manage revenues and expenses of the project and its operation and/or maintenance.
(5)
Matching funds.
The borrower must demonstrate evidence of injection of matching funds in the project of not less than 25 percent of total eligible project costs. Passive third-party contributions are acceptable as matching funds for RES projects, including those raised from the sale of Federal tax credits.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 70356, Dec. 10, 2021; 87 FR 42297, July 15, 2022; 89 FR 79714, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.127
Borrower ineligibility conditions.
A potential borrower is ineligible for a guaranteed loan under this part as identified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section. The borrower remains ineligible until the condition causing ineligibility is resolved.
(a) An entity is ineligible if any of the conditions identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section applies to the borrower, any owner with more than 20 percent ownership interest in the borrower (does not include passive investors), or any owner with control of the borrower. Entities with delinquent debt, as identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4), under a repayment plan are not eligible until the debt is paid in full.
(1) There is an outstanding judgment obtained by the U.S. in a Federal Court (other than U.S. Tax Court).
(2) Delinquency on the payment of Federal income taxes.
(3) Delinquency on Federal debt.
(4) Debarment or suspension from receiving Federal assistance. The lender is responsible for verification of the borrower's status. Verification can be done at
sam.gov.
(b) An entity is ineligible if it derives more than 15 percent of its annual gross revenue (including any lease income from space or machines) from gambling activity, excluding State-authorized lottery proceeds or Tribal-authorized gaming proceeds, as approved
by the Agency, conducted for the purpose of raising funds for the approved project.
(c) An entity is ineligible if it derives income from activities of a prurient sexual nature.
(d) An entity is ineligible if it derives income from illegal drugs, drug paraphernalia, or any other illegal product or activity as defined under Federal statute. A borrower that intends to lease space or enter into a power purchase agreement with a marijuana dispensary is not eligible given our borrower would be receiving income from the marijuana operation which is a violation of Federal laws as marijuana is a controlled substance under Federal law and subject to Federal prosecution under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812).
(e) An entity is ineligible under B
I projects if it is a charitable or fraternal organization. For purposes of this section, an organization that derives more than 10 percent of its annual gross revenue from tax deductible charitable donations, based on historical financial statements, is considered a charitable organization. Fees for services rendered or that are otherwise ineligible for deduction under the Internal Revenue Code are not considered tax deductible charitable donations.
(f) An entity is ineligible if its lender or any of the lender's officers has an ownership interest in the borrower or is an officer or director of the borrower with management control or where the borrower or any of its officers, directors, stockholders, or other owners have more than a five percent ownership interest in the lender. Any of the lender's directors, stockholders, or other owners that are officers, directors, stockholders, or other owners of the borrower without management control or ownership less than 5 percent must be recused from any decision-making process associated with the guaranteed loan.
(g) A borrower is ineligible if it is a lending institution, investment institution, or insurance company with exception of REAP or projects for a fund that invests primarily in cooperatives in accordance with § 5001.140, and NMTC projects in accordance with § 5001.141.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79715, Sept. 30, 2024]
§§ 5001.128-5001.129
[Reserved]
§ 5001.130
Lender eligibility requirements.
To become a lender under this part, the lending entity must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, as applicable, and become an approved participant in the Agency's electronic system. Paragraph (e) of this section contains provisions associated with lenders that have already been approved by the Agency under one of the guaranteed loan programs identified in § 5001.1of this part. If not yet an Agency-approved lender, the lending entity must include with the application a request for lender approval in accordance with this section.
(a)
General.
The lending entity must:
(1) Be domiciled in a State;
(2) Not be debarred or suspended by the Federal Government or be an affiliated person of such entity that was suspended or debarred;
(3) Be free from default and delinquency on any debt owed to the Federal Government;
(4) Inform the Agency if it is under a consent order, or similar constraint, from a Federal or State agency. The Agency will evaluate the lending entity's eligibility on a case-by-case basis, and assess the risk of loss posed by the consent order or similar constraint, as applicable;
(5) Maintain written standards of conduct covering conflicts of interest; and
(6) Maintain internal audit and management control systems to evaluate and monitor the overall quality of its loan origination and servicing activities.
(7) Be registered in and maintain an account in the System for Award Management (SAM) in accordance with 2 CFR 25.200.
(b)
Regulated lending entities.
Regulated lending entities identified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (10) of this section are eligible to receive a loan
guarantee under this part without documentation to the Agency provided they are subject to supervision and credit examination by the applicable agency of the United States or a state, or were created specifically by state statute and operate under the direct supervision of a state government authority.
(1) Federal and State chartered banks.
(2) Farm Credit Bank of the Federal Land Bank and other Farm Credit System institutions with direct lending authority to make loans of the type guaranteed under this part.
(3) Bank for Cooperatives.
(4) Savings and Loan Associations.
(5) Savings banks.
(6) Mortgage companies that are part of a bank-holding company.
(7) The National Rural Utilities Cooperative Finance Corporation.
(8) Credit unions.
(9) State Bond Banks or State Bond Pools.
(10) Other lending entities not specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (9) of this section that meet the requirements as specified in this paragraph (b).
(c)
Non-regulated lending entities.
The Agency may approve a lending entity that does not meet the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section to become a lender for a period up to five years. Non-regulated lending entity eligibility will expire on January 31 of the fifth year after the date of Agency approval.
(1)
Conditions.
When the lending entity is a multi-tiered entity, the Agency will consider the lending entity in its entirety. In order to be approved as a lender, a non-regulated lending entity must:
(i) Have the legal authority to operate a lending program;
(ii) Be a financially sound institution that has a record of successfully originating at least five commercial loans annually totaling at least $1 million for each of the last three years, with the lending entity's commercial loan portfolio in last five years not exceeding:
(A) Six percent average delinquency of all commercial loans, and
(B) Three percent in commercial loan losses (based on the original principal loan amount);
(iii) Have and agree to maintain balance sheet equity in accordance with § 5001.105(d) of this part of at least 10 percent of assets and sufficient funds available to disburse the guaranteed loans it proposes to approve within the first six months of being approved as a lender;
(iv) Have and agree to maintain a line of credit issued by a regulated lending entity that is acceptable to the Agency;
(v) Agree to establish and maintain an Agency-approved loan loss reserve equal to one percent reserve of the unguaranteed portion of all guaranteed loans plus an amount equal to the identified anticipated losses.
(vi) Have written policies and procedures to ensure that internal credit controls provide adequate loan making and servicing guidance that adheres to Federal and State fair lending practices;
(vii) Document and assure to the Agency that the lending entity has the capacity to fulfill the lender functions and responsibilities identified in this part, including, but not limited to §§ 5001.201, 5001.202, 5001.207, and 5001.501.
(2)
Written request.
A non-regulated lending entity that seeks to become a lender must submit a written request to the Agency via
OneRDlenderapproval@usda.gov,
and must include the following information:
(i) The request must clearly define the multiple-entity organizational and control structure with a listing of each entity under its control, including any Community Development Entity (CDE) that may request guaranteed loans under § 5001.141. In addition, the non-regulated lending entity must include each such sub-entity in their audited financial statements, commercial loan portfolio, and commercial loan performance statistics;
(ii) Bylaws;
(iii) Audited financial statements for the most recent fiscal year that evidences the required balance sheet equity and that the lending entity has available resources to successfully meet its responsibilities;
(iv) Auditor's most recent management letter and management's response;
(v) An interim financial statement dated within 90 days of the written request, if applicable;
(vi) A copy of any license, charter, State statute, or other third-party evidence of authority to engage in the proposed guaranteed loan making and servicing activities. If licensing by the State is not required, an attorney's opinion stating that licensing is not required and that the lending entity has the legal authority to engage in the proposed guaranteed loan making and servicing activities must be submitted;
(vii) The lender's loan classification scale including their loan classification criteria;
(viii) Information on lending experience, including—
(A) Length of time in the lending business;
(B) Range and volume of lending and servicing activities for the last five years, including a list of the industries for which it has provided financing;
(C) Status of its loan portfolio, including a summary of loans in the portfolio by current loan classification code, a list of any loans restructured or charged off in the previous five years, and the calculated delinquency and loss rates as outlined in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section;
(D) Lending experience of management and loan officers, including staff organizational chart, including names and titles for senior staff;
(E) Largest sources of funds for the last five years and source of funds for the proposed guaranteed loans;
(F) Office location(s) and proposed lending area(s);
(G) An estimate of the number, size, and type of applications the lending entity will develop over the next six months; and
(H) Proposed interest rate structure and loan fees, including any loan origination, loan preparation, and servicing fees.
(ix) Description of programs, financial, and non-financial products and services.
(x) Its lending policies including underwriting standards, credit analysis policies and procedures, and its problem credit management policies and procedures.
(xi) A third-party external loan origination, lending portfolio, and management review acceptable to the Agency conducted in the previous two years, or a copy of a credit examination less than two years old conducted under an approved credit examination criterion such as CAMELS.
(3)
Approval or disapproval.
The Agency will notify the non-regulated lending entity whether its request to become a lender is approved or rejected. If the Agency rejects the request, the Agency will include in the notification the reason(s) for the rejection.
(4)
Renewals.
To maintain its status as an approved lender, the non-regulated lending entity must submit a written request to the Agency for renewal of its approved lender status at least 60, but not more than 120, calendar days prior to the expiration of the existing lender's agreement to be assured of a timely renewal. A review of the lender's performance will be completed to determine whether the lender has continually met the eligibility criteria described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. The lender's activity in the program and its delinquency/default rate will also be considered when making a determination regarding renewal. Any action by the lender since it was designated an eligible lender that could be cause for revoking its status, in accordance with § 5001.132, will be considered cause for denying the renewal of eligible status. The lender will be notified in writing whether the request is approved, reasons for denial, or any conditions the lender must meet for approval. The lender's written request must provide the information specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (iii) through (v) of this section; and
(i) A written update of any change in the persons designated to process and service Agency guaranteed loans or change in the operating methods used in the processing and servicing of loans since the original or last renewal date of lender status.
(ii) A description of how the lender is complying with each of the required criteria described in (c)(1) of this section and § 5001.501.
(iii) A new executed lender's agreement.
(iv) The Agency may require lenders with limited guaranteed loan activity over the previous five years, or a lender that has originated guaranteed loans with servicing issues or a loss to the Agency, to resubmit all the information required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section. A lender who is not active in the Agency guaranteed loan programs should provide evidence that they remain active in other commercial lending activity with acceptable underwriting and servicing performance. Lenders with loans that cause a loss to the Agency are a concern and those projects will be reviewed to determine the cause of the loss, including whether the lender's analysis or servicing processes were insufficient.
(v) The renewal will be for a term of 5 years.
(d)
Non-regulated lending entities serving tribal trust lands.
The Agency may approve a lending entity serving tribal trust lands that does not meet the criteria of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section to become a lender for a five-year period. A non-regulated lending entity approved to originate and service guaranteed loans for projects located only on tribal trust lands is restricted to such areas. To make and service guaranteed loans not on tribal trust lands, the lending entity must meet the criteria of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section. When the lending entity is a multi-tiered entity, the Agency will consider the lending entity in its entirety for approval.
(1)
Conditions.
To be approved as a lender, a non-regulated lending entity serving only tribal trust lands must—
(i) Have the legal authority necessary to operate a lending program to borrowers located on tribal trust lands.
(ii) Meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and prove to be a financially sound institution, as determined by the Agency, on a case by case basis, based on the Agency's risk assessment of the lending entity's capital, adequate liquidity, management capabilities, repayment ability, credit underwriting, balance sheet equity and other financial factors as determined appropriate. On a case-by-case basis, the Agency may reduce the loan origination requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section for lenders serving only projects located on tribal trust lands.
(2)
Written request.
A non-regulated lending entity serving Tribal trust lands that seeks to become a lender must submit a written request to the Agency via
OneRDlenderapproval@usda.gov
that includes the following information:
(i) Documentation required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section;
(ii) Written certification that the lender intends to only originate guaranteed loans under the regulation for projects located in certain (or specified) tribal lands held in trust for tribes and for tribal members not in such tribal lands but are in their service area;
(iii) Bylaws; and
(iv) Lending experience of management and loan officers, including staff organizational chart, including names and titles for senior staff.
(3)
Approval or disapproval.
The Agency will notify the non-regulated lending entity servicing tribal trust land whether its request to become a lender is approved or rejected. If the Agency rejects the request, the Agency will include in the notification the reason(s) for the rejection.
(4)
Renewals.
To maintain its status as an approved lender, the non-regulated lending entity serving Tribal trust land must submit a written request to the Agency for renewal of its approved lender status at least 60 and not more than 120 calendar days prior to the expiration of the existing lender's agreement to be assured of a timely renewal. A review of the lender's performance will be completed to determine whether the lender has continually met the eligibility criteria described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. The lender's activity in the program and its delinquency/default rate will also be considered when making a determination regarding renewal. Any action by the lender since it was designated an eligible lender that could be cause for revoking its status, in accordance with § 5001.132, will be considered cause for denying the renewal of eligible status. The lender will be notified in writing whether the request is
approved, reasons for denial, or any conditions the lender must meet for approval. The lender's written request must provide the information specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (iii) through (v) of this section; and
(i) A written update of any change in the persons designated to process and service Agency guaranteed loans or change in the operating methods used in the processing and servicing of loans since the original or last renewal date of lender status.
(ii) A description of how the lender is complying with each of the required criteria described in (c)(1) of this section and § 5001.501.
(iii) A new executed lender's agreement.
(iv) The Agency may require lender with limited guaranteed loan activity over the previous five years, or a lender that has originated guaranteed loans with servicing issues or a loss to the Agency, to submit updated information required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(v) The renewal will be for a term of 5 years.
(e) Previously approved lenders. Lenders that have been previously approved by the Agency under one of the guaranteed loan programs identified in § 5001.1(b)(1) through (4) of this part cannot originate new guaranteed loans after the effective date of this rule unless the lender is approved under the applicable conditions of paragraphs (a) through (d), as applicable, of this section.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62197, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 70356, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79715, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.131
Lender's agreement.
When approved to participate as a lender under this part, the lender must execute a lender's agreement before the Agency will issue a loan note guarantee. A new lender's agreement must be executed with any existing lender making new loans on or after October 1, 2020. Approval under one program is approval for all programs. The eligibility expiration date for non-regulated lenders will be five years from the date of the original execution of a lender's agreement as specified in § 5001.130(c) and (d). There will be only one lender's agreement issued for each lending entity based on their tax identification number. Lender's agreements will not be issued for individual branches. Subsequent loans do not require a new lender's agreement. A lender who fails to renew its lender's agreement and loses its approved lender status must continue to service any outstanding guaranteed loans in conformance with the lender's agreement last in effect and the applicable regulation under which the lender became an approved lender. Such lenders cannot submit requests for new loan guarantees.
[89 FR 79716, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.132
Maintenance of approved lender status.
Continuation of approved lender status under this part is not automatic. Lenders may lose their approved lender status as described in paragraph (a) of this section. The Agency may also revoke a lender's status as an approved lender or debar the approved lender, as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(a)
Loss of approved lender status.
A lender will lose its approved status if it—
(1) Fails to conform with the provisions of this part or the applicable guaranteed loan program identified in § 5001.1 of this part;
(2) Has no outstanding guaranteed loans with the Agency for five consecutive years;
(3) Is a regulated lending entity and fails to remain in good standing with its regulator;
(4) Is a non-regulated lending entity and fails to renew its approval status within 5 years of the expiration date of the lender's agreement.
(b)
Revocation of approved status and debarment of lender.
The Agency can revoke a lender's status as an approved lender at any time for cause as specified in the lender's agreement. A decision to revoke a lender's approved status will be made by the Agency and the lender will be notified in writing. The revocation may apply to all branches of the lender, specific branches, or personnel, as appropriate. The lender must revoke the level II eAuthentication privileges of all individuals included in
the revocation notice. Cause for revoking lender status includes, but is not necessarily limited to, the circumstances identified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (14) of this section.
(1) Guaranteed loans originated by the lender cause substantial financial loss to the Agency.
(2) Failure to maintain status as an approved lender under the applicable regulations in effect when the lender obtained approved lender status. For lenders approved under this part, this means maintaining compliance with the requirements set forth in § 5001.130.
(3) Conviction of the lender or any of its officers for criminal acts in connection with any loan transaction, whether or not the loan was guaranteed by the Agency.
(4) Violation of usury laws in connection with any loan transaction whether or not the loan was guaranteed by the Agency.
(5) Negligent loan origination.
(6) Knowingly submitting false information when requesting a loan guarantee or basing a loan guarantee request on information known to be false or which the lender should have known to be false.
(7) Failure to correct any Agency-cited deficiency in loan documents in a timely manner.
(8) Failure to provide for adequate construction planning and monitoring in connection with any guaranteed loan to ensure that the project will be completed with the available funds.
(9) Negligent loan servicing.
(10) Failure to obtain and maintain the required collateral for any guaranteed loan.
(11) Using guaranteed loan funds for purposes other than those specifically approved by the Agency in the conditional commitment or amendment thereof.
(12) Violation of any term of the lender's agreement.
(13) Failure to submit reports required by the Agency in a timely manner.
(14) Violation of applicable nondiscrimination laws, including, but not limited to, statutes, regulations, USDA Departmental Regulations, the USDA Non-Discrimination Statement, and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. USDA's Non-Discrimination Statement is located on the Agency's website, see
usda.gov/non-discrimination-statement.
In addition to revoking the lender's status, the Agency may debar the lender in compliance with 2 CFR part 180.
(c)
Servicing of outstanding loans.
Any lender who loses its status as an approved lender under any of the conditions identified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must reapply under the provisions of § 5001.130 to be reinstated as an approved lender. A lender who loses its approved lender status must continue to service any outstanding guaranteed loans in conformance with the lender's agreement last in effect and the applicable regulation under which the lender became an approved lender. In addition, such lenders cannot submit requests for new loan guarantees.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79716, Sept. 30, 2024]
§§ 5001.133-5001.139
[Reserved]
§ 5001.140
Cooperative stock/cooperative equity.
Loan guarantees described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section are only available under B
I guaranteed loans.
(a)
Cooperative stock purchase program.
The Agency may guarantee loans for the purchase of cooperative stock by individual farmers or ranchers in a farmer or rancher cooperative established for the purpose of processing an agricultural commodity. The cooperative may contract for services to process agricultural commodities or otherwise process value-added agricultural products during the five-year period beginning on the operation startup date of the cooperative in order to provide adequate time for the planning and construction of the processing facility of the cooperative.
(1) The proceeds from the stock sale may be used to recapitalize, to develop a new processing facility or product line, or to expand an existing production facility. Guaranteed loan funds must remain in the cooperative from which stock was purchased, and the cooperative must not reinvest those funds into another entity.
(2) The maximum guaranteed loan amount is $600,000 and all applications will be processed in accordance with §§ 5001.301 through 5001.303, 5001.306, 5001.315, and 5001.318 of this part, as applicable.
(3) The maximum term of the guaranteed loan is seven years when the proceeds from the stock sale are used by the cooperative to recapitalize or are used for working capital. The maximum term allowable for final guaranteed loan maturity is limited to the justified useful life of the assets the cooperative purchases with the proceeds of the stock sale not to exceed 40 years or applicable State statutory limitations, whichever is less.
(4) The lender will, at a minimum, obtain a valid lien on the stock, an assignment of any patronage refund, and the ability to transfer the stock to another party, or any other right or ability necessary to liquidate and dispose of the collateral in the event of a default by the borrower. The lender and borrower understand that the borrower is fully liable for the entire debt, regardless of the success or failure of the cooperative. The lender is expected to maximize recovery on the loan, including collection of personal, partnership and corporate guarantees. In addition, provisions of the DCIA may impose significant restrictions on delinquent Federal debtors, including eligibility for other Federal programs.
(5) The lender must complete a written credit evaluation of each stock purchase loan and a complete credit evaluation of the cooperative prior to making its first stock purchase loan.
(6) The borrower may provide financial information in the manner that is generally required by commercial agricultural lenders.
(7) A feasibility study of the cooperative is required for startup cooperatives and may be required by the Agency for existing cooperatives when the cooperative's operations will be significantly affected by the proceeds that were generated from the stock sale.
(8) The Agency will conduct an appropriate environmental review on the processing facility and will not process individual applications for the purchase of stock until the environmental review on the cooperative processing facility is completed.
(b)
Purchase of transferable stock shares.
The Agency may also guarantee loans for the purchase of transferable stock shares of any type of existing cooperative, which would primarily involve new or incoming members. Such stock may provide delivery or some form of participation rights and may only be traded among cooperative members. The lender and borrower understand that the borrower is fully liable for the entire debt, regardless of the success or failure of the ESOP. The lender is expected to maximize recovery on the loan, including collection of personal, partnership and corporate guarantees. In addition, provisions of the DCIA may impose significant restrictions on delinquent Federal debtors, including eligibility for other Federal programs.
(1) The maximum loan amount is $600,000 and all applications will be processed in accordance with §§ 5001.301 through 5001.303, 5001.306, 5001.315, and 5001.318 of this part, as applicable.
(2) The maximum term of the loan is seven years.
(3) The lender will, at a minimum, obtain a valid lien on the stock, an assignment of any patronage refund, and the ability to transfer the stock to another party, or any other right or ability necessary to liquidate and dispose of the collateral in the event of a default by the borrower.
(4) The lender must complete a written credit evaluation of each stock purchase loan and a complete credit evaluation of the cooperative prior to making its first stock purchase loan.
(c)
Cooperative equity security guarantees.
The Agency may guarantee loans for the purchase of preferred stock or similar equity issued by a cooperative or may guarantee loans to a fund that invests primarily in cooperatives. In either case, the project must significantly benefit one or more entities eligible for assistance under B
I guaranteed loans.
(1) “Similar equity” is any special class of equity stock that is available for purchase by non-members and/or members and lacks voting and other governance rights.
(2) A fund that invests “primarily” in cooperatives is determined by its percentage share of investments in and loans to cooperatives. A fund portfolio must have at least 50 percent of its loans and investments in cooperatives to be considered eligible for loan guarantees for the purchase of preferred stock or similar equity.
(3) The principal amount of the guaranteed loan cannot exceed $10 million.
(4) The maximum term of the guaranteed loan is seven years when the proceeds are used by the cooperative for working capital and;
(i) In all other cases the maximum term of the guaranteed loan is equal to the lesser of the following but not exceeding 40 years:
(ii) The justified useful life of the funded project assets,
(iii) The maximum term under any applicable State statute; or
(iv) The specified holding period for redemption as stated by the stock offering.
(5) All borrowers purchasing preferred stock or similar equity must provide documentation of the terms of the offering that includes compliance with State and Federal securities laws and financial information about the issuer of the preferred stock to both the lender and the Agency.
(6) Issuer(s) of preferred stock must be a cooperative organization and must be able to issue preferred stock to the public that, if required, complies with State and Federal securities laws.
(7) The lender will, at a minimum, obtain a valid lien on the preferred stock, an assignment of any patronage refund, and the ability to transfer the stock to another party, or otherwise liquidate and dispose of the collateral in the event of a default by a borrower. For the purpose of recovering losses from guaranteed loan defaults, lenders may take ownership of all equities purchased with such loans, including additional shares derived from reinvestment of dividends.
(8) Shares of preferred stock that are purchased with guaranteed loan funds cannot be converted to common or voting stock.
(9) In the absence of adequate provisions for investors' rights to early redemption of preferred stock or similar equity, a borrower must request from a cooperative or fund issuing such equities a contingent waiver of the holding or redemption period in advance of share purchases. This contingent waiver provides that in the event a default by a borrower on a B
I guaranteed loan, the borrower waives any ownership rights in the stock, and the lender and Agency will then have the right to redeem the stock.
(10) Guaranteed loans for the purchase of preferred stock must be prepaid in the event a cooperative that issued the stock exercises an early redemption. If the cooperative enters into bankruptcy, to the extent the cooperative can redeem the preferred stock, the Borrower is required to repay the guaranteed loan from the redemption of the stock.
(d)
Employee ownership succession.
The Agency may guarantee loans for conversions of businesses to either cooperatives or ESOP within five years from the date of initial transfer of stock.
(1) The maximum loan amount is $600,000 and all applications will be processed in accordance with §§ 5001.301 through 5001.303, 5001.306, 5001.315, and 5001.318 of this part, as applicable.
(2) The maximum term is 10 years.
(3) The lender must, at a minimum, obtain a valid lien on the stock, an assignment of any patronage refund, and the ability to transfer the stock to another party, or otherwise liquidate and dispose of the collateral in the event of a default by a borrower. The lender and borrower understand that the borrower is fully liable for the entire debt, regardless of the success or failure of the cooperative or ESOP. The lender is expected to maximize recovery on the loan, including collection of personal, partnership and corporate guarantees. In addition, provisions of the DCIA may impose significant restrictions on delinquent Federal debtors, including eligibility for other Federal programs.
(4) The lender must complete a written credit evaluation of each stock purchase loan and a complete credit evaluation of the cooperative or ESOP prior to making its first stock purchase loan.
(5) If a cooperative is organized, each selling owner becomes a member with
special control rights to protect their stake in the business while a succession plan is implemented. At the completion of the stock transfer, selling owners may retain their membership in the cooperative provided that their control rights are the same as all other members. Any special covenants that selling owners may have held must be extinguished upon completion of the transfer.
(6) If an ESOP is organized for transferring ownership to employees, selling owner(s) may not retain ownership in the business after five years from the date of the initial transfer of stock.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79716, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.141
New Markets Tax Credits Program.
The New Markets Tax Credits (NMTC) Program is administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's (Treasury) Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund with NMTC credits allocated to Treasury-certified Community Development Entities (CDE) across the United States to make Qualified Equity Investments (QEI) in low-income communities. NMTC related definitions and terms in this section are governed by section 45(D) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 45D), and applicable Treasury regulations (26 CFR 1.45D-1). A CDE will generally establish a new subsidiary of a CDE (sub-CDE) for individual NMTC projects. Lenders and their borrowers with guaranteed loan projects that include NMTC investments must comply with the provisions in this section. To be a lender for a guaranteed loan project that involves financing under the NMTC provisions, the lending entity must meet the applicable eligibility criteria in § 5001.130. The Agency will not waive its servicing rights to a guaranteed loan or be a party to any forbearance agreement in conjunction with a NMTC project. Requests for loan guarantees that include NMTC are subject to all applicable program eligibility requirements, credit analysis, and due diligence required by part 5001. In all cases the Agency will undertake efforts to protect the best financial interests of the Federal government and collection of its guaranteed loan. The Agency will not consider any tax benefit or loss of tax benefits to the CDE, sub-CDE or NMTC investor in the servicing actions of a guaranteed loan.
(a)
Guaranteed Loans Directly to Qualified Active Low-Income Community Businesses (QALICB).
(1) A lender that is CDE or sub-CDE under the direct control of a regulated lender or an approved non-regulated lender does not need to separately meet the requirements of § 5001.130 to make a guaranteed loan directly to a qualified active low-income community business (QALICB).
(2) The provisions of § 5001.127(f) notwithstanding, a lender that is a CDE or sub-CDE may have an ownership interest in the borrower provided that each condition specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section is met.
(i) The lender does not have an ownership interest in the borrower prior to the application.
(ii) The lender does not take a controlling interest in the borrower.
(iii) The lender does not provide equity or take an ownership interest in a borrower at a level that would result in the lender owning 20 percent or more interest in the borrower.
(3) Notwithstanding § 5001.115(f), a lender that is a CDE or sub-CDE taking an ownership interest in the borrower does not constitute a conflict of interest. The Agency will mitigate the potential for a conflict of interest by requiring appropriate loan covenants establishing, at a minimum, limitations on dividends and distributions of earnings in the loan agreement between the lender and borrower. The Agency will also ensure that the lender limits any waivers of loan covenants and future modifications of loan documents in compliance with this part.
(4) Guaranteed loans made by a lender directly to a QALICB must meet all other program and project eligibility requirements as specified in this part.
(5) For purposes of calculating borrower equity in compliance with § 5001.105(d)(1), the CDE (or sub-CDE's) amount of the principal balance of the loan from NMTC investor funds that is subordinated to the guaranteed loan may be considered as equity.
(b)
Guaranteed loans to a NMTC leveraged equity structure.
Tax benefits to a NMTC investor are based on the total amount of funds utilized in the project. The tax benefit calculation includes the sum of the investor's cash investment plus loan proceeds from a leveraged lender into a NMTC investor fund entity. The investor fund entity is generally a new entity established to make a qualified equity investment (QEI) into one or more CDEs or sub-CDEs to support a qualified low-income community investment (QLICI) to a QALICB. The investor fund entity, through its investment, has ownership rights in the sub-CDE that will be making secured QLICI loans to the QALICB. The provisions of § 5001.127(g) notwithstanding, either a leveraged lender entity lending to an investor fund entity, or an investor fund entity such as an investor partnership or investor limited liability corporation, may be an eligible borrower for a specific NMTC project as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. For purposes of this section only, the stated term “borrower” in paragraphs (b)(1) through (13) of this section applies to both a leveraged lender entity or an investor fund entity as the guaranteed loan borrower in the NMTC project. Paragraphs (b)(2) through (13) of this section identify modifications to this part that apply when the eligible borrower is a leveraged lender entity or investor fund entity in a NMTC project.
(1) To be an eligible borrower using the leveraged equity structure of a NMTC project each condition identified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section must be met.
(i) The investor fund entity must be established for a single specific NMTC investment.
(ii) The lender is not an affiliate of the borrower.
(iii) When the borrower is a leveraged lender entity it must relend one hundred percent of the guaranteed loan funds to an investor fund entity. In all cases one hundred percent of the guaranteed loan funds are or will be invested by the investment fund entity in one or more sub-CDEs that will then be loaned directly to a QALICB, as defined by applicable regulations of the Internal Revenue Service, through a direct tracing method, and such guaranteed loan funds are, or will be used by the QALICB in accordance with the eligibility requirements in subpart B of this part. The QALICB's project must be the ultimate use of one hundred percent of the guaranteed loan funds.
(iv) The QALICB must meet the requirements of an eligible borrower as found in § 5001.126.
(v) The sub-CDE operating agreement with the QALICB must include a provision that the guaranteed lender has approval rights with respect to any substantial loan servicing actions that may be taken by the sub-CDE regarding the collateral or repayment terms of their QLICI loans to the QALICB.
(2) The guaranteed loan amount and percentage of guarantee provisions found in §§ 5001.406 and 5001.407 of this part, respectively, apply to the QALICB and not to the investor fund entity or leveraged lender entity, who would actually be the borrower as defined under this part.
(3) For purposes of calculating borrower equity in compliance with § 5001.105(d)(1), the leveraged lender entity's note from the investor fund may be considered a tangible asset and when the lien associated with the sub-CDE's loan is subordinated, the principal balance of the sub-CDE's loan made to the QALICB from NMTC investor funds may be considered as equity.
