The following form of certification may be used: “I hereby certify that the statements contained in the submission are true and complete to the best of my knowledge. [Name and Title]”;
(4) A written, narrative description of the proposed amendments to the Bank's capital plan and a discussion of the Bank's reasons for the proposed changes;
(5) The amended capital plan as approved by the Bank's board of directors;
(6) A version of the Bank's capital plan showing all proposed changes to its previously approved capital plan;
(7) Resolutions of the Bank's board of directors:
(i) Approving the proposed capital plan amendments; and
(ii) Authorizing the filing of the application for approval of the amendments and concurring in substance with the supporting documentation provided;
(8) An opinion of counsel demonstrating that the proposed amendments comply with the Bank Act, FHFA regulations and any other applicable law or regulation. If the amendments would be identical in substance to provisions approved for other Banks' capital plans, a Bank's legal analysis may reference the other capital plans that contain the provisions in question;
(9) An analysis of the effect of the proposed amendments, if any, on the Bank's capital levels and the Bank's ability to meet its regulatory capital requirements;
(10)
Pro forma
financial statements from the end of the quarter immediately prior to the date of submission of the request for approval through at least the end of the next two years, showing the impact of the proposed changes, if any, on capital levels; and
(11) A discussion of and an explanation for changes to the Bank's strategic plan, if any, which may be related to the capital plan amendments.
(c)
FHFA consideration of the amendment.
The Director may approve any amendment to a Bank's capital plan as submitted or may condition approval on the Bank's compliance with certain stated conditions.
Pt. 1278

# PART 1278—VOLUNTARY MERGERS OF FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS
Sec.
1278.1
Definitions.
1278.2
Authority.
1278.3
Merger agreement.
1278.4
Merger application.
1278.5
Approval by Director.
1278.6
Ratification by Bank members.
1278.7
Consummation of the merger.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1432(a), 1446, 4511.

# Source:
76 FR 72833, Nov. 28, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1278.1
Definitions.
Constituent Bank
means a Bank that is proposing to merge with one or more other Banks. Each Bank entering into a merger is a Constituent Bank, regardless of whether it is also a Continuing Bank.
Continuing Bank
means a Bank that will exist as the result of a merger of two or more Constituent Banks, and when used in the singular shall include the plural.
Disclosure Statement
means a written document that contains, to the extent applicable, all of the items that a Bank would be required to include in a Form S-4 Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933 (or any successor form promulgated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission governing disclosure required for securities issued in business combination transactions) when prepared as a prospectus as directed in Part I of the form, if the Bank were required to provide such a prospectus to its shareholders in connection with a merger.
Effective Date
means the date on which the organization certificate of the Continuing Bank becomes effective as provided under § 1278.7.
Financial Statements
means statements of condition, income, capital, and cash flows, with explanatory notes, in such form as the Banks are required to include in their filings made under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Merge
or
Merger
means:
(1) A merger of one or more Banks into another Bank;
(2) A consolidation of two or more Banks resulting in a new Bank;
(3) A purchase of substantially all of the assets, and assumption of substantially all of the liabilities, of one or more Banks by another Bank or Banks; or
(4) Any other business combination of two or more Banks into one or more resulting Banks.
Record Date
means the date established by a Bank's board of directors for determining the members that are entitled to vote on the ratification of the merger agreement and the number of ballots that may be cast by each in the election.
[76 FR 72833, Nov. 28, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 2328, Jan. 11, 2013; 81 FR 76300, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1278.2
Authority.
Any two or more Banks may merge voluntarily under authority of section 26(b) of the Bank Act, provided that each of the following requirements has been satisfied:
(a) The Constituent Banks have executed a written merger agreement that satisfies all requirements of § 1278.3;
(b) The Constituent Banks have jointly filed a merger application with FHFA that satisfies all requirements of § 1278.4;
(c) The Director has approved the merger application in accordance with the requirements of § 1278.5;
(d) The members of each Constituent Bank have ratified the merger agreement as provided under § 1278.6; and
(e) The Director has determined that the Constituent Banks have satisfied all conditions imposed in connection with the approval of the merger application, and has accepted the properly executed organization certificate of the Continuing Bank, as provided under § 1278.7.
§ 1278.3
Merger agreement.
A merger of Banks under the authority of § 1278.2 shall require a written merger agreement that:
(a) Has been authorized by the affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the board of directors of each Constituent Bank at a meeting on the record and has been executed by authorized signing officers of each Constituent Bank; and
(b) Sets forth all material terms and conditions of the merger, including, without limitation, provisions addressing each of the following matters—
(1) The proposed Effective Date and the proposed acquisition date for purposes of accounting for the transaction under GAAP, if that date is to be different from the Effective Date;
(2) The proposed organization certificate and bylaws of the Continuing Bank;
(3) The proposed capital structure plan for the Continuing Bank;
(4) The proposed size and structure of the board of directors for the Continuing Bank;
(5) The formula to be used to exchange the stock of the Constituent Banks for the stock of the Continuing Bank, and a provision prohibiting the issuance of fractional shares of stock;
(6) Any conditions that must be satisfied prior to the Effective Date, which must include approval by the Director and ratification by the members of the Constituent Banks;
(7) A statement of the representations or warranties, if any, made or to be made by any Constituent Bank;
(8) A description of the legal or accounting opinions or rulings, if any, that are required to be obtained or furnished by any party in connection with the proposed merger; and
(9) A statement that the board of directors of a Constituent Bank may terminate the merger agreement before the Effective Date upon a determination that:
(i) The information disclosed to members contained material errors or omissions;
(ii) Material misrepresentations were made to members regarding the impact of the merger;
(iii) Fraudulent activities were used to obtain members' approval; or
(iv) An event occurred subsequent to the members' vote that would have a significant adverse impact on the future viability of the Continuing Bank.
§ 1278.4
Merger application.
(a)
Contents of application.
Any two or more Banks that wish to merge shall submit to FHFA a merger application that addresses all material aspects of the proposed merger. As provided in
§ 1202.8 of this chapter, a Bank may submit separately any portions of the application that it believes contain confidential or privileged trade secrets or commercial or financial information, which portions will be handled in accordance with FHFA's Freedom of Information Act regulations set forth in part 1202 of this chapter. The application shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(1) A written statement that includes—
(i) A summary of the material features of the proposed merger;
(ii) The reasons for the proposed merger;
(iii) The effect of the proposed merger on the Constituent Banks and their members;
(iv) The proposed Effective Date, the proposed acquisition date for purposes of accounting for the transaction under GAAP, if that date is to be different from the Effective Date (including the reasons for designating a different acquisition date), and the Record Date established by each Constituent Bank's board of directors;
(v) If the Constituent Banks contemplate that the proposed merger will be one of two or more related transactions, a summary of the material features of any related transactions and the bearing that the consummation of, or failure to consummate, the related transactions is expected to have upon the proposed merger;
(vi) If not addressed by the merger agreement, the Banks' proposal for the ultimate size and composition of the board of directors for the Continuing Bank and their plan for reducing the board to its ultimate size and composition, as well as the names of the persons proposed to serve as directors and senior executive officers of the Continuing Bank immediately after the merger;
(vii) A description of all proposed material operational changes including, but not limited to, reductions in the existing staffs of the Constituent Banks (to the extent such information is known), whether and how Bank operations will be combined, and whether any Constituent Bank will continue to operate as a branch of the Continuing Bank;
(viii) Information demonstrating that the Continuing Bank will comply with all applicable capital requirements after the Effective Date;
(ix) A statement explaining all officer and director indemnification provisions; and
(x) An undertaking that the Constituent Banks will continue to disclose all material information, and update all items of the application, as appropriate;
(2) A copy of the executed merger agreement and a certified copy of the resolution of the board of directors of each Constituent Bank authorizing the merger agreement;
(3) A copy of the proposed organization certificate of the Continuing Bank;
(4) A copy of the proposed bylaws of the Continuing Bank;
(5) A copy of the proposed capital structure plan of the Continuing Bank;
(6) The most recent annual audited Financial Statements, and any interim quarterly financial statements for the year-to-date, for each Constituent Bank; and
(7) Pro forma Financial Statements for the Continuing Bank as of the date of the most recent statement of condition supplied under paragraph (a)(6) of this section, and forecasted pro forma Financial Statements for each of at least two years following such date.
(b)
Additional information.
FHFA may require the Constituent Banks to submit any additional information FHFA deems necessary to evaluate the proposed merger. If FHFA has determined a merger application to be complete as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, FHFA may require the Constituent Banks to submit additional information only with respect to matters derived from or prompted by the materials already submitted, or matters of a material nature that were not reasonably apparent previously, including matters concealed by the Constituent Banks or relating to developments that arose after the determination of completeness. If the Constituent Banks fail to provide the additional information in a timely manner, the Director may deem the failure to provide the required information as grounds to deny the application.
(c)
Completion of application.
Within 30 days of the receipt of a merger application, FHFA shall determine whether the application is complete and whether FHFA has all information necessary for the Director to evaluate the proposed merger.
(1) If FHFA determines that the application is complete and that it has all information necessary to evaluate the proposed merger, it shall so inform the Constituent Banks in writing.
(2) If FHFA determines that the application is incomplete, or that it requires additional information in order to evaluate the application, it shall so inform the Constituent Banks in writing, and shall specify the number of days within which the Constituent Banks must provide any additional information or materials. Within 15 days of receipt of the additional information or materials, FHFA shall inform the Constituent Banks in writing whether the merger application is complete.
§ 1278.5
Approval by Director.
(a)
Standards.
In determining whether to approve a merger of Banks under the authority of § 1278.2, the Director shall take into consideration the financial and managerial resources of the Constituent Banks, the future prospects of the Continuing Bank, and the effect of the proposed merger on the safety and soundness of the Continuing Bank and the Bank system.
(b)
Determination by Director.
After FHFA determines that a merger application is complete, as provided in § 1278.4(c), the Director shall, within 30 days, either approve or deny the merger application. An approval of a merger application may include any conditions the Director determines to be appropriate, and shall in all cases be conditioned on each Constituent Bank demonstrating that it has obtained its members' ratification of the merger agreement in accordance with the requirements of § 1278.6 by submitting to FHFA:
(1) A certified copy of the members' resolution ratifying the merger agreement, on which the members cast their votes; and
(2) A certification of the member vote from the Bank's corporate secretary or from an independent third party.
(c)
Notice.
If the Director approves the merger application, FHFA shall provide written notice of the approval and any conditions to each Constituent Bank, as well as to each other Bank and the Office of Finance. If the Director denies the merger application, FHFA shall provide written notice of the denial to each Constituent Bank, as well as to each other Bank and the Office of Finance, and the notice to the Constituent Banks shall include a statement of the reasons for the denial.
§ 1278.6
Ratification by Bank Members.
(a)
Requirements for member vote.
No merger of Banks under the authority of § 1278.2 may be consummated unless a merger agreement meeting the requirements of § 1278.3 has been ratified by the affirmative vote of the members of each Constituent Bank in a voting process that meets the following requirements:
(1)
Notice of vote.
Each Constituent Bank shall submit the authorized merger agreement to its members for ratification by delivering to each institution that was a member as of the Record Date—
(i) A ballot that permits the member to vote for or against the ratification of the merger agreement, or to abstain from such vote; and
(ii) A Disclosure Statement that establishes a closing date for the Bank's receipt of completed ballots that is no earlier than 30 days after the date that the ballot and Disclosure Statement are delivered to its members.
(2)
Voting rights and requirements.
In the vote to ratify the merger agreement, each member of each Constituent Bank shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of Bank stock that the member was required to own as of the Record Date, provided that the number of votes that any member may cast shall not exceed the average number of shares of Bank stock required to be held by all members of that Bank, calculated on a district-wide basis, as of the Record Date. A member must cast all of its votes either for or against the ratification of the merger agreement, or may abstain
with respect to all of its votes. Each member's vote shall be made by resolution of its governing body, either authorizing the specific vote, or delegating to an individual the authority to vote.
(3)
Determination of result.
No Constituent Bank shall review any ballot until after the closing date established in the Disclosure Statement or include in the tabulation any ballot received after the closing date. A Constituent Bank shall tabulate the votes cast immediately after the closing date. The members of a Constituent Bank shall be considered to have ratified a merger agreement if a majority of votes cast in the election have been cast in favor of the ratification of the merger agreement. The Constituent Bank, or the Continuing Bank, as appropriate, shall retain all ballots received for at least two years after the date of the election, and shall not disclose how any member voted.
(4)
Notice of result.
Within 10 days of the closing date, a Constituent Bank shall deliver to its members, to each Constituent Bank with which it proposes to merge, and to FHFA a statement of—
(i) The total number of eligible votes;
(ii) The number of members voting in the election; and
(iii) The total number of votes cast both for and against ratification of the merger agreement, as well as those that were eligible to be cast by members that abstained and by members who failed to return completed ballots.
(b)
False and misleading statements.
In connection with a proposed merger, no Bank, nor any director, officer, or employee thereof, shall make any statement, written or oral, which, at the time and in the light of the circumstances under which it is made, is false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or which omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statement not false or misleading, or necessary to correct any earlier statement that has become false or misleading.
§ 1278.7
Consummation of the merger.
(a)
Post-approval submissions.
After the members of each Constituent Bank have voted to ratify the merger agreement, the Constituent Banks shall submit to FHFA:
(1) Evidence acceptable to the Director that all conditions imposed in connection with the approval of the merger application under § 1278.5 have been satisfied, including the items specified in §§ 1278.5(b)(1) and (2); and
(2) An organization certificate for the Continuing Bank, in such form as FHFA may specify, that has been executed by the individuals who will constitute the board of directors of the Continuing Bank.
(b)
Acceptance of organization certificate.
Upon determining that all conditions have been satisfied and that the organization certificate meets the requirements of § 1278.7(a)(2), the Director shall accept the organization certificate of the Continuing Bank by endorsing thereon the date of acceptance and the Effective Date, which date shall be:
(1) The proposed Effective Date set forth in the merger agreement or, if the merger agreement expresses the proposed Effective Date in terms of a range of dates, a date within the applicable range of dates; or
(2) If the proposed Effective Date set forth in the merger agreement has passed, the earlier of:
(i) The 10th business day following the date of acceptance of the organization certificate by the Director; or
(ii) The last business day preceding any date specified in the merger agreement by which the merger agreement will terminate if the merger has not become effective.
(c)
Effectiveness of merger.
After the Director has accepted the organization certificate of the Continuing Bank as provided in § 1278.7(b), and as of the commencement of the Effective Date specified on such organization certificate:
(1) The Continuing Bank shall become or remain a body corporate (depending on the type of transaction) operating under such organization certificate with all powers granted to a Bank under the Bank Act;
(2) The Continuing Bank shall succeed to all rights, titles, powers, privileges, books, records, assets, and liabilities of the Constituent Banks, as provided in the merger agreement; and
(3) The corporate existence of any Constituent Bank that is not a Continuing Bank shall cease, unless otherwise provided in the merger agreement.
(d)
Notice.
After accepting the organization certificate for the Continuing Bank, the Director shall provide to the Constituent Banks, and to each other Bank and the Office of Finance, prompt written notice of that fact, which shall include the date of acceptance and the Effective Date of the organization certificate.

# SUBCHAPTER E—HOUSING GOALS AND MISSION
Pt. 1281

# PART 1281—FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK HOUSING GOALS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1281.1
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Housing Goals
1281.10
General.
1281.11
Bank housing goals.
1281.12
General counting requirements.
1281.13
Special counting requirements.
1281.14
Determination of compliance with housing goals; notice of determination.
1281.15
Housing plans.

# Subpart C—Reporting Requirements
1281.20
Reporting requirements.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1430, 1430b, 1430c, 1431.

# Source:
75 FR 81105, Dec. 27, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1281.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
AMA mortgage
means a mortgage that was purchased by a Bank under an AMA program.
AMA program
has the meaning set forth in § 1268.1 of this chapter.
AMA user
means any participating financial institution, as defined in § 1268.1 of this chapter, from which the Bank purchased at least one AMA mortgage during the year for which the housing goals are being measured.
Balloon mortgage
means a mortgage providing for payments at regular intervals, with a final payment (balloon payment) that is at least 5 percent more than the periodic payments. The periodic payments may cover some or all of the periodic principal or interest. Typically, the periodic payments are level monthly payments that would fully amortize the mortgage over a stated term and the balloon payment is a single payment due after a specific period (but before the mortgage would fully amortize) and pays off or satisfies the outstanding balance of the mortgage.
Borrower income
means the total gross income relied on in making the credit decision.
Community-based AMA user
means any AMA user whose average total assets over the three-year period culminating in the year preceding the one being measured are no greater than the applicable community-based AMA user asset cap.
Community-based AMA user asset cap
means $1,224,000,000, subject to annual adjustments by FHFA, beginning in 2021, to reflect any percentage increase in the preceding year's Consumer Price Index (CPI) for all urban consumers, as published by the U.S. Department of Labor.
Conventional mortgage
means a mortgage other than a mortgage as to which a Bank has the benefit of any guaranty, insurance or other obligation by the United States or any of its agencies or instrumentalities.
Day
means a calendar day.
Designated disaster area
means any census tract that is located in a county designated by the federal government as adversely affected by a declared major disaster administered by FEMA, where individual assistance payments were authorized by FEMA. A census tract shall be treated as a “designated disaster area” for purposes of this part beginning on the January 1 after the FEMA designation of the county, or such earlier date as determined by FHFA, and continuing through December 31 of the third full calendar year following the FEMA designation. This time period may be adjusted for a particular disaster area by notice from FHFA to the Banks.
Dwelling unit
means a room or unified combination of rooms with plumbing and kitchen facilities intended for use, in whole or in part, as a dwelling by one or more persons, and includes a dwelling unit in a single-family property, multifamily property, or other residential or mixed-use property.
Families in low-income areas
means:
(1) Any family that resides in a census tract in which the median income does not exceed 80 percent of the area median income;
(2) Any family with an income that does not exceed area median income that resides in a minority census tract; and
(3) Any family with an income that does not exceed area median income that resides in a designated disaster area.
Family
means one or more individuals who occupy the same dwelling unit.
FEMA
means the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Low-income
means income not in excess of 80 percent of area median income.
Median income
means, with respect to an area, the unadjusted median family income for the area as determined by FHFA. FHFA will provide the Banks annually with information specifying how the median family income estimates for metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas are to be applied for purposes of determining median income.
Metropolitan area
means a metropolitan statistical area (MSA), or a portion of such an area, including Metropolitan Divisions, for which median incomes are determined by FHFA.
Minority
means any individual who is included within any one or more of the following racial and ethnic categories:
(1) American Indian or Alaskan Native—a person having origins in any of the original peoples of North and South America (including Central America), and who maintains tribal affiliation or community attachment;
(2) Asian—a person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian subcontinent, including, for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam;
(3) Black or African American—a person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa;
(4) Hispanic or Latino—a person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race; and
(5) Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander—a person having origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands.
Minority census tract
means a census tract that has a minority population of at least 30 percent and a median income of less than 100 percent of the area median income.
Moderate-income
means income not in excess of area median income.
Mortgage
means a member of such classes of liens, including subordinate liens, as are commonly given or are legally effective to secure advances on, or the unpaid purchase price of, real estate under the laws of the State in which the real estate is located, or a manufactured home that is personal property under the laws of the State in which the manufactured home is located, together with the credit instruments, if any, secured thereby, and includes interests in mortgages.
Mortgage
includes a mortgage, lien, including a subordinate lien, or other security interest on the stock or membership certificate issued to a tenant-stockholder or resident-member by a cooperative housing corporation, as defined in section 216 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and on the proprietary lease, occupancy agreement, or right of tenancy in the dwelling unit of the tenant-stockholder or resident-member in such cooperative housing corporation.
Mortgage purchase
means a transaction in which a Bank bought or otherwise acquired a mortgage.
Non-metropolitan area
means a county, or a portion of a county, including those counties that comprise Micropolitan Statistical Areas, located outside any metropolitan area, for which median incomes are determined by FHFA.
Purchase money mortgage
means a mortgage given to secure a loan used for the purchase of a single-family residential property.
Refinancing mortgage
means a mortgage undertaken by a borrower that satisfies or replaces an existing mortgage of such borrower. The term does not include:
(1) A renewal of a single payment obligation with no change in the original terms;
(2) A reduction in the annual percentage rate of the mortgage as computed under the Truth in Lending Act, with a corresponding change in the payment schedule;
(3) An agreement involving a court proceeding;
(4) A workout agreement, in which a change in the payment schedule or collateral requirements is agreed to as a result of the mortgagor's default or delinquency, unless the rate is increased or the new amount financed exceeds the unpaid balance plus earned finance charges and premiums for the continuation of insurance;
(5) The renewal of optional insurance purchased by the mortgagor and added to an existing mortgage; or
(6) A conversion of a balloon mortgage note on a single-family property to a fully amortizing mortgage note where the Bank already owns or has an interest in the balloon note at the time of the conversion.
Residence
means a property where one or more families reside.
Seasoned mortgage
means a mortgage on which the date of the mortgage note is more than one year before the Bank purchased the mortgage.
Secondary residence
means a dwelling where the mortgagor maintains (or will maintain) a part-time place of abode and typically spends (or will spend) less than the majority of the calendar year. A person may have more than one secondary residence at a time.
Single-family housing
means a residence consisting of one to four dwelling units. Single-family housing includes condominium dwelling units and dwelling units in cooperative housing projects.
Very low-income
means income not in excess of 50 percent of area median income.
[75 FR 81105, Dec. 27, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 2328, Jan. 11, 2013; 81 FR 76300, Nov. 2, 2016; 81 FR 91690, Dec. 19, 2016; 85 FR 38050, June 25, 2020]

# Subpart B—Housing Goals
§ 1281.10
General.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Bank Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1430c), this subpart establishes:
(a) A prospective mortgage purchase housing goal;
(b) A small member participation housing goal;
(c) Requirements for measuring performance under the housing goals; and
(d) Procedures for monitoring and enforcing the housing goals.
[75 FR 81105, Dec. 27, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 38051, June 25, 2020]
§ 1281.11
Bank housing goals.
(a)
Prospective mortgage purchase housing goal
—(1)
Target levels.
For each calendar year, the percentage of a Bank's AMA mortgages acquired during the calendar year that are for very low-income families, low-income families, or families in low-income areas must meet or exceed either:
(i) A target level of 20 percent; or
(ii) An alternative target level proposed by the Bank and approved by FHFA under paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Cap on low-income areas loans counted toward goal.
No more than 25 percent of the mortgages that are counted toward a Bank's achievement of the prospective mortgage purchase housing goal may be mortgages for families with incomes above 80 percent of area median income. Any purchases of mortgages for families with incomes above 80 percent of area median income in excess of the 25 percent cap shall be treated as mortgage purchases for purposes of the housing goals and shall be included in the denominator for the housing goal, but such mortgages shall not be included in the numerator in calculating a Bank's performance under the housing goal.
(b)
Small member participation housing goal.
For each calendar year, the percentage of a Bank's total AMA users that are community-based AMA users must meet or exceed one of the following:
(1) A target level of 50 percent;
(2) A percentage that is three percentage points greater than the percentage from the preceding calendar year; or
(3) An alternative target level proposed by the Bank and approved by FHFA under paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Alternative target levels
—(1)
Submission of Bank requests.
A Bank, upon approval of its board of directors, may submit a written request to FHFA for approval of different target levels for the prospective mortgage purchase
housing goal, the small member participation housing goal, or both. A Bank's request under this paragraph must include proposed target levels for three consecutive years following the calendar year in which the request is submitted. A Bank is not required to propose the same target level for each of the three years.
(2)
Content of Bank request.
A Bank's request under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for an alternative target level must include a detailed explanation of:
(i) Why the target level for the goal in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, as applicable, is infeasible;
(ii) Why the Bank's proposed alternative target level is achievable; and
(iii) How the Bank's proposed alternative target level will meaningfully further affordable housing mortgage lending in its district.
(3)
Frequency of Bank requests
—(i)
Three-year period.
A Bank may not submit a request under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for an alternative target level more frequently than once every three years, except as provided in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) or (c)(3)(iii) of this section. The deadline for submitting a request under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is September 15 of the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which the alternative target level would apply. FHFA will review each Bank request that is received by the deadline and will notify the Bank in writing if its request is approved. If FHFA does not notify a Bank that its request is approved, the Bank will remain subject to the target levels in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, as applicable.
(ii)
Exception for changes in AMA products or programs.
FHFA may require a Bank to submit a request under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for an alternative target level to address discontinuation of an AMA product or program or approval of a new AMA product or program.
(iii)
Exception for special circumstances.
A Bank may submit a request under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for an alternative target level more frequently than once every three years if warranted given economic, operational, or other circumstances.
(4)
Public comment.
FHFA will publish each request that is submitted under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for an alternative target level on FHFA's public website for a period of at least 30 days, to provide the public an opportunity to comment on the request. FHFA will publish each request without redactions or other changes, except that FHFA will not publish any confidential or proprietary material. A Bank must submit any material supporting its request under paragraph (c)(1) of this section that it considers to be confidential or proprietary as a separate document, clearly designated as confidential or proprietary.
[85 FR 38051, June 25, 2020]
§ 1281.12
General counting requirements.
(a)
General.
Mortgage purchases financing single-family properties shall be evaluated based on the income of the mortgagors and the area median income at the time the mortgage was originated. To determine whether mortgages may be counted under a particular family income level (
e.g.,
low- or very low-income), the income of the mortgagor is compared to the median income for the area at the time the mortgage was originated, using the appropriate percentage factor provided under § 1281.1.
(b)
No double-counting.
A mortgage may be counted only once toward the achievement of the prospective mortgage purchase housing goal, even if it satisfies multiple criteria for the prospective mortgage purchase housing goal.
(c)
Application of median income.
For purposes of determining an area's median income under § 1281.1, the area is:
(1) The metropolitan area, if the residence that secures the mortgage is in a metropolitan area; and
(2) In all other areas, the county in which the property is located, except that where the State non-metropolitan median income is higher than the county's median income, the area is the State non-metropolitan area.
(d)
Sampling not permitted.
Performance under the housing goals for each year shall be based on a tabulation of
each mortgage during that year; a sampling of such purchases is not acceptable.
[85 FR 38051, June 25, 2020]
§ 1281.13
Special counting requirements.
(a)
General.
FHFA shall determine whether a Bank shall receive full, partial, or no credit toward achievement of any of the housing goals for a transaction that otherwise qualifies under this part.
(b)
Not counted.
The following transactions or activities shall not be counted for purposes of the housing goals, meaning that in calculating the applicable percentage target level, they shall be excluded from both the numerator (
i.e.,
AMA mortgages acquired during the calendar year that are for very low-income families, low-income families, or families in low-income areas) and the denominator (
i.e.,
total AMA mortgages acquired during the calendar year), even if the transaction or activity would otherwise be counted under paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) Purchases of participation interests in AMA mortgages from another Bank, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section;
(2) Commitments to buy mortgages at a later date or time;
(3) Options to acquire mortgages;
(4) Rights of first refusal to acquire mortgages;
(5) Any interests in mortgages that the Director determines, in writing, shall not be treated as interests in mortgages;
(6) Mortgage purchases to the extent they finance any dwelling units that are secondary residences;
(7) Single-family refinancing mortgages that result from conversion of balloon notes to fully amortizing notes, if a Bank already owns, or has an interest in, the balloon note at the time conversion occurs;
(8) Purchases of subordinate lien mortgages;
(9) Purchases of mortgages that were previously counted by a Bank under any current or previous housing goal within the five years immediately preceding the current performance year;
(10) Purchases of mortgages where the property has not been approved for occupancy; and
(11) Any combination of factors in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(10) of this section.
(c)
Other special rules.
Subject to FHFA's determination of whether a Bank shall receive full, partial, or no credit for a transaction toward achievement of any of the housing goals as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the transactions and activities identified in this paragraph (c) shall be treated as mortgage purchases as described. A transaction or activity that is covered by more than one paragraph below must satisfy the requirements of each such paragraph. The mortgages from each such transaction or activity shall be included in the denominator in calculating a Bank's performance under the housing goals, and shall be included in the numerator, as appropriate.
(1)
Cooperative housing and condominiums.
The purchase by a Bank of a mortgage on a cooperative housing unit (“a share loan”) or a mortgage on a condominium unit shall be treated as a mortgage purchase for purposes of the housing goals.
(2)
Seasoned mortgages.
The purchase of a seasoned mortgage by a Bank shall be treated as a mortgage purchase for purposes of the housing goals, except where the Bank has already counted the mortgage under any current or previous housing goal within the five years immediately preceding the current performance year.
(3)
Purchase of refinancing mortgages.
The purchase of a refinancing mortgage by a Bank shall be treated as a mortgage purchase for purposes of the housing goals only if the refinancing is an arms-length transaction that is borrower-driven.
(4)
Non-conventional mortgages.
The purchase of a non-conventional single-family mortgage shall be treated as a mortgage purchase for purposes of the housing goals only if the mortgage was acquired from a community-based AMA user.
(d)
FHFA review of transactions.
FHFA may determine whether and how any transaction or class of transactions shall be counted for purposes of the
housing goals. FHFA will notify each Bank in writing of any determination regarding the treatment of any transaction or class of transactions under the housing goals.
(e)
Mortgage participation transactions.
Where two or more Banks acquire a participation interest in the same mortgage simultaneously, the mortgage will be counted on a
pro rata
basis for the prospective mortgage purchase housing goal for each Bank with a participation interest.
[75 FR 81105, Dec. 27, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 38052, June 25, 2020]
§ 1281.14
Determination of compliance with housing goals; notice of determination.
(a)
Determination of compliance with housing goals.
On an annual basis, FHFA will determine each Bank's performance under each housing goal and will publish the final determinations. FHFA will publish its final determination including the numbers and percentages for each Bank's AMA purchases that meet each of the housing goals criteria, including loans to low-income families, loans to very low-income families, and loans to families in low-income areas, including by each of the defined categories. FHFA's determination will include these numbers in total and separated into purchase money mortgages, refinancing mortgages, conventional mortgages, and non-conventional mortgages.
(b)
Failure to meet a housing goal.
If the Director determines that a Bank has failed to meet any housing goal, the Director shall notify the Bank in writing of such preliminary determination. Any notification to a Bank of a preliminary determination under this section shall provide the Bank with an opportunity to respond in writing in accordance with the following procedures:
(1)
Notice.
The Director shall provide written notice to a Bank of a preliminary determination under this section, the reasons for such determination, and the information on which the Director based the determination.
(2)
Response period
—(i)
In general.
During the 30-day period beginning on the date on which notice is provided under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Bank may submit to the Director any written information that the Bank considers appropriate for consideration by the Director in finally determining whether such failure has occurred or whether the achievement of such goal was feasible.
(ii)
Extended period.
The Director may extend the period under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section for good cause for not more than 30 additional days.
(iii)
Shortened period.
The Director may shorten the period under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section for good cause.
(iv)
Failure to respond.
The failure of a Bank to provide information during the 30-day period under this paragraph (b)(2), as extended or shortened, shall waive any right of the Bank to comment on the proposed determination or action of the Director.
(3)
Consideration of information and final determination—
(i)
In general.
After the expiration of the response period under paragraph (b)(2) of this section or receipt of information provided during such period by a Bank, the Director shall issue a final determination on:
(A) Whether the Bank has failed to meet the housing goal; and
(B) Whether, taking into consideration market and economic conditions and the financial condition of the Bank, the achievement of the housing goal was feasible.
(ii)
Considerations.
In making a final determination under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the Director shall take into consideration any relevant information submitted by a Bank during the response period.
[75 FR 81105, Dec. 27, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 38052, June 25, 2020]
§ 1281.15
Housing plans.
(a)
Housing plan requirement.
For any year after 2023, if the Director determines that a Bank has failed to meet any housing goal and that the achievement of the housing goal was feasible, the Director may require the Bank to submit a housing plan for approval by the Director.
(b)
Nature of plan.
If the Director requires a housing plan, the housing plan shall:
(1) Be feasible;
(2) Be sufficiently specific to enable the Director to monitor compliance periodically;
(3) Describe the specific actions that the Bank will take to achieve the housing goal for the next calendar year;
(4) Address any additional matters relevant to the housing plan as required, in writing, by the Director; and
(5) Address any alternative target levels for which the Bank has submitted a request under § 1281.11(c)(1).
(c)
Deadline for submission.
The Bank shall submit the housing plan to the Director within 45 days after issuance of a notice requiring the Bank to submit a housing plan. The Director may extend the deadline for submission of a plan, in writing and for a time certain, to the extent the Director determines an extension is necessary.
(d)
Review of housing plan.
The Director shall review and approve or disapprove a housing plan as follows:
(1)
Approval.
The Director shall review each submission by a Bank, including a housing plan submitted under this section and, not later than 30 days after submission, approve or disapprove the plan or other action. The Director may extend the period for approval or disapproval for a single additional 30-day period if the Director determines it necessary. The Director shall approve any plan that the Director determines is likely to succeed, and conforms with the Bank Act, this part, and any other applicable provision of law.
(2)
Notice of approval and disapproval.
The Director shall provide written notice to a Bank submitting a housing plan of the approval or disapproval of the plan, which shall include the reasons for any disapproval of the plan, and of any extension of the period for approval or disapproval.
(e)
Resubmission.
If the Director disapproves an initial housing plan submitted by a Bank, the Bank shall submit an amended plan acceptable to the Director not later than 15 days after the Director's disapproval of the initial plan; the Director may extend the deadline if the Director determines an extension is in the public interest. If the amended plan is not acceptable to the Director, the Director may afford the Bank 15 days to submit a new plan.
(f)
Enforcement of housing plan.
If the Director finds that a Bank has failed to meet any housing goal, and that the achievement of the housing goal was feasible, and has required the Bank to submit a housing plan under this section, the Director may issue a cease and desist order, or impose civil money penalties, if the Bank refuses to submit such a plan, fails to submit an acceptable plan, or fails to comply with the approved plan. In taking such action, the Director shall follow procedures consistent with those provided in 12 U.S.C. 4581 through 4588 with respect to actions to enforce the housing goals.
[75 FR 81105, Dec. 27, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 38052, June 25, 2020]

# Subpart C—Reporting Requirements

# Source:
85 FR 38052, June 25, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1281.20
Reporting requirements.
(a)
General.
Each Bank must collect and submit to FHFA any data that FHFA determines to be necessary for FHFA to evaluate transactions and activities under the Bank housing goals.
(b)
Reporting for prospective mortgage purchase housing goal.
Each Bank must collect data on each AMA mortgage purchased by the Bank. The data must include any data elements specified by FHFA. On no less frequent than an annual basis, each Bank must submit such data to FHFA in accordance with the Data Reporting Manual.
(c)
Reporting for small member participation housing goal.
Each Bank must collect data on AMA user asset size. On no less frequent than an annual basis, each Bank must submit such data to FHFA in accordance with the Data Reporting Manual.
(d)
Other reporting.
Each Bank must provide to FHFA such additional reports, information, and data as FHFA may request from time to time.
Pt. 1282

# PART 1282—ENTERPRISE HOUSING GOALS AND MISSION

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1282.1
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Housing Goals
1282.11
General.
1282.12
Single-family housing goals.
1282.13
Multifamily special affordable housing goal and subgoals.
1282.14
Discretionary adjustment of housing goals.
1282.15
General counting requirements.
1282.16
Special counting requirements.
1282.17
Affordability—Income level definitions—family size and income known (owner-occupied units, actual tenants, and prospective tenants).
1282.18
Affordability—Income level definitions—family size not known (actual or prospective tenants).
1282.19
Affordability—Rent level definitions—tenant income is not known.
1282.20
Determination of compliance with housing goals; notice of determination.
1282.21
Housing plans.
1282.22
Housing plans.

# Subpart C—Duty to Serve Underserved Markets
1282.31
General.
1282.32
Underserved Markets Plan.
1282.33
Manufactured housing market.
1282.34
Affordable housing preservation market.
1282.35
Rural markets.
1282.36
Evaluations, ratings, and Evaluation Guidance.
1282.37
General requirements for credit.
1282.38
General requirements for loan purchases.
1282.39
Special requirements for loan purchases.
1282.40
Failure to comply.
1282.41
Housing plans.

# Subpart D—Reporting Requirements
1282.61
General.
1282.62
Mortgage reports.
1282.63
Annual Housing Activities Report.
1282.64
Periodic reports.
1282.65
Enterprise data integrity.
1282.66
Enterprise reports on duty to serve.f

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 4501, 4502, 4511, 4513, 4526, 4561-4566.

# Source:
75 FR 55930, Sept. 14, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1282.1
Definitions.
(a)
Statutory terms.
All terms defined in the Safety and Soundness Act are used in accordance with their statutory meaning unless otherwise defined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Other terms.
As used in this part, the term:
Additional Activity,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means an activity in an Enterprise's Underserved Markets Plan that is not a Statutory Activity or Regulatory Activity.
Agricultural worker,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means any person that meets the definition of an agricultural worker under a federal, state, tribal or local program.
AHAR
means the Annual Housing Activities Report that an Enterprise submits to the Director under section 309(n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act or section 307(f) of the Freddie Mac Act.
AHAR information
means data or information contained in the AHAR.
Area of concentrated poverty,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a census tract designated by HUD as a Qualified Census Tract, pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 42(d)(5)(B)(ii), or as a Racially- or Ethnically-Concentrated Area of Poverty, pursuant to 24 CFR 5.152, during any year covered by an Underserved Markets Plan or in the year prior to a Plan's effective date.
Balloon mortgage
means a mortgage providing for payments at regular intervals, with a final payment (“balloon payment”) that is at least 5 percent more than the periodic payments. The periodic payments may cover some or all of the periodic principal or interest. Typically, the periodic payments are level monthly payments that would fully amortize the mortgage over a stated term and the balloon payment is a single payment due after a specified period (but before the mortgage would fully amortize) and pays off or satisfies the outstanding balance of the mortgage.
Borrower income
means the total gross income relied on in making the credit decision.
Charter Act
means the Fannie Mae Charter Act, as amended, or the Freddie Mac Act, as amended.
Colonia,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means an identifiable community that meets the definition of a colonia under a federal, State, tribal, or local program.
Colonia census tract,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a census tract that contains a colonia.
Community development financial institution,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, has the meaning in 12 CFR 1263.1.
Conventional mortgage
means a mortgage other than a mortgage as to which an Enterprise has the benefit of any guaranty, insurance or other obligation by the United States or any of its agencies or instrumentalities.
Day
means a calendar day.
Designated disaster area
means any census tract that is located in a county designated by the Federal Government as adversely affected by a declared major disaster administered by FEMA, where housing assistance payments were authorized by FEMA. A census tract shall be treated as a “designated disaster area” for purposes of this part beginning on the January 1 after the FEMA designation of the county, or such earlier date as determined by FHFA, and continuing through December 31 of the third full calendar year following the FEMA designation. This time period may be adjusted for a particular disaster area by notice from FHFA to the Enterprises.
Dwelling unit
means a room or unified combination of rooms with plumbing and kitchen facilities intended for use, in whole or in part, as a dwelling by one or more persons, and includes a dwelling unit in a single-family property, multifamily property, or other residential or mixed-use property.
Efficiency
means a dwelling unit having no separate bedrooms or 0 bedrooms.
Evaluation Guidance,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means separate FHFA-prepared guidance that includes the information required under this subpart, as well as additional guidance on the Underserved Markets Plans, how the quantitative and qualitative assessments will be conducted, the role of extra credit for extra-credit eligible activities such as residential economic diversity, how final ratings will be determined, and other matters as may be appropriate.
Extremely low-income
means:
(i) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 30 percent of area median income; and
(ii) In the case of rental units, income not in excess of 30 percent of area median income, with adjustments for smaller and larger families in accordance with this part.
Families in low-income areas
means:
(i) Any family that resides in a census tract in which the median income does not exceed 80 percent of the area median income;
(ii) Any family with an income that does not exceed area median income that resides in a minority census tract; and
(iii) Any family with an income that does not exceed area median income that resides in a designated disaster area.
Family
means one or more individuals who occupy the same dwelling unit.
Fannie Mae Charter Act
means the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1715
et seq.
).
Federally insured credit union,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, has the meaning in 12 U.S.C. 1752(7).
Federally recognized Indian tribe,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, has the meaning in 25 CFR 83.1.
FEMA
means the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
FOIA
means the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552).
Freddie Mac Act
means the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.
).
High-needs rural population,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means any of the following populations provided the population is located in a rural area:
(i) Members of a Federally recognized Indian tribe located in an Indian area; or
(ii) Agricultural workers.
High-needs rural region,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means any of the following regions provided the region is located in a rural area:
(i) Middle Appalachia;
(ii) The Lower Mississippi Delta;
(iii) A colonia census tract; or
(iv) A tract located in a persistent poverty county and not included in Middle Appalachia, the Lower Mississippi Delta, or a colonia.
High opportunity area,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means:
(i) An area designated by HUD as a “Difficult Development Area,” pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 42(d)(5)(B)(iii), during
any year covered by an Underserved Markets Plan or in the year prior to an Underserved Markets Plan's effective date, whose poverty rate is lower than the rate specified by FHFA in the Evaluation Guidance; or
(ii) An area designated by a state or local Qualified Allocation Plan as a high opportunity area and which meets a definition FHFA has identified as eligible for duty to serve credit in the Evaluation Guidance.
HOEPA mortgage
means a mortgage covered by section 103(bb) of the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act (HOEPA) (15 U.S.C. 1602(bb)), as implemented by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.
Indian area,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, has the meaning in 24 CFR 1000.10.
Insured depository institution,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means an institution whose deposits are insured under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
).
Lender
means any entity that makes, originates, sells, or services mortgages, and includes the secured creditors named in the debt obligation and document creating the mortgage.
Low-income
means:
(i) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 80 percent of area median income; and
(ii) In the case of rental units, income not in excess of 80 percent of area median income, with adjustments for smaller and larger families in accordance with this part.
Lower Mississippi Delta,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means the Lower Mississippi Delta counties designated by Public Laws 100-460, 106-554, and 107-171, along with any future updates made by Congress.
Manufactured home,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a manufactured home as defined in section 603(6) of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 5401
et seq.,
and implementing regulations.
Manufactured housing community,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a tract of land under unified ownership and developed for the purposes of providing individual rental spaces for the placement of manufactured homes for residential purposes within its boundaries.
Median income
means, with respect to an area, the unadjusted median family income for the area as determined by FHFA. FHFA will provide the Enterprises annually with information specifying how the median family income estimates for metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas are to be applied for purposes of determining median income.
Metropolitan area
means a metropolitan statistical area (MSA), or a portion of such an area, including Metropolitan Divisions, for which median incomes are determined by FHFA.
Middle Appalachia,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means the “central” Appalachian subregion under the Appalachian Regional Commission's subregional classification of Appalachia.
Minority
means any individual who is included within any one or more of the following racial and ethnic categories:
(i) American Indian or Alaskan Native—a person having origins in any of the original peoples of North and South America (including Central America), and who maintains Tribal affiliation or community attachment;
(ii) Asian—a person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian subcontinent, including, for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam;
(iii) Black or African American—a person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa;
(iv) Hispanic or Latino—a person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race; and
(v) Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander—a person having origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands.
Minority census tract
means a census tract that has a minority population of at least 30 percent and a median income of less than 100 percent of the area median income.
Mixed-income housing,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a multifamily property or development that may include or comprise single-family units that serves very low-, low-, or moderate-income families where:
(i) A minimum percentage of the units are unaffordable to low-income families, or to families at higher income levels, as specified in the Evaluation Guide; and
(ii) A minimum percentage of the units are affordable to low-income families, or to families at lower income levels, as specified in the Evaluation Guide.
Moderate-income
means:
(i) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of area median income; and
(ii) In the case of rental units, income not in excess of area median income, with adjustments for smaller and larger families in accordance with this part.
Mortgage
means a member of such classes of liens, including subordinate liens, as are commonly given or are legally effective to secure advances on, or the unpaid purchase price of, real estate under the laws of the State in which the real estate is located, together with the credit instruments, if any, secured thereby, and includes interests in mortgages. “Mortgage” includes a mortgage, lien, including a subordinate lien, or other security interest on the stock or membership certificate issued to a tenant-stockholder or resident-member by a cooperative housing corporation, as defined in section 216 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and on the proprietary lease, occupancy agreement, or right of tenancy in the dwelling unit of the tenant-stockholder or resident-member in such cooperative housing corporation.
Mortgage data
means data obtained by the Director from the Enterprises under section 309(m) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act and section 307(e) of the Freddie Mac Act.
Mortgage purchase
means a transaction in which an Enterprise bought or otherwise acquired a mortgage or an interest in a mortgage for portfolio, resale, or securitization.
Mortgage revenue bond
means a tax-exempt bond or taxable bond issued by a State or local government or agency where the proceeds from the bond issue are used to finance residential housing.
Multifamily housing
means a residence consisting of more than four dwelling units. The term includes cooperative buildings and condominium projects.
Non-metropolitan area
means a county, or a portion of a county, including those counties that comprise Micropolitan Statistical Areas, located outside any metropolitan area, for which median incomes are determined by FHFA.
Owner-occupied housing
means single-family housing in which a mortgagor resides, including two- to four-unit owner-occupied properties where one or more units are used for rental purposes.
Participation
means a fractional interest in the principal amount of a mortgage.
Persistent poverty county,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a county in a rural area that has had 20 percent or more of its population living in poverty over the past 30 years, as measured by the most recent successive decennial censuses.
Private label security
means any mortgage-backed security that is neither issued nor guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae, or any other government agency.
Proprietary information
means all mortgage data and all AHAR information that the Enterprises submit to the Director in the AHARs that contain trade secrets or privileged or confidential, commercial, or financial information that, if released, would be likely to cause substantial competitive harm.
Public data
means all mortgage data and all AHAR information that the Enterprises submit to the Director in the AHARs that the Director determines are not proprietary and may appropriately be disclosed consistent with other applicable laws and regulations.
Purchase money mortgage
means a mortgage given to secure a loan used for the purchase of a single-family residential property.
Refinancing mortgage
means a mortgage undertaken by a borrower that satisfies or replaces an existing mortgage of such borrower. The term does not include:
(i) A renewal of a single payment obligation with no change in the original terms;
(ii) A reduction in the annual percentage rate of the mortgage as computed under the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
), with a corresponding change in the payment schedule;
(iii) An agreement involving a court proceeding;
(iv) A workout agreement, in which a change in the payment schedule or collateral requirements is agreed to as a result of the mortgagor's default or delinquency, unless the rate is increased or the new amount financed exceeds the unpaid balance plus earned finance charges and premiums for the continuation of insurance;
(v) The renewal of optional insurance purchased by the mortgagor and added to an existing mortgage;
(vi) A renegotiated balloon mortgage on a multifamily property where the balloon payment was due within 1 year after the date of the closing of the renegotiated mortgage; and
(vii) A conversion of a balloon mortgage note on a single-family property to a fully amortizing mortgage note where the Enterprise already owns or has an interest in the balloon note at the time of the conversion.
Regulatory Activity,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means an activity in an Enterprise's Underserved Markets Plan that is designated as a Regulatory Activity in §§ 1282.33(c), 1282.34(d), or 1282.35(c).
Rent
means the actual rent or average rent by unit size for a dwelling unit.
(i) Rent is determined based on the total combined rent for all bedrooms in the dwelling unit, including fees or charges for management and maintenance services and any utility charges that are included.
(A) Rent concessions shall not be considered,
i.e.,
the rent is not decreased by any rent concessions.
(B) Rent is net of rental subsidies,
i.e.,
the rent is decreased by any rental subsidy.
(ii) When the rent does not include all utilities, the rent shall also include:
(A) The actual cost of utilities not included in the rent;
(B) The nationwide average utility allowance, as issued periodically by FHFA;
(C) The utility allowance established under the HUD Section 8 Program (42 U.S.C. 1437f) for the area where the property is located; or
(D) The utility allowance for the area in which the property is located, as established by the state or local housing finance agency for determining the affordability of low-income housing tax credit properties under section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 42).
Rental unit
means a dwelling unit that is not owner-occupied and is rented or available to rent.
Residence
means a property where one or more families reside.
Resident-owned manufactured housing community,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a manufactured housing community for which the terms and conditions of residency, policies, operations and management are controlled by at least 51 percent of the residents, either directly or through an entity formed under the laws of the state.
Residential economic diversity activity,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means an eligible Enterprise activity, other than an energy or water efficiency improvement activity or other activity that FHFA determines to be ineligible, in connection with mortgages on:
(i) Affordable housing in a high opportunity area; or
(ii) Mixed-income housing in an area of concentrated poverty.
Residential mortgage
means a mortgage on single-family or multifamily housing.
Rural area,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means:
(i) A census tract outside of a metropolitan statistical area as designated by the Office of Management and Budget; or
(ii) A census tract in a metropolitan statistical area as designated by the Office of Management and Budget that is:
(A) Outside of the metropolitan statistical area's Urbanized Areas as designated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural-Urban Commuting Area (RUCA) Code #1, and outside of tracts with a housing density of over 64 housing units per square mile for USDA's RUCA Code #2; or
(B) A colonia census tract that does not satisfy paragraphs (i) or (ii)(A) of this definition.
Seasoned mortgage
means a mortgage on which the date of the mortgage note is more than 1 year before the Enterprise purchased the mortgage.
Second mortgage
means any mortgage that has a lien position subordinate only to the lien of the first mortgage.
Secondary residence
means a dwelling where the mortgagor maintains (or will maintain) a part-time place of abode and typically spends (or will spend) less than the majority of the calendar year. A person may have more than one secondary residence at a time.
Single-family housing
means a residence consisting of one to four dwelling units. Single-family housing includes condominium dwelling units and dwelling units in cooperative housing projects.
Small financial institution,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a financial institution with less than $304 million in assets.
Small multifamily property
means any multifamily property with at least 5 dwelling units but no more than 50 dwelling units.
Small multifamily rental property,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means any property of 5 to 50 rental units.
Statutory Activity,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means an Enterprise activity relating to housing projects under the programs set forth in 12 U.S.C. 4565(a)(1)(B) and § 1282.34(c).
Underserved Markets Plan,
for purposes of subpart C of this part, means a plan prepared by an Enterprise describing the activities and objectives it will undertake to meet its duty to serve each of the three underserved markets.
Utilities
means charges for electricity, piped or bottled gas, water, sewage disposal, fuel (oil, coal, kerosene, wood, solar energy, or other), and garbage and trash collection. Utilities do not include charges for subscription-based television, telephone, or internet service.
Very low-income
means:
(i) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 50 percent of area median income; and
(ii) In the case of rental units, income not in excess of 50 percent of area median income, with adjustments for smaller and larger families in accordance with this part.
[75 FR 55930, Sept. 14, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 2328, Jan. 11, 2013; 80 FR 53430, Sept. 3, 2015; 81 FR 76300, Nov. 2, 2016; 81 FR 96292, Dec. 29, 2016; 83 FR 5899, Feb. 12, 2018; 86 FR 73657, Dec. 28, 2021; 88 FR 23563, Apr. 18, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106275, Dec. 30, 2024, § 1282.1 was amended by revising the definition of “Designated disaster area” effective Feb. 28, 2025 For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1282.1
Definitions.
Designated disaster area
means any census tract that is located in a county designated by the President as adversely affected by a declared major disaster administered by FEMA under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.
), where housing assistance payments were authorized by FEMA. A census tract shall be treated as a “designated disaster area” for purposes of this part beginning on the January 1 after the major disaster declaration of the county, or such earlier date as determined by FHFA, and continuing through December 31 of the third full calendar year following the major disaster declaration. This time period may be adjusted for a particular disaster area by notice from FHFA to the Enterprises.

# Subpart B—Housing Goals
§ 1282.11
General.
(a)
General.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4561-4564, 4566), this subpart establishes:
(1) Three single-family owner-occupied purchase money mortgage housing goals, a single-family owner-occupied purchase money mortgage housing subgoal, a single-family refinancing mortgage housing goal, a multifamily special affordable housing goal, and
two multifamily special affordable housing subgoals;
(2) Requirements for measuring performance under the goals; and
(3) Procedures for monitoring and enforcing the goals.
(b)
Annual goals.
Each housing goal shall be established by regulation no later than December 1 of the preceding year, except that any housing goal may be adjusted by regulation to reflect subsequent available data and market developments.
[75 FR 55930, Sept. 14, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 53430, Sept. 3, 2015; 86 FR 73657, Dec. 28, 2021]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106275, Dec. 30, 2024, § 1282.11 was amended by revising paragraph (a)(1), effective Feb. 28, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1282.11
General.
(a) * * *
(1) Three single-family owner-occupied purchase money mortgage housing goals, two single-family owner-occupied purchase money mortgage housing subgoals, a single-family refinancing mortgage housing goal, two multifamily housing goals, and a multifamily housing subgoal;
§ 1282.12
Single-family housing goals.
(a)
Single-family housing goals.
An Enterprise shall be in compliance with a single-family housing goal if its performance under the housing goal meets or exceeds either:
(1) The share of the market that qualifies for the goal; or
(2) The benchmark level for the goal.
(b)
Size of market.
The size of the market for each goal shall be established annually by FHFA based on data reported pursuant to the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act for a given year. Unless otherwise adjusted by FHFA, the size of the market shall be determined based on the following criteria:
(1) Only owner-occupied, conventional loans shall be considered;
(2) Purchase money mortgages and refinancing mortgages shall only be counted for the applicable goal or goals;
(3) All mortgages flagged as HOEPA loans or subordinate lien loans shall be excluded;
(4) All mortgages with original principal balances above the conforming loan limits for single unit properties for the year being evaluated (rounded to the nearest $1,000) shall be excluded;
(5) All mortgages with rate spreads of 150 basis points or more above the applicable average prime offer rate as reported in the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act data shall be excluded; and
(6) All mortgages that are missing information necessary to determine appropriate counting under the housing goals shall be excluded.
(c)
Low-income families housing goal.
The percentage share of each Enterprise's total purchases of purchase money mortgages on owner-occupied single-family housing that consists of mortgages for low-income families shall meet or exceed either:
(1) The share of such mortgages in the market as defined in paragraph (b) of this section in each year; or
(2) The benchmark level, which for 2022, 2023, and 2024 shall be 28 percent of the total number of purchase money mortgages purchased by that Enterprise in each year that finance owner-occupied single-family properties.
(d)
Very low-income families housing goal.
The percentage share of each Enterprise's total purchases of purchase money mortgages on owner-occupied single-family housing that consists of mortgages for very low-income families shall meet or exceed either:
(1) The share of such mortgages in the market as defined in paragraph (b) of this section in each year; or
(2) The benchmark level, which for 2022, 2023, and 2024 shall be 7 percent of the total number of purchase money mortgages purchased by that Enterprise in each year that finance owner-occupied single-family properties.
(e)
Low-income areas housing goal.
The percentage share of each Enterprise's total purchases of purchase money mortgages on owner-occupied single-family housing that consists of mortgages for families in low-income areas shall meet or exceed either:
(1) The share of such mortgages in the market as defined in paragraph (b) of this section in each year; or
(2) A benchmark level which shall be set annually by FHFA notice based on the sum of the benchmark levels for the low-income census tracts housing subgoal and the minority census tracts
housing subgoal, plus an adjustment factor reflecting the additional incremental share of mortgages for moderate-income families in designated disaster areas in the most recent year for which such data is available.
(f)
Low-income census tracts housing subgoal.
The percentage share of each Enterprise's total purchases of purchase money mortgages on owner-occupied single-family housing that—
(1) Consists of:
(i) Mortgages in low-income census tracts that are not minority census tracts; and
(ii) Mortgages for families with incomes in excess of 100 percent of the area median income in low-income census tracts that are also minority census tracts;
(2) Shall meet or exceed either:
(i) The share of such mortgages in the market as defined in paragraph (b) of this section in each year; or
(ii) The benchmark level, which for 2022, 2023, and 2024 shall be 4 percent of the total number of purchase money mortgages purchased by that Enterprise in each year that finance owner-occupied single-family properties.
(g)
Minority census tracts housing subgoal.
The percentage share of each Enterprise's total purchases of purchase money mortgages on owner-occupied single-family housing that consists of mortgages for moderate-income families in minority census tracts shall meet or exceed either:
(1) The share of such mortgages in the market as defined in paragraph (b) of this section in each year; or
(2) The benchmark level, which for 2022, 2023, and 2024 shall be 10 percent of the total number of purchase money mortgages purchased by that Enterprise in each year that finance owner-occupied single-family properties.
(h)
Refinancing housing goal.
The percentage share of each Enterprise's total purchases of refinancing mortgages on owner-occupied single-family housing that consists of refinancing mortgages for low-income families shall meet or exceed either:
(1) The share of such mortgages in the market as defined in paragraph (b) of this section in each year; or
(2) The benchmark level, which for 2022, 2023, and 2024 shall be 26 percent of the total number of refinancing mortgages purchased by that Enterprise in each year that finance owner-occupied single-family properties.
[80 FR 53430, Sept. 3, 2015, as amended at 83 FR 5899, Feb. 12, 2018; 85 FR 82895, Dec. 21, 2020' 86 FR 73658, Dec. 28, 2021]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106275, Dec. 30, 2024, § 1282.12 was amended by revising paragraphs (c)(2), (d)(2), (f)(2)(ii), (g)(2), and (h)(2), effective Feb. 28, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1282.12
Single-family housing goals and subgoals.
(c) * * *
(2) The benchmark level, which for 2025, 2026, and 2027 shall be 25 percent of the total number of purchase money mortgages purchased by that Enterprise in each year that finance owner-occupied single-family properties.
(d) * * *
(2) The benchmark level, which for 2025, 2026, and 2027 shall be 6 percent of the total number of purchase money mortgages purchased by that Enterprise in each year that finance owner-occupied single-family properties.
(f) * * *
(2) * * *
(ii) The benchmark level, which for 2025, 2026, and 2027 shall be 4 percent of the total number of purchase money mortgages purchased by that Enterprise in each year that finance owner-occupied single-family properties.
(g) * * *
(2) The benchmark level, which for 2025, 2026, and 2027 shall be 12 percent of the total number of purchase money mortgages purchased by that Enterprise in each year that finance owner-occupied single-family properties.
(h) * * *
(2) The benchmark level, which for 2025, 2026, and 2027 shall be 26 percent of the total number of refinancing mortgages purchased by that Enterprise in each year that finance owner-occupied single-family properties.
§ 1282.13
Multifamily special affordable housing goal and subgoals.
(a)
Multifamily housing goal and subgoals.
An Enterprise shall be in compliance with a multifamily housing goal or subgoal if its performance under the housing goal or subgoal
meets or exceeds the benchmark level for the goal or subgoal, respectively.
(b)
Multifamily low-income housing goal.
The percentage share of dwelling units in multifamily residential housing financed by mortgages purchased by each Enterprise that consists of dwelling units affordable to low-income families shall meet or exceed 61 percent of the total number of dwelling units in multifamily residential housing financed by mortgages purchased by the Enterprise in each year for 2023 and 2024.
(c)
Multifamily very low-income housing subgoal.
The percentage share of dwelling units in multifamily residential housing financed by mortgages purchased by each Enterprise that consists of dwelling units affordable to very low-income families shall meet or exceed 12 percent of the total number of dwelling units in multifamily residential housing financed by mortgages purchased by the Enterprise in each year for 2023 and 2024.
(d)
Small multifamily low-income housing subgoal.
The percentage share of dwelling units in small multifamily properties financed by mortgages purchased by each Enterprise that consists of dwelling units affordable to low-income families shall meet or exceed 2.5 percent of the total number of dwelling units in all multifamily residential housing financed by mortgages purchased by the Enterprise in each year for 2023 and 2024.
[83 FR 5899, Feb. 12, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 82896, Dec. 21, 2020; 86 FR 73658, Dec. 28, 2022; 87 FR 78846, Dec. 23, 2022]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106275, Dec. 30, 2024, § 1282.13 was revised, effective Feb. 28, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1282.13
Multifamily housing goals and subgoal.
(a)
Multifamily housing goals and subgoal.
An Enterprise shall be in compliance with a multifamily housing goal or subgoal if its performance under the housing goal or subgoal meets or exceeds the benchmark level for the goal or subgoal, respectively.
(b)
Multifamily low-income housing goal.
The percentage share of dwelling units in multifamily residential housing financed by mortgages purchased by each Enterprise that consists of dwelling units affordable to low-income families shall meet or exceed 61 percent of the total number of dwelling units in multifamily residential housing financed by mortgages purchased by the Enterprise in each year for 2025, 2026, and 2027.
(c)
Multifamily very low-income housing goal.
The percentage share of dwelling units in multifamily residential housing financed by mortgages purchased by each Enterprise that consists of dwelling units affordable to very low-income families shall meet or exceed 14 percent of the total number of dwelling units in multifamily residential housing financed by mortgages purchased by the Enterprise in each year for 2025, 2026, and 2027.
(d)
Small multifamily low-income housing subgoal.
The percentage share of dwelling units in small multifamily properties financed by mortgages purchased by each Enterprise that consists of dwelling units affordable to low-income families shall meet or exceed 2 percent of the total number of dwelling units in all multifamily residential housing financed by mortgages purchased by the Enterprise in each year for 2025, 2026, and 2027.
§ 1282.14
Discretionary adjustment of housing goals.
(a) An Enterprise may petition the Director in writing during any year to reduce any goal or subgoal for that year.
(b) The Director shall seek public comment on any such petition for a period of 30 days.
(c) The Director shall make a determination regarding the petition within 30 days after the end of the public comment period. If the Director requests additional information from the Enterprise after the end of the public comment period, the Director may extend the period for a final determination for a single additional 15-day period.
(d) The Director may reduce a goal or subgoal pursuant to a petition for reduction only if:
(1) Market and economic conditions or the financial condition of the Enterprise require such a reduction; or
(2) Efforts to meet the goal or subgoal would result in the constraint of liquidity, over-investment in certain market segments, or other consequences contrary to the intent of the Safety and Soundness Act or the purposes of the Charter Acts (12 U.S.C. 1716; 12 U.S.C. 1451 note).
§ 1282.15
General counting requirements.
(a)
Calculating the numerator and denominator for single-family housing goals.
Performance under each of the single-family housing goals shall be measured using a fraction that is converted into a percentage. Neither the numerator nor the denominator shall include Enterprise transactions or activities that are not mortgage purchases as defined by FHFA or that are specifically excluded as ineligible under § 1282.16(b).
(1)
The numerator.
The numerator of each fraction is the number of mortgage purchases of an Enterprise in a particular year that finance owner-occupied single-family properties that count toward achievement of a particular single-family housing goal.
(2)
The denominator.
The denominator of each fraction is the total number of mortgage purchases of an Enterprise in a particular year that finance owner-occupied single-family properties. A separate denominator shall be calculated for purchase money mortgages and for refinancing mortgages.
(b)
Counting owner-occupied units.
(1) Mortgage purchases financing owner-occupied single-family properties shall be evaluated based on the income of the mortgagors and the area median income at the time the mortgage was originated. To determine whether mortgages may be counted under a particular family income level,
i.e.,
low- or very low-income, the income of the mortgagors is compared to the median income for the area at the time the mortgage was originated, using the appropriate percentage factor provided under § 1282.17.
(2) Mortgage purchases financing owner-occupied single-family properties for which the income of the mortgagors is not available shall be included in the denominator for the single-family housing goals and subgoal, but such mortgages shall not be counted in the numerator of any single-family housing goal or subgoal.
(c)
Calculating the numerator and denominator for multifamily housing goals.
Performance under the multifamily housing goal and subgoals shall be measured using a fraction that is converted into a percentage. Neither the numerator nor the denominator shall include Enterprise transactions or activities that are not mortgage purchases as defined by FHFA or that are specifically excluded as ineligible under § 1282.16(b).
(1)
The numerator.
The numerator of each fraction is the number of dwelling units that count toward achievement of a particular multifamily housing goal or subgoal in properties financed by mortgages purchased by an Enterprise in a particular year.
(2)
The denominator.
The denominator of each fraction is the total number of dwelling units in properties financed by mortgages purchased by an Enterprise in a particular year.
(d)
Counting rental units
—(1)
Use of rent.
For purposes of counting rental units toward achievement of the multifamily housing goal and subgoals, mortgage purchases financing such units shall be evaluated based on rent and whether the rent is affordable to the income group targeted by the housing goal and subgoals. A rent is affordable if the rent does not exceed the maximum levels as provided in § 1282.19.
(2)
Affordability of rents based on housing program requirements.
Where a multifamily property is subject to an affordability restriction under a housing program that establishes the maximum permitted income level for a tenant or a prospective tenant or the maximum permitted rent, the affordability of units in the property may be determined based on the maximum permitted income level or maximum permitted rent established under such housing program for those units. If using income, the maximum income level must be no greater than the maximum income level for each goal, adjusted for family or unit size as provided in § 1282.17 or § 1282.18, as appropriate. If using rent, the maximum rent level must be no greater than the maximum rent level for each goal, adjusted for unit size as provided in § 1282.19.
(3)
Unoccupied units.
Anticipated rent for unoccupied units may be the market rent for similar units in the neighborhood as determined by the lender or appraiser for underwriting purposes. A unit in a multifamily property that is unoccupied because it is being used as a model unit or rental office may be counted for purposes of the multifamily housing goal and subgoals only if an Enterprise determines that the
number of such units is reasonable and minimal considering the size of the multifamily property.
(4)
Timeliness of information.
In evaluating affordability under the multifamily housing goal and subgoals, each Enterprise shall use tenant and rental information as of the time of mortgage acquisition.
(e)
Missing data or information for multifamily housing goal and subgoals.
(1) Rental units for which bedroom data are missing shall be considered efficiencies for purposes of calculating unit affordability.
(2) When an Enterprise lacks sufficient information to determine whether a rental unit in a property securing a multifamily mortgage purchased by an Enterprise counts toward achievement of the multifamily housing goal or subgoals because rental data is not available, an Enterprise's performance with respect to such unit may be evaluated using estimated affordability information by multiplying the number of rental units with missing affordability information in properties securing multifamily mortgages purchased by the Enterprise in each census tract by the percentage of all rental dwelling units in the respective tracts that would count toward achievement of each goal and subgoal, as determined by FHFA.
(3) The estimation methodology in paragraph (e)(2) of this section may be used up to a nationwide maximum of 5 percent of the total number of rental units in properties securing multifamily mortgages purchased by the Enterprise in the current year. Multifamily rental units with missing affordability information in excess of this maximum shall be included in the denominator for the multifamily housing goal and subgoals, but such rental units shall not be counted in the numerator of any multifamily housing goal or subgoal. Multifamily rental units with missing affordability information for which estimation information is not available shall be excluded from both the numerator and the denominator for purposes of the multifamily housing goal and subgoals.
(f)
Credit toward multiple goals.
A mortgage purchase (or dwelling unit financed by such purchase) by an Enterprise in a particular year shall count toward the achievement of each housing goal for which such purchase (or dwelling unit) qualifies in that year.
(g)
Application of median income.
For purposes of determining an area's median income under §§ 1282.17 through 1282.19 and the definitions in § 1282.1, the area is:
(1) The metropolitan area, if the property which is the subject of the mortgage is in a metropolitan area; and
(2) In all other areas, the county in which the property is located, except that where the State non-metropolitan median income is higher than the county's median income, the area is the State non-metropolitan area.
(h)
Sampling not permitted.
Performance under the housing goals for each year shall be based on a complete tabulation of mortgage purchases (or dwelling units) for that year; a sampling of such purchases (or dwelling units) is not acceptable.
[75 FR 55930, Sept. 14, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 53431, Sept. 3, 2015; 83 FR 5899, Feb. 12, 2018; 86 FR 73658, Dec. 28, 2021; 87 FR 78846, Dec. 23, 2022]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106275, Dec. 30, 2024, § 1285.15 was amended In paragraph (b)(2), remove the first instance of “subgoal” and add in its place “subgoals”, revise the heading and the first sentence of paragraph (c), in paragraphs (d)(1), (3), and (4) and (e)(3), remove the phrase “housing goal and subgoals” wherever it appears and add in its place the phrase “housing goals and subgoal”,revise the heading to paragraph (e) and in paragraph (e)(2), remove the phrase “housing goal or subgoals” and add in its place the phrase “housing goals or subgoal”, effective Feb. 28, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1282.15
General counting requirements.
(c)
Calculating the numerator and denominator for multifamily housing goals and subgoal.
Performance under the multifamily housing goals and subgoal shall be measured using a fraction that is converted into a percentage. * * *
(e)
Missing data or information for multifamily housing goals and subgoal.
* * *
§ 1282.16
Special counting requirements.
(a)
General.
FHFA shall determine whether an Enterprise shall receive full, partial, or no credit toward achievement of any of the housing goals for a transaction that otherwise qualifies under this part. In this determination, FHFA will consider whether a transaction or activity of the Enterprise is substantially equivalent to a mortgage purchase and either creates a new market or adds liquidity to an existing market, provided however that such mortgage purchase actually fulfills the Enterprise's purposes and is in accordance with its Charter Act.
(b)
Not counted.
The following transactions or activities shall not be counted for purposes of the housing goals and shall not be included in the numerator or the denominator in calculating either Enterprise's performance under the housing goals, even if the transaction or activity would otherwise be counted pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) Equity investments in low-income housing tax credits;
(2) Purchases of State and local government housing bonds except as provided in paragraph (c)(8) of this section;
(3) Purchases of single-family non-conventional mortgages and multifamily non-conventional mortgages, except:
(i) Multifamily mortgages acquired under a risk-sharing arrangement with a Federal agency;
(ii) Multifamily mortgages under other multifamily mortgage programs involving Federal guarantees, insurance or other Federal obligation where FHFA determines in writing that the financing needs addressed by the particular mortgage program are not well served and that the mortgage purchases under such program should count under the housing goals;
(4) Commitments to buy mortgages at a later date or time;
(5) Options to acquire mortgages;
(6) Rights of first refusal to acquire mortgages;
(7) Any interests in mortgages that the Director determines, in writing, shall not be treated as interests in mortgages;
(8) Mortgage purchases to the extent they finance any dwelling units that are secondary residences;
(9) Single-family refinancing mortgages that result from conversion of balloon notes to fully amortizing notes, if the Enterprise already owns or has an interest in the balloon note at the time conversion occurs;
(10) Purchases of subordinate lien mortgages (second mortgages);
(11) Purchases of mortgages or interests in mortgages that were previously counted by the Enterprise under any current or previous housing goal within the five years immediately preceding the current performance year;
(12) Purchases of mortgages where the property, or any units within the property, have not been approved for occupancy;
(13) Purchases of private label securities;
(14) Enterprise contributions to the Housing Trust Fund (12 U.S.C. 4568) or the Capital Magnet Fund (12 U.S.C. 4569), and mortgage purchases funded with such grant amounts; and
(15) Any combination of factors in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(14) of this section.
(c)
Other special rules.
Subject to FHFA's determination of whether an Enterprise shall receive full, partial, or no credit for a transaction toward achievement of any of the housing goals as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the transactions and activities identified in this paragraph (c) shall be treated as mortgage purchases as described. A transaction or activity that is covered by more than one paragraph below must satisfy the requirements of each such paragraph. The mortgages (or dwelling units, for the multifamily housing goals) from each such transaction or activity shall be included in the denominator in calculating the Enterprise's performance under the housing goals, and shall be included in the numerator, as appropriate.
(1)
Credit enhancements.
(i) Mortgages (or dwelling units) financed under a credit enhancement entered into by an Enterprise shall be treated as mortgage purchases for purposes of the housing goals only when:
(A) The Enterprise provides a specific contractual obligation to ensure timely payment of amounts due under a mortgage or mortgages financed by the issuance of housing bonds (such bonds may be issued by any entity, including a State or local housing finance agency); and
(B) The Enterprise assumes a credit risk in the transaction substantially equivalent to the risk that would have been assumed by the Enterprise if it had securitized the mortgages financed by such bonds.
(ii) When an Enterprise provides a specific contractual obligation to ensure timely payment of amounts due under any mortgage originally insured by a public purpose mortgage insurance entity or fund, the Enterprise may, on a case-by-case basis, seek approval from the Director for such activities to count toward achievement of the housing goals.
(2) [Reserved]
(3)
Risk-sharing.
Mortgages purchased under risk-sharing arrangements between an Enterprise and any Federal agency under which the Enterprise is responsible for a substantial amount of the risk shall be treated as mortgage purchases for purposes of the housing goals.
(4)
Participations.
Participations purchased by an Enterprise shall be treated as mortgage purchases for purposes of the housing goals only when the Enterprise's participation in the mortgage is 50 percent or more.
(5)
Cooperative housing and condominiums.
(i) The purchase of a mortgage on a cooperative housing unit (“a share loan”) or a mortgage on a condominium unit shall be treated as a mortgage purchase for purposes of the housing goals. Such a purchase shall be counted in the same manner as a mortgage purchase of single-family owner-occupied units.
(ii) The purchase of a blanket mortgage on a cooperative building or a mortgage on a condominium project shall be treated as a mortgage purchase for purposes of the housing goals. The purchase of a blanket mortgage on a cooperative building shall be counted in the same manner as a mortgage purchase of a multifamily rental property, except that affordability must be determined based solely on the comparable market rents used in underwriting the blanket loan. If the underwriting rents are not available, the loan shall not be treated as a mortgage purchase for purposes of the housing goals. The purchase of a mortgage on a condominium project shall be counted in the same manner as a mortgage purchase of a multifamily rental property.
(iii) Where an Enterprise purchases both a blanket mortgage on a cooperative building and share loans for units in the same building, both the mortgage on the cooperative building and the share loans shall be treated as mortgage purchases for purposes of the housing goals. Where an Enterprise purchases both a mortgage on a condominium project and mortgages on individual dwelling units in the same project, both the mortgage on the condominium project and the mortgages on individual dwelling units shall be treated as mortgage purchases for purposes of the housing goals.
(6)
Seasoned mortgages.
An Enterprise's purchase of a seasoned mortgage shall be treated as a mortgage purchase for purposes of the housing goals, except where the Enterprise has already counted the mortgage under any current or previous housing goal within the five years immediately preceding the current performance year.
(7)
Purchase of refinancing mortgages.
The purchase of a refinancing mortgage by an Enterprise shall be treated as a mortgage purchase for purposes of the housing goals only if the refinancing is an arms-length transaction that is borrower-driven.
(8)
Mortgage revenue bonds.
The purchase or guarantee by an Enterprise of a mortgage revenue bond issued by a State or local housing finance agency shall be treated as a purchase of the underlying mortgages for purposes of the housing goals only to the extent the Enterprise has sufficient information to determine whether the underlying mortgages or mortgage-backed securities qualify for inclusion in the numerator for one or more housing goal.
(9) -(13) [Reserved]
(14)
Seller dissolution option.
(i) Mortgages acquired through transactions involving seller dissolution options
shall be treated as mortgage purchases for purposes of the housing goals, only when:
(A) The terms of the transaction provide for a lockout period that prohibits the exercise of the dissolution option for at least one year from the date on which the transaction was entered into by the Enterprise and the seller of the mortgages; and
(B) The transaction is not dissolved during the one-year minimum lockout period.
(ii) The Director may grant an exception to the one-year minimum lockout period described in paragraphs (c)(14)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, in response to a written request from an Enterprise, if the Director determines that the transaction furthers the purposes of the Safety and Soundness Act and the Enterprise's Charter Act.
(iii) For purposes of this paragraph (c)(14), “seller dissolution option” means an option for a seller of mortgages to the Enterprises to dissolve or otherwise cancel a mortgage purchase agreement or loan sale.
(d)
HOEPA mortgages.
HOEPA mortgages shall be treated as mortgage purchases for purposes of the housing goals and shall be included in the denominator for each applicable single-family housing goal, but such mortgages shall not be counted in the numerator for any housing goal.
(e)
FHFA review of transactions.
FHFA may determine whether and how any transaction or class of transactions shall be counted for purposes of the housing goals, including treatment of missing data. FHFA will notify each Enterprise in writing of any determination regarding the treatment of any transaction or class of transactions under the housing goals. FHFA will make any such determinations available to the public on FHFA's Web site,
www.fhfa.gov.
[75 FR 55930, Sept. 14, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 53432, Sept. 3, 2015; 86 FR 73658, Dec. 28, 2021]
§ 1282.17
Affordability—Income level definitions—family size and income known (owner-occupied units, actual tenants, and prospective tenants).
In determining whether a dwelling unit is affordable where income information (and family size, for rental units) is known to the Enterprise, the affordability of the unit shall be determined as follows:
(a)
Moderate-income
means:
(1) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 100 percent of area median income; and
(2) In the case of rental units, where the income of actual or prospective tenants is available, income not in excess of the following percentages of area median income corresponding to the following family sizes:
Number of persons in family
Percentage of area
median income
1
70
2
80
3
90
4
100
5 or more
*
*100% plus (8% multiplied by the number of persons in excess of 4).
(b)
Low-income (80%)
means:
(1) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 80 percent of area median income; and
(2) In the case of rental units, where the income of actual or prospective tenants is available, income not in excess of the following percentages of area median income corresponding to the following family sizes:
Number of persons in family
Percentage of area
median income
1
56
2
64
3
72
4
80
5 or more
*
*80% plus (6.4% multiplied by the number of persons in excess of 4).
(c)
Low-income (60%)
means:
(1) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 60 percent of area median income; and
(2) In the case of rental units, where the income of actual or prospective
tenants is available, income not in excess of the following percentages of area median income corresponding to the following family sizes:
Number of persons in family
Percentage of area
median income
1
42
2
48
3
54
4
60
5 or more
*
*60% plus (4.8% multiplied by the number of persons in excess of 4).
(d)
Very low-income
means:
(1) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 50 percent of area median income; and
(2) In the case of rental units, where the income of actual or prospective tenants is available, income not in excess of the following percentages of area median income corresponding to the following family sizes:
Number of persons in family
Percentage of area
median income
1
35
2
40
3
45
4
50
5 or more
*
*50% plus (4.0% multiplied by the number of persons in excess of 4).
(e)
Extremely low-income
means:
(1) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 30 percent of area median income; and
(2) In the case of rental units, where the income of actual or prospective tenants is available, income not in excess of the following percentages of area median income corresponding to the following family sizes:
Number of persons in family
Percentage of area
median income
1
21
2
24
3
27
4
30
5 or more
*
*30% plus (2.4% multiplied by the number of persons in excess of 4).
[75 FR 55930, Sept. 14, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 53432, Sept. 3, 2015]
§ 1282.18
Affordability—Income level definitions—family size not known (actual or prospective tenants).
In determining whether a rental unit is affordable where family size is not known to the Enterprise, income will be adjusted using unit size, and affordability determined as follows:
(a)
For moderate-income,
the income of prospective tenants shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
70
1 bedroom
75
2 bedrooms
90
3 bedrooms or more
*
*104% plus (12% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
(b)
For low-income (80%),
income of prospective tenants shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
56
1 bedroom
60
2 bedrooms
72
3 bedrooms or more
*
*83.2% plus (9.6% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
(c)
For low-income (60%),
income of prospective tenants shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
42
1 bedroom
45
2 bedrooms
54
3 bedrooms or more
*
*62.4% plus (7.2% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
(d)
For very low-income,
income of prospective tenants shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
35
1 bedroom
37.5
2 bedrooms
45
3 bedrooms or more
*
*52% plus (6.0% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
(e)
For extremely low-income,
income of prospective tenants shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
21
1 bedroom
22.5
2 bedrooms
27
3 bedrooms or more
*
*31.2% plus (3.6% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
§ 1282.19
Affordability—Rent level definitions—tenant income is not known.
For purposes of determining whether a rental unit is affordable where the income of the family in the dwelling unit is not known to the Enterprise, the affordability of the unit is determined based on unit size as follows:
(a)
For moderate-income,
maximum affordable rents to count as housing for moderate-income families shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
21
1 bedroom
22.5
2 bedrooms
27
3 bedrooms or more
*
*31.2% plus (3.6% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
(b)
For low-income (80%),
maximum affordable rents to count as housing for low-income (80%) families shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
16.8
1 bedroom
18
2 bedrooms
21.6
3 bedrooms or more
*
*24.96% plus (2.88% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
(c)
For low-income (60%),
maximum affordable rents to count as housing for low-income (60%) families shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
12.6
1 bedroom
13.5
2 bedrooms
16.2
3 bedrooms or more
*
*18.72% plus (2.16% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
(d)
For very low-income,
maximum affordable rents to count as housing for very low-income families shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
10.5
1 bedroom
11.25
2 bedrooms
13.5
3 bedrooms or more
*
*15.6% plus (1.8% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
(e)
For extremely low-income,
maximum affordable rents to count as housing for extremely low-income families shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area
median income
Efficiency
6.3
1 bedroom
6.75
2 bedrooms
8.1
3 bedrooms or more
*
* 9.36% plus (1.08% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
[75 FR 55930, Sept. 14, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 53432, Sept. 3, 2015]
§ 1282.20
Determination of compliance with housing goals; notice of determination.
(a)
Single-family housing goals.
The Director shall evaluate each Enterprise's
performance under the low-income families housing goal, the very low-income families housing goal, the low-income areas housing goal, the low-income areas housing subgoal, and the refinancing mortgages housing goal on an annual basis. If the Director determines that an Enterprise has failed, or there is a substantial probability that an Enterprise will fail, to meet a single-family housing goal established by this subpart, the Director shall notify the Enterprise in writing of such preliminary determination.
(b)
Multifamily housing goal and subgoals.
The Director shall evaluate each Enterprise's performance under the multifamily low-income housing goal, the multifamily very low-income housing subgoal, and the small multifamily low-income housing subgoal, on an annual basis. If the Director determines that an Enterprise has failed, or there is a substantial probability that an Enterprise will fail, to meet a multifamily housing goal or subgoal established by this subpart, the Director shall notify the Enterprise in writing of such preliminary determination.
(c) Any notification to an Enterprise of a preliminary determination under this section shall provide the Enterprise with an opportunity to respond in writing in accordance with the procedures at 12 U.S.C. 4566(b).
[75 FR 55930, Sept. 14, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 53433, Sept. 3, 2015]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106276, Dec. 30, 2024, § 1282.20 was revised, effective Feb. 28, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1282.20
Preliminary determination of compliance with housing goals; notice of preliminary determination.
(a)
Preliminary determination.
On an annual basis, the Director will evaluate each Enterprise's performance under each single-family housing goal and subgoal and each multifamily housing goal and subgoal. The Director will make a preliminary determination of whether an Enterprise has failed, or there is a substantial probability that an Enterprise will fail, to meet each housing goal or subgoal established by this subpart.
(b)
Notice of preliminary determination.
The Director will provide written notice to each Enterprise of the preliminary determination of its performance under each housing goal and subgoal established by this subpart, the reasons for such determination, and the information on which the Director based the determination.
(c)
Response by Enterprise.
Any notification to an Enterprise of a preliminary determination under this section will provide the Enterprise with an opportunity to respond in writing in accordance with the procedures at 12 U.S.C. 4566(b). Relevant information in a timely written response from an Enterprise will be included in the information the Director considers when making a final determination of housing goals compliance under § 1282.21.
§ 1282.21
Housing plans.
(a)
General.
If the Director determines that an Enterprise has failed, or there is a substantial probability that an Enterprise will fail, to meet any housing goal and that the achievement of the housing goal was or is feasible, the Director may require the Enterprise to submit a housing plan for approval by the Director.
(b)
Nature of plan.
If the Director requires a housing plan, the housing plan shall:
(1) Be feasible;
(2) Be sufficiently specific to enable the Director to monitor compliance periodically;
(3) Describe the specific actions that the Enterprise will take in a time period determined by the Director to improve the Enterprise's performance under the housing goal; and
(4) Address any additional matters relevant to the plan as required, in writing, by the Director.
(c)
Deadline for submission.
The Enterprise shall submit the housing plan to the Director within 45 days after issuance of a notice requiring the Enterprise to submit a housing plan. The Director may extend the deadline for submission of a plan, in writing and for a time certain, to the extent the Director determines an extension is necessary.
(d)
Review of housing plans.
The Director shall review and approve or disapprove housing plans in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4566(c)(4) and (c)(5).
(e)
Resubmission.
If the Director disapproves an initial housing plan submitted by an Enterprise, the Enterprise shall submit an amended plan acceptable to the Director not later than 15 days after the Director's disapproval of the initial plan; the Director may
extend the deadline if the Director determines an extension is in the public interest. If the amended plan is not acceptable to the Director, the Director may afford the Enterprise 15 days to submit a new plan.
[75 FR 55930, Sept. 14, 2010, as amended at 83 FR 5899, Feb. 12, 2018]

# Effective Date Notes:
At 89 FR 106276, Dec. 30, 2024, § 1282.21 was redesignated as 1282.22, effective Feb. 28, 2025.
2. At 89 FR 106276, Dec. 30, 2024, a new § 1282.21 was added, effective Feb. 28, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added text is set forth as follows:
§ 1282.21
Final determination of compliance with housing goals; notice of final determination.
(a)
Final determination.
On an annual basis, the Director will make a final determination of each Enterprise's performance under each single-family housing goal and subgoal and each multifamily housing goal and subgoal. The final determination will address whether an Enterprise has failed, or there is a substantial probability that an Enterprise will fail, to meet any housing goal or subgoal and whether the achievement of that housing goal or subgoal was or is feasible.
(b)
Notice of final determination.
The Director will provide each Enterprise with written notification of the final determination. If the Enterprise fails to meet any housing goal or subgoal, the notification will specify whether the Enterprise is required to submit a housing plan for approval under § 1282.22.
§ 1282.22
Housing plans.
(a)
General.
If the Director determines that an Enterprise has failed, or that there is a substantial probability that an Enterprise will fail, to meet any housing goal or subgoal, and that the achievement of the housing goal or subgoal was or is feasible, the Director may require the Enterprise to submit a housing plan for approval by the Director.
(b)
Measurement buffers for 2025-2027.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Director will not require an Enterprise to submit a housing plan based on the Enterprise's failure to meet the single-family low-income families housing goal, the single-family very low-income families housing goal, or the single-family refinancing housing goal for the years 2025, 2026, or 2027, if:
(i) The share of the market as defined in § 1282.12(b) for the applicable goal is lower than the benchmark level for the goal; and
(ii) The Enterprise's performance meets or exceeds the share of the market minus the measurement buffer for the applicable goal as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) The following measurement buffers apply for the years 2025, 2026, and 2027:
(i) For the single-family low-income families housing goal, 1.3 percentage points;
(ii) For the single-family very low-income families housing goal, 0.5 percentage points; and
(iii) For the single-family refinancing housing goal, 1.3 percentage points.
(3) The measurement buffers in this paragraph (b) will not apply to a goal in 2027 if the Enterprise failed to meet that goal for each of the previous two years.
(c)
Nature of plan.
If the Director requires a housing plan, the housing plan must:
(1) Be feasible;
(2) Be sufficiently specific to enable the Director to monitor compliance periodically;
(3) Describe the specific actions that the Enterprise will take in a time period determined by the Director to improve the Enterprise's performance under the housing goal or subgoal; and
(4) Address any additional matters relevant to the plan as required, in writing, by the Director.
(d)
Deadline for submission.
The Enterprise shall submit the housing plan to the Director within 45 days after issuance of a notice requiring the Enterprise to submit a housing plan. The Director may extend the deadline for submission of a plan, in writing and for a time certain, to the extent the Director determines an extension is necessary.
(e)
Review of housing plans.
The Director shall review and approve or disapprove housing plans in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4566(c)(4) and (c)(5).
(f)
Resubmission.
If the Director disapproves an initial housing plan submitted by an Enterprise, the Enterprise shall submit an amended plan for approval or disapproval not later than 15 days after the Director's disapproval of the initial plan; the Director may
extend the deadline if the Director determines an extension is in the public interest. If an amended plan is not acceptable to the Director, the Director may afford the Enterprise 15 days to submit additional amendments to its plan for approval or disapproval.
(g)
Enforcement of housing plans.
If the Director requires an Enterprise to submit a housing plan and the Enterprise refuses to submit such a plan, submits an unacceptable plan, or fails to comply with the plan, the Director may issue a cease and desist order in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4581, impose civil money penalties in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4585, or take any other action that the Director determines to be appropriate, consistent with the Safety and Soundness Act.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106276, Dec. 30, 2024, newly redesignated § 1282.22 was revised, effective Feb. 28, 2025.

# Subpart C—Duty to Serve Underserved Markets

# Source:
81 FR 96294, Dec. 29, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1282.31
General.
(a) This subpart sets forth the Enterprise duty to serve three underserved markets as required by section 1335 of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4565). This subpart also establishes standards and procedures for annually evaluating and rating Enterprise compliance with the duty to serve underserved markets.
(b) Nothing in this subpart permits or requires an Enterprise to engage in any activity that would otherwise be inconsistent with its Charter Act or the Safety and Soundness Act.
§ 1282.32
Underserved Markets Plan.
(a)
General.
Each Enterprise must submit to FHFA an Underserved Markets Plan describing the activities and objectives it will undertake to meet its duty to serve each of the three underserved markets. Plan activities and objectives may cover a single year or multiple years.
(b)
Term of Plan.
Each Enterprise's Plan must cover a period of three years.
(c)
Effective date of Plans.
Where an underserved market in a Plan receives a Non-Objection from FHFA by December 1 of the prior year, the effective date for that underserved market in the Plan will be January 1 of the first evaluation year for which the Plan is applicable. Where an underserved market in a Plan does not receive a Non-Objection from FHFA by December 1 of the prior year, the effective date for that underserved market in the Plan will be as determined by FHFA.
(d)
Plan content.
—(1)
Consideration of minimum number of activities.
The Enterprises must consider and address in their Plans a minimum number of Statutory Activities or Regulatory Activities for each underserved market. The minimum number will be determined by FHFA and stated in the Evaluation Guidance as provided for in § 1282.36(d). An Enterprise will select the specific Statutory Activities or Regulatory Activities to address in its Plan under this requirement. For the activities selected by the Enterprise, the Enterprise must address in its Plan either how it will undertake the activities and related objectives, or the reasons why it will not undertake the activities. The statutory programs in § 1282.34(c)(5) and (c)(6) are excluded for this purpose.
(2)
Additional Activities.
An Enterprise may also include in its Plan Additional Activities eligible to serve an underserved market. For the Additional Activities included by the Enterprise, the Enterprise must address in its Plan how it will undertake the activities and related objectives.
(3)
Residential economic diversity activities.
If an Enterprises chooses to undertake a residential economic diversity activity for extra credit under § 1282.36(c)(3), the Enterprise must describe the activity and related objectives in its Plan.
(e)
Objectives.
Each Statutory Activity, Regulatory Activity, and Additional Activity in an Enterprise's Plan must comprise one or more objectives, which are the specific action items that the Enterprises will identify for each activity. Each objective must meet all of the following requirements:
(1)
Strategic.
Directly or indirectly maintain or increase liquidity to an underserved market;
(2)
Measurable.
Provide measurable benchmarks, which may include numerical targets, that enable FHFA to determine whether the Enterprise has achieved the objective;
(3)
Realistic.
Be calibrated so that the Enterprise has a reasonable chance of meeting the objective with appropriate effort;
(4)
Time-bound.
Be subject to a specific timeframe for completion by being tied to Plan calendar year evaluation periods; and
(5)
Tied to analysis of market opportunities.
Be based on assessments and analyses of market opportunities in each underserved market, taking into account safety and soundness considerations.
(f)
Evaluation areas.
Each Plan objective must meet at least one of the evaluation areas set forth in § 1282.36(b). An Enterprise must designate in its Plan the one evaluation area under which each Plan objective will be evaluated.
(g)
Plan procedures.
—(1)
Submission of proposed Plans.
—(i)
First proposed Plan.
An Enterprise's first proposed Plan must be submitted to FHFA within 90 days after FHFA posts the proposed Evaluation Guidance on FHFA's Web site pursuant to § 1282.36(d)(3).
(ii)
Subsequent proposed Plans.
For subsequent proposed Plans after the first Plan, FHFA will provide timelines 300 days before the termination date of the Plan in effect, or a later date if additional time is necessary, for proposed Plan submission, public input periods, and Non-Objection to an underserved market in a Plan. Unless otherwise directed by FHFA, each Enterprise must submit a proposed Plan to FHFA at least 210 days before the termination date of the Enterprise's Plan in effect.
(2)
Posting of proposed Plans.
As soon as practical after an Enterprise submits its proposed Plan to FHFA for review, FHFA will post the proposed Plan on FHFA's Web site, with any confidential and proprietary data and information omitted.
(3)
Public input.
—(i) For the first proposed Plans, the public will have 60 days from the date the proposed Plans are posted on FHFA's Web site to provide input on the proposed Plans.
(ii) The Enterprises' subsequent proposed Plans will be available for public input pursuant to the timeframe and procedures established by FHFA.
(4)
Enterprise review.
Each Enterprise may, in its discretion, make revisions to its proposed Plan based on the public input.
(5)
FHFA review.
—(i)
FHFA review of first proposed Plans.
FHFA will review each Enterprise's first proposed Plan and inform the Enterprise of any FHFA comments on the proposed Plan within 60 days from the end of the public input period on the proposed Plan, or such additional time as may be necessary. The Enterprise must address FHFA's comments, as appropriate, through revisions to its proposed Plan pursuant to the timeframe and procedures established by FHFA.
(ii)
FHFA review of subsequent proposed Plans.
For subsequent proposed Plans after the first proposed Plans, FHFA will establish a timeframe and procedures for FHFA review, comments, and any required Enterprise revisions.
(iii)
Designation of Statutory Activity or Regulatory Activity.
FHFA may, in its discretion, designate in the Evaluation Guidance one Statutory Activity or Regulatory Activity in each underserved market that FHFA will significantly consider in determining whether to provide a Non-Objection to that underserved market in a proposed Plan.
(iv)
FHFA Non-Objections to underserved markets in a proposed Plan.
After FHFA is satisfied that all of its comments on an underserved market in a proposed Plan have been addressed, FHFA will issue a Non-Objection for that underserved market in the Plan.
(6)
Effective date of an underserved market in a Plan.
Where an underserved market in a Plan receives a Non-Objection from FHFA by December 1 of the prior year, the effective date for that underserved market in the Plan will be January 1 of the first evaluation year for which the Plan is applicable. Where an underserved market in a Plan does not receive a Non-Objection from FHFA by December 1 of the prior year, the effective date for that underserved
market in the Plan will be as determined by FHFA.
(7)
Posting of an underserved market section in a Plan.
As soon as practicable after FHFA issues a Non-Objection to an underserved market in a Plan, that section of the Plan will be posted on the Enterprise's and FHFA's respective Web sites, with any confidential and proprietary data and information omitted.
(h)
Modification of a Plan.
At any time after implementation of a Plan, an Enterprise may request to modify its Plan during the three-year term, subject to FHFA Non-Objection of the proposed modifications. FHFA may also require an Enterprise to modify its Plan during the three-year term. FHFA and the Enterprise may seek public input on proposed modifications to a Plan if FHFA determines that public input would assist its consideration of the proposed modifications. If a Plan is modified, the modified Plan, with any confidential and proprietary information and data omitted, will be posted on the Enterprise's and FHFA's respective Web sites.
§ 1282.33
Manufactured housing market.
(a)
Duty in general.
Each Enterprise must develop loan products and flexible underwriting guidelines to facilitate a secondary market for eligible mortgages on manufactured homes for very low-, low-, and moderate-income families. Enterprise activities under this section must serve each such income group in the year for which the Enterprise is evaluated and rated.
(b)
Eligible activities.
Enterprise activities eligible to be included in an Underserved Markets Plan for the manufactured housing market are activities that facilitate a secondary market for mortgages on residential properties for very low-, low-, or moderate-income families consisting of manufactured homes titled as real property or personal property; and manufactured housing communities.
(c)
Regulatory Activities.
Enterprise activities related to the following are eligible to receive duty to serve credit under the manufactured housing market:
(1)
Manufactured homes titled as real property.
Mortgages on manufactured homes titled as real property;
(2)
Chattel.
Loans on manufactured homes titled as personal property, including both pilot and ongoing initiatives;
(3)
Manufactured housing communities owned by a governmental entity, nonprofit organization, or residents.
Mortgages on manufactured housing communities that are owned by a governmental unit or instrumentality, a nonprofit organization, or residents; and
(4)
Manufactured housing communities with certain pad lease protections.
Manufactured housing communities with pad leases that have the following pad lease protections at a minimum, or manufactured housing communities that are subject to state or local laws requiring pad lease protections that equal or exceed the following pad lease protections:
(i) One-year renewable lease term unless there is good cause for nonrenewal;
(ii) Thirty-day written notice of rent increases;
(iii) Five-day grace period for rent payments and right to cure defaults on rent payments;
(iv) Tenant has the right to sell the manufactured home without having to first relocate it out of the community;
(v) Tenant has the right to sublease or assign the pad lease for the unexpired term to the new buyer of the tenant's manufactured home without any unreasonable restraint;
(vi) Tenant has the right to post “For Sale” signs;
(vii) Tenant has the right to sell the manufactured home in place within a reasonable time period after eviction by the manufactured housing community owner; and
(viii) Tenant has the right to receive at least 60 days advance notice of a planned sale or closure of the manufactured housing community.
(d)
Additional Activities.
An Enterprise may include in its Plan other activities to serve very low-, low-, or moderate-income families in the manufactured housing market consistent with paragraph (b) of this section, subject to FHFA determination of whether the Additional Activity is eligible to receive duty to serve credit.
§ 1282.34
Affordable housing preservation market.
(a)
Duty in general.
Each Enterprise must develop loan products and flexible underwriting guidelines to facilitate a secondary market to preserve housing affordable to very low-, low-, and moderate-income families under eligible housing programs or activities. Enterprise activities under this section must serve each such income group in the year for which the Enterprise is evaluated and rated.
(b)
Eligible activities.
Enterprise activities eligible to be included in an Underserved Markets Plan for the affordable housing preservation market are activities that facilitate a secondary market for mortgages on residential properties for very low-, low-, or moderate-income families consisting of affordable rental housing preservation and affordable homeownership preservation.
(c)
Statutory Activities.
Enterprise activities related to housing projects under the following programs in the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4565(a)(1)(B)) are eligible to receive duty to serve credit under the affordable housing preservation market:
(1)
Section 8.
The project-based and tenant-based rental assistance housing programs under section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937, 42 U.S.C. 1437f;
(2)
Section 236.
The rental and cooperative housing program for lower income families under section 236 of the National Housing Act, 12 U.S.C. 1715z-1;
(3)
Section 221(d)(4).
The housing program for moderate-income and displaced families under section 221(d)(4) of the National Housing Act, 12 U.S.C. 1715l;
(4)
Section 202.
The supportive housing program for the elderly under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959, 12 U.S.C. 1701q;
(5)
Section 811.
The supportive housing program for persons with disabilities under section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. 8013;
(6)
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance.
Permanent supportive housing projects subsidized under Title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. 11361,
et seq.;
(7)
Section 515.
The rural rental housing program under section 515 of the Housing Act of 1949, 42 U.S.C. 1485;
(8)
Low-income housing tax credits.
Low-income housing tax credits under section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 26 U.S.C. 42; and
(9)
Other comparable state or local affordable housing programs.
Other comparable affordable housing programs administered by a state or local government that preserve housing affordable to very low-, low-, and moderate-income families. An Enterprise may include in its Plan statutory programs pursuant to this paragraph (c)(9), subject to FHFA determination that the program is comparable to one of the statutory programs in this paragraph (c) in the way it provides subsidy and preserves affordable housing for the income-eligible households.
(d)
Regulatory Activities.
Enterprise activities related to the following are eligible to receive duty to serve credit under the affordable housing preservation market:
(1)
Financing of small multifamily rental properties.
Financing of small multifamily rental properties by a community development financial institution, insured depository institution, or federally insured credit union, where the entity's total assets are $10 billion or less;
(2)
Energy or water efficiency improvements on multifamily rental properties.
Energy or water efficiency improvements on multifamily rental properties provided there are projections made based on credible and generally accepted standards that the improvements financed by the loan will reduce energy or water consumption by the tenant or the property by at least 15 percent, and the energy or water savings generated over an improvement's expected life will exceed the cost of installation;
(3)
Energy or water efficiency improvements on single-family, first lien properties.
Energy or water efficiency improvements on single-family, first-lien properties, provided there are projections made based on credible and generally accepted standards that the improvements financed by the loan will reduce energy or water consumption by the homeowner, the tenant, or the property by at least 15 percent, and the
utility savings generated over an improvement's expected life will exceed the cost of installation;
(4)
Shared equity programs for affordable homeownership preservation.
—(i) Affordable homeownership preservation through one of the following shared equity homeownership programs:
(A) Resale restriction programs administered by community land trusts, other nonprofit organizations, or state or local governments or instrumentalities; or
(B) Shared appreciation loan programs administered by community land trusts, other nonprofit organizations, or state or local governments or instrumentalities that may or may not partner with a for-profit institution to invest in, originate, sell, or service shared appreciation loans.
(ii) A program in paragraph (d)(4)(i) must:
(A) Provide homeownership opportunities to very low-, low-, or moderate-income households;
(B) Utilize a ground lease, deed restriction, subordinate loan, or similar legal mechanism that includes provisions stating that the program will keep the home affordable for subsequent very low-, low-, or moderate-income families, the affordability term is at least 30 years after recordation, a resale formula applies that limits the homeowner's proceeds upon resale, and the program administrator or its assignee has a preemptive option to purchase the homeownership unit from the homeowner at resale; and
(C) Support homebuyers and homeowners to promote sustainable homeownership, including reviewing and pre-approving refinances and home equity lines of credit.
(5)
HUD Choice Neighborhoods Initiative.
The HUD Choice Neighborhoods Initiative, as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1437v;
(6)
HUD Rental Assistance Demonstration program.
The HUD Rental Assistance Demonstration program, as authorized by 42 U.S.C.1437f note; and
(7)
Purchase or rehabilitation of certain distressed properties.
Lending programs for the purchase or rehabilitation by very low-, low-, or moderate-income families, or by nonprofit organizations or local or tribal governments serving such families, of homes eligible for short sale, homes eligible for foreclosure sale, or properties that a lender acquires as a result of foreclosure.
(e)
Additional Activities.
An Enterprise may include in its Plan other activities to serve very low-, low-, or moderate-income families in the affordable housing preservation market consistent with paragraph (b) of this section, subject to FHFA determination of whether the activities are eligible to receive duty to serve credit.
§ 1282.35
Rural markets.
(a)
Duty in general.
Each Enterprise must develop loan products and flexible underwriting guidelines to facilitate a secondary market for eligible mortgages on housing for very low-, low-, and moderate-income families in rural areas. Enterprise activities under this section must serve each such income group in the year for which the Enterprise is evaluated and rated.
(b)
Eligible activities.
Enterprise activities eligible to be included in an Underserved Markets Plan for the rural market are activities that facilitate a secondary market for mortgages on residential properties for very low-,low-, or moderate-income families in rural areas.
(c)
Regulatory Activities.
Enterprise activities related to the following are eligible to receive duty to serve credit under the rural market:
(1)
High-needs rural regions.
Housing in high-needs rural regions;
(2)
High-needs rural populations.
Housing for high-needs rural populations;
(3)
Financing by small financial institutions of rural housing.
Financing by a small financial institution of housing in a rural area; and
(4)
Small multifamily rental properties in rural areas.
Small multifamily rental properties that are located in a rural area.
(d)
Additional Activities.
An Enterprise may include in its Plan other activities to serve very low-, low-, or moderate-income families in rural areas consistent with paragraph (b) of this section, subject to FHFA determination of whether the activities are eligible to receive duty to serve credit.
§ 1282.36
Evaluations, ratings, and Evaluation Guidance.
(a)
Evaluation of compliance.
In determining whether an Enterprise has complied with the duty to serve each underserved market, FHFA will annually evaluate and rate the Enterprise's duty to serve performance based on the Enterprise's implementation of its Underserved Markets Plan during the relevant evaluation year. FHFA's evaluation will be in accordance with separate, FHFA-prepared Evaluation Guidance as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Evaluation areas.
As provided in § 1282.32(f), an Enterprise must specify in its Plan the evaluation area under which each Plan objective will be evaluated. FHFA will evaluate an Enterprise's performance of each of its Plan objectives under one of the following four evaluation areas, as designated by the Enterprise in its Plan:
(1)
Outreach.
The extent of the Enterprise's outreach to qualified loan sellers and other market participants in each underserved market;
(2)
Loan product.
The Enterprise's development of loan products, more flexible underwriting guidelines, and other innovative approaches to providing financing in each underserved market;
(3)
Loan purchase.
The volume of loan purchases by the Enterprise in each underserved market relative to the market opportunities available to the Enterprise; and
(4)
Investments and grants.
The amount of the Enterprise's investments and grants in projects that assist in meeting the needs of each underserved market.
(c)
Evaluation process.
At the end of each evaluation year, FHFA will evaluate each Enterprise's performance under its Plan based on quantitative and qualitative assessments of the Enterprise's accomplishment of the objectives for the activities under each underserved market in its Plan. Following the quantitative and qualitative assessments, FHFA may provide extra credit for extra credit-eligible residential economic diversity activities in an underserved market in a Plan, and for other extra credit-eligible activities in an underserved market in a Plan as may be designated by FHFA in the Evaluation Guidance.
(1)
Quantitative assessment.
FHFA will conduct a quantitative assessment which will evaluate the level of an Enterprise's accomplishment of each objective for each activity in an underserved market in its Plan, based on the level of accomplishment needed for the objectives in order to receive a passing rating for compliance with the Duty to Serve an underserved market in a Plan, as established by FHFA in the Evaluation Guidance. At the conclusion of the quantitative assessment for an underserved market in a Plan, FHFA will determine whether an Enterprise has passed or failed the required level of accomplishment.
(2)
Qualitative assessment.
FHFA will conduct a qualitative assessment which will evaluate the Enterprise's accomplishment of each objective for each activity in an underserved market in its Plan, based on the method and criteria established by FHFA in the Evaluation Guidance, such as how skillfully an objective was implemented, the impact of the objective, and such other criteria as FHFA may set forth in the Evaluation Guidance.
(3)
Extra credit-eligible activities.
FHFA may provide extra credit for extra credit-eligible residential economic diversity activities included in an underserved market in a Plan, and for other extra credit-eligible activities included in an underserved market in a Plan, where such other activities are designated by FHFA in the Evaluation Guidance. FHFA will conduct its assessment of an Enterprise's accomplishment of activities that are eligible for extra credit based on the method and criteria established by FHFA in the Evaluation Guidance, such as how skillfully an objective was implemented, the impact of the objective, and such other criteria as FHFA may set forth in the Evaluation Guidance.
(4)
Ratings.
—(i)
Assignment of ratings.
Based on the quantitative, qualitative and extra credit assessments, FHFA will assign a rating of Exceeds, High Satisfactory, Low Satisfactory, Minimally Passing, or Fails to the Enterprise's performance for each underserved market in its Plan. A rating of
Exceeds, High Satisfactory, Low Satisfactory, or Minimally Passing will constitute compliance by the Enterprise with the duty to serve that underserved market. A rating of Fails will constitute noncompliance by the Enterprise with the duty to serve that underserved market.
(ii)
Ongoing Assessment of Evaluation and Rating Process.
FHFA will make such determinations as appropriate based on evaluation of the program's parameters and operation, pursuant to the Evaluation Guidance, regarding implementation of the evaluation and rating process.
(d)
Evaluation Guidance.
—(1)
Three-year term.
FHFA will prepare Evaluation Guidance for use by both Enterprises for a three-year term.
(2)
Contents.
The Evaluation Guidance will include the information required under this subpart, as well as additional guidance on Enterprise Plans, how the quantitative and qualitative assessments will be conducted, the role of extra credit, how final ratings will be determined, and other matters as may be appropriate.
(3)
Timelines for Evaluation Guidance.
—(i)
For the first Plan.
—(A) FHFA will provide to the Enterprises the proposed Evaluation Guidance for the first Plan within 30 days after the posting of this subpart on FHFA's Web site. FHFA will post the proposed Evaluation Guidance on FHFA's Web site as soon as practicable after providing it to the Enterprises.
(B) The proposed Evaluation Guidance will be available for public input for a period of 120 days following its posting on FHFA's Web site.
(C) FHFA will provide the Evaluation Guidance to the Enterprises no later than the time FHFA provides comments to the Enterprises on their proposed Plans.
(ii)
For subsequent Plans.
FHFA will provide timelines for the Evaluation Guidance for subsequent Plans after the first Plan, including public input periods, 300 days before the termination date of the Plan in effect, or a later date if additional time is necessary.
(4)
Posting of Evaluation Guidance.
The final Evaluation Guidance will be posted on the Enterprises' and FHFA's respective Web sites as soon as practicable after the Evaluation Guidance is finalized.
(5)
Modification of Evaluation Guidance.
From time to time, FHFA may modify the Evaluation Guidance prior to or during the Evaluation Guidance's three-year term. FHFA may seek public input on proposed modifications to the Evaluation Guidance if FHFA determines that public input would assist its consideration of the proposed modifications. Modified Evaluation Guidance will be effective on January 1 of the year after the modified Evaluation Guidance is posted. FHFA will post the modified Evaluation Guidance on FHFA's Web site as soon as practicable after modified.
§ 1282.37
General requirements for credit.
(a)
General.
FHFA will determine whether an activity included in an Enterprise's Underserved Markets Plan will receive duty to serve credit or extra credit under an underserved market in the Plan. In this determination, FHFA will consider whether the activity facilitates a secondary market for financing mortgages: On manufactured homes for very low-, low-, and moderate-income families; to preserve housing affordable to very low-, low-, and moderate-income families; and on housing for very low-, low-, and moderate-income families in rural areas. If FHFA determines that an activity will receive duty to serve credit or extra credit under an underserved market in the Plan, the activity will receive such credit under the relevant evaluation area for each underserved market it serves.
(b)
No credit under any evaluation area.
Enterprise activities related to the following are not eligible to receive duty to serve credit under any evaluation area under an underserved market, even if the activity otherwise would receive credit under any other section of this subpart, except as provided in this section:
(1) Contributions to the Housing Trust Fund (12 U.S.C. 4568) and the Capital Magnet Fund (12 U.S.C. 4569), and mortgage purchases funded with such grant amounts;
(2) HOEPA mortgages;
(3) Subordinate liens on multifamily properties, except for subordinate liens originated for energy or water efficiency improvements on multifamily rental properties that meet the requirements in § 1282.34(d)(2);
(4) Subordinate liens on single-family properties, except for shared appreciation loans that satisfy all of the requirements in § 1282.34(d)(4) of this part;
(5) Low-Income Housing Tax Credit equity investments in a property, except where the property is located in a rural area;
(6) Permanent construction take-out loans and Additional Activities under the affordable housing preservation market, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(7) Any combination of factors in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section.
(c)
Credit for certain permanent construction take-out loans and Additional Activities under the affordable housing preservation market.
Enterprise activities related to permanent construction take-out loans and Additional Activities under the affordable housing preservation market are eligible for duty to serve credit, provided the following requirements are met, as applicable:
(1)
Permanent construction take-out loans.
—(i) The permanent construction take-out loans preserve existing subsidies on affordable housing with regulatory periods of required affordability that are at least as restrictive as the longest affordability restriction applicable to the subsidy or subsidies being preserved; or
(ii) The permanent construction take-out loans are for housing developed under state or local inclusionary zoning, real estate tax abatement, or loan programs, where the property owner has agreed to restrict a portion of the units for occupancy by very low-, low-, or moderate-income families, and to restrict the rents that can be charged for those units at affordable rents to those populations, or where the property is developed for a shared equity program that meets the requirements under § 1282.34(d)(4), and where there is a regulatory agreement, recorded use restriction, or deed restriction in place that maintains affordability for the term defined by the state or local program.
(2)
Additional Activities.
Additional Activities that either:
(i) Involve preserving existing subsidy where the term of affordability required for the subsidy is followed, or where there is a deed restriction for affordability for the life of the loan; or
(ii) Involve preserving the affordability of properties in conjunction with state or local inclusionary zoning, real estate tax abatement, or loan programs, where a regulatory agreement, recorded use restriction, or deed restriction maintains affordability of a portion of the property's units for the term defined by the state or local program.
(d)
No credit under loan purchase evaluation area.
The following activities are not eligible to receive duty to serve credit under the loan purchase evaluation area, even if the activity otherwise would receive duty to serve credit under § 1282.38:
(1) Purchases of mortgages to the extent they finance any dwelling units that are secondary residences;
(2) Single-family refinancing mortgages that result from conversion of balloon notes to fully amortizing notes, if the Enterprise already owns or has an interest in the balloon note at the time conversion occurs;
(3) Purchases of mortgages or interests in mortgages that previously received credit under any underserved market within the five years immediately preceding the current performance year;
(4) Purchases of mortgages where the property or any units within the property have not been approved for occupancy;
(5) Any interests in mortgages that FHFA determines will not be treated as interests in mortgages;
(6) Purchases of state and local government housing bonds except as provided in § 1282.39(h); and
(7) Any combination of factors in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(6) of this section.
(e)
FHFA review of activities or objectives.
FHFA may determine whether and how any activity or objective will receive duty to serve credit under an
underserved market in a Plan, including treatment of missing data. FHFA will notify each Enterprise in writing of any determination regarding the treatment of any activity or objective. FHFA will make any such determinations available to the public on FHFA's Web site.
(f)
The year in which an activity or objective will receive credit.
An activity or objective that FHFA determines will receive duty to serve credit under an underserved market in a Plan will receive such credit in the year in which the activity or objective is completed. FHFA may determine that credit is appropriate for an activity or objective in which an Enterprise engages, but does not complete, in a particular year, except that activities or objectives under the loan purchase evaluation area will receive credit in the year in which the Enterprise purchased the mortgage.
(g)
Credit under one evaluation area.
An activity or objective will receive duty to serve credit under only one evaluation area in a particular underserved market.
(h)
Credit under multiple underserved markets.
An activity or objective, including financing of dwelling units by an Enterprise's mortgage purchase, will receive duty to serve credit under each underserved market for which the activity or objective qualifies in that year.
§ 1282.38
General requirements for loan purchases.
(a)
General.
This section applies to Enterprise mortgage purchases that may receive duty to serve credit under the loan purchase evaluation area for a particular underserved market in a Plan. Only dwelling units securing a mortgage purchased by the Enterprise in that year and not specifically excluded under § 1282.37(b) and (d) may receive credit.
(b)
Counting dwelling units.
Performance under the loan purchase evaluation area will be measured by counting dwelling units affordable to very low-, low-, and moderate-income families.
(c)
Credit for owner-occupied units.
—(1) Mortgage purchases financing owner-occupied single-family properties will be evaluated based on the income of the mortgagor(s) and the area median income at the time the mortgage was originated. To determine whether mortgages may receive duty to serve credit under a particular family income level,
i.e.,
very low-, low-, or moderate-income, the income of the mortgagor(s) is compared to the median income for the area at the time the mortgage was originated, using the appropriate percentage factor provided under § 1282.17.
(2) Mortgage purchases financing owner-occupied single-family properties for which the income of the mortgagor(s) is not available will not receive duty to serve credit under the loan purchase evaluation area.
(d)
Credit for rental units.
—(1)
Use of rent.
For Enterprise mortgage purchases financing single-family rental units and multifamily rental units, affordability is determined based on rent and whether the rent is affordable to the income groups targeted by the duty to serve. A rent is affordable if the rent does not exceed the maximum levels as provided in § 1282.19.
(2)
Affordability of rents based on housing program requirements.
Where a multifamily property is subject to an affordability restriction under a housing program that establishes the maximum permitted income level for a tenant or a prospective tenant or the maximum permitted rent, the affordability of units in the property may be determined based on the maximum permitted income level or maximum permitted rent established under such housing program for those units. If using income, the maximum income level must be no greater than the maximum income level for each income group targeted by the duty to serve, adjusted for family or unit size as provided in § 1282.17 or § 1282.18, as appropriate. If using rent, the maximum rent level must be no greater than the maximum rent level for each income group targeted by the duty to serve, adjusted for unit size as provided in § 1282.19.
(3)
Unoccupied units.
Anticipated rent for unoccupied units may be the market rent for similar units in the neighborhood as determined by the lender or appraiser for underwriting purposes. A unit in a multifamily property that is unoccupied because it is being used as
a model unit or rental office may receive duty to serve credit only if the Enterprise determines that the number of such units is reasonable and minimal considering the size of the multifamily property.
(4)
Timeliness of information.
In evaluating affordability for single-family rental properties, an Enterprise must use tenant income and area median income available at the time the mortgage was originated. For multifamily rental properties, the Enterprise must use tenant income and area median income available at the time the mortgage was acquired.
(e)
Missing data or information for rental units.
—(1) When calculating unit affordability, rental units for which bedroom data are missing will be considered efficiencies.
(2) When an Enterprise lacks sufficient information to determine whether a rental unit in a single-family or multifamily property securing a mortgage purchased by the Enterprise receives duty to serve credit under the loan purchase evaluation area because rental data are not available, the Enterprise's performance with respect to such unit may be evaluated using estimated affordability information, except that an Enterprise may not estimate affordability of rental units for purposes of receiving extra credit for residential economic diversity activities. The estimated affordability information is calculated by multiplying the number of rental units with missing affordability information in properties securing the mortgages purchased by the Enterprise in each census tract by the percentage of all moderate-income rental dwelling units in the respective tracts, as determined by FHFA.
(f)
Affordability of manufactured housing communities.
For an Enterprise purchase of a blanket loan on a manufactured housing community, unless otherwise determined by FHFA, the affordability of the homes in the community shall be determined using one of the methodologies in paragraphs (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this section, as applicable, except that for purposes of determining extra credit for residential economic diversity activities or objectives, the methodology in paragraph (f)(2) of this section may not be used.
(1)
Methodology for government-, nonprofit- or resident-owned manufactured housing communities.
For a manufactured housing community owned by a government unit or instrumentality, a nonprofit organization, or the residents, if laws or regulations governing the affordability of the community, or the community's or ownership entity's founding, chartering, governing, or financing documents, require that a certain number or percentage of the community's homes be affordable consistent with paragraph (d)(1) of this section, then any homes subject to such affordability restriction are treated as affordable.
(2)
Census tract methodology for any type of manufactured housing community.
For any type of manufactured housing community, except for purposes of determining extra credit for residential economic diversity activities or objectives, the affordability of the homes in the community is determined as follows:
(i) If the median income of the census tract in which the manufactured housing community is located is less than or equal to the area median income, then all homes in the community are treated as affordable;
(ii) If the median income of the census tract in which the manufactured housing community is located exceeds the area median income, then the number of homes that are treated as affordable is determined by dividing the area median income by the median income of the census tract in which the community is located and multiplying the resulting ratio by the total number of homes in the community.
(g)
Application of median income.
—(1) To determine an area's median income under §§ 1282.17 through 1282.19 and the definitions in § 1282.1, the area is:
(i) The metropolitan area, if the property which is the subject of the mortgage is in a metropolitan area; and
(ii) In all other areas, the county in which the property is located, except that where the State non-metropolitan median income is higher than the county's median income, the area is the State non-metropolitan area.
(2) When an Enterprise cannot precisely determine whether a mortgage is on dwelling unit(s) located in one area, the Enterprise must determine the median income for the split area in the manner prescribed by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council for reporting under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (12 U.S.C. 2801
et seq.
), if the Enterprise can determine that the mortgage is on dwelling unit(s) located in:
(i) A census tract; or
(ii) A census place code.
(h)
Newly available data.
When an Enterprise uses data to determine whether a dwelling unit may receive duty to serve credit under the loan purchase evaluation area and new data is released after the start of a calendar quarter, the Enterprise need not use the new data until the start of the following quarter.
§ 1282.39
Special requirements for loan purchases.
(a)
General.
Subject to FHFA's determination of whether an activity or objective will receive duty to serve credit under a particular underserved market, the activities or objectives identified in this section will be treated as mortgage purchases as described and receive credit under the loan purchase evaluation area. An activity or objective that is covered by more than one paragraph below must satisfy the requirements of each such paragraph.
(b)
Credit enhancements.
—(1) Dwelling units financed under a credit enhancement entered into by an Enterprise will be treated as mortgage purchases only when:
(i) The Enterprise provides a specific contractual obligation to ensure timely payment of amounts due under a mortgage or mortgages financed by the issuance of housing bonds (such bonds may be issued by any entity, including a State or local housing finance agency); and
(ii) The Enterprise assumes a credit risk in the transaction substantially equivalent to the risk that would have been assumed by the Enterprise if it had securitized the mortgages financed by such bonds.
(2) When an Enterprise provides a specific contractual obligation to ensure timely payment of amounts due under any mortgage originally insured by a public purpose mortgage insurance entity or fund, the Enterprise may, on a case-by-case basis, seek approval from the Director for such transactions to receive credit under the loan purchase evaluation area for a particular underserved market.
(c)
Risk-sharing.
Mortgages purchased under risk-sharing arrangements between an Enterprise and any federal agency under which the Enterprise is responsible for a substantial amount of the risk will be treated as mortgage purchases.
(d)
Participations.
Participations purchased by an Enterprise will be treated as mortgage purchases only when the Enterprise's participation in the mortgage is 50 percent or more.
(e)
Cooperative housing and condominiums.
—(1) The purchase of a mortgage on a cooperative housing unit (“a share loan”) or a mortgage on a condominium unit will be treated as a mortgage purchase. Such a purchase will receive duty to serve credit in the same manner as a mortgage purchase of single-family owner-occupied units,
i.e.,
affordability is based on the income of the mortgagor(s).
(2) The purchase of a blanket mortgage on a cooperative building or a mortgage on a condominium project will be treated as a mortgage purchase. The purchase of a blanket mortgage on a cooperative building will receive duty to serve credit in the same manner as a mortgage purchase of a multifamily rental property, except that affordability must be determined based solely on the comparable market rents used in underwriting the blanket loan. If the underwriting rents are not available, the loan will not be treated as a mortgage purchase. The purchase of a mortgage on a condominium project will receive duty to serve credit in the same manner as a mortgage purchase of a multifamily rental property.
(3) Where an Enterprise purchases both a blanket mortgage on a cooperative building and share loans for units in the same building, both the mortgage on the cooperative building and the share loans will be treated as mortgage purchases. Where an Enterprise
purchases both a mortgage on a condominium project and mortgages on individual dwelling units in the same project, both the mortgage on the condominium project and the mortgages on individual dwelling units will be treated as mortgage purchases.
(f)
Seasoned mortgages.
An Enterprise's purchase of a seasoned mortgage will be treated as a mortgage purchase.
(g)
Purchase of refinancing mortgages.
The purchase of a refinancing mortgage by an Enterprise will be treated as a mortgage purchase only if the refinancing is an arms-length transaction that is borrower-driven.
(h)
Mortgage revenue bonds.
The purchase or guarantee by an Enterprise of a mortgage revenue bond issued by a state or local housing finance agency will be treated as a purchase of the underlying mortgages only to the extent the Enterprise has sufficient information to determine whether the underlying mortgages or mortgage-backed securities serve the income groups targeted by the duty to serve.
(i)
Seller dissolution option.
—(1) Mortgages acquired through transactions involving seller dissolution options will be treated as mortgage purchases only when:
(i) The terms of the transaction provide for a lockout period that prohibits the exercise of the dissolution option for at least one year from the date on which the transaction was entered into by the Enterprise and the seller of the mortgages; and
(ii) The transaction is not dissolved during the one-year minimum lockout period.
(2) FHFA may grant an exception to the one-year minimum lockout period described in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) and (i)(1)(ii) of this section, in response to a written request from an Enterprise, if FHFA determines that the transaction furthers the purposes of the Enterprise's Charter Act and the Safety and Soundness Act.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, “seller dissolution option” means an option for a seller of mortgages to the Enterprises to dissolve or otherwise cancel a mortgage purchase agreement or loan sale.
§ 1282.40
Failure to comply.
If the Director determines that an Enterprise has not complied with, or there is a substantial probability that an Enterprise will not comply with, the duty to serve a particular underserved market in a given year and the Director determines that such compliance is or was feasible, the Director will follow the procedures in 12 U.S.C. 4566(b).
§ 1282.41
Housing plans.
(a)
General.
If the Director determines that an Enterprise did not comply with, or there is a substantial probability that an Enterprise will not comply with, the duty to serve a particular underserved market in a given year, the Director may require the Enterprise to submit a housing plan for approval by the Director.
(b)
Nature of housing plan.
If the Director requires a housing plan, the housing plan must:
(1) Be feasible;
(2) Be sufficiently specific to enable the Director to monitor compliance periodically;
(3) Describe the specific actions that the Enterprise will take:
(i) To comply with the duty to serve a particular underserved market for the next calendar year; or
(ii) To make such improvements and changes in its operations as are reasonable in the remainder of the year, if the Director determines that there is a substantial probability that the Enterprise will fail to comply with the duty to serve a particular underserved market in such year; and
(4) Address any additional matters relevant to the housing plan as required, in writing, by the Director.
(c)
Deadline for submission.
The Enterprise must submit the housing plan to the Director within 45 days after issuance of a notice requiring the Enterprise to submit a housing plan. The Director may extend the deadline for submission of a housing plan, in writing and for a time certain, to the extent the Director determines an extension is necessary.
(d)
Review of housing plans.
The Director will review and approve or disapprove housing plans in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4566(c)(4) and (c)(5).
(e)
Resubmission.
If the Director disapproves an initial housing plan submitted by an Enterprise, the Enterprise must submit an amended housing plan acceptable to the Director not later than 15 days after the Director's disapproval of the initial housing plan. The Director may extend the deadline if the Director determines that an extension is in the public interest. If the amended housing plan is not acceptable to the Director, the Director may afford the Enterprise 15 days to submit a new housing plan.

# Subpart D—Reporting Requirements
§ 1282.61
General.
This subpart establishes data submission and reporting requirements to carry out the requirements of the Enterprises' Charter Acts and the Safety and Soundness Act.
§ 1282.62
Mortgage reports.
(a)
Loan-level data elements.
To implement the data collection and submission requirements for mortgage data, and to assist the Director in monitoring the Enterprises' housing goal activities, each Enterprise shall collect and compile computerized loan-level data on each mortgage purchased in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 1456(e) and 1723a(m). The Director may, from time to time, issue a list entitled “Required Loan-level Data Elements” specifying the loan-level data elements to be collected and maintained by the Enterprises and provided to the Director. The Director may revise the list by written notice to the Enterprises.
(b)
Quarterly Mortgage Reports.
Each Enterprise shall submit to the Director a quarterly Mortgage Report. The fourth quarter Mortgage Report shall serve as the Annual Mortgage Report and shall be designated as such. Each Mortgage Report shall include:
(1) Aggregations of the loan-level mortgage data compiled by the Enterprise under paragraph (a) of this section for year-to-date mortgage purchases, in the format specified in writing by the Director;
(2) Year-to-date dollar volume, number of units, and number of mortgages on owner-occupied and rental properties purchased by the Enterprise that do, and do not, qualify under each housing goal as set forth in this part; and
(3) Year-to-date computerized loan-level data consisting of the data elements required under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Timing of Reports.
The Enterprises shall submit the Mortgage Report for each of the first 3 quarters of each year within 60 days of the end of the quarter. Each Enterprise shall submit its Annual Mortgage Report within 75 days after the end of the calendar year.
(d)
Revisions to Reports.
At any time before submission of its Annual Mortgage Report, an Enterprise may revise any of its quarterly reports for that year.
(e)
Format.
The Enterprises shall submit to the Director computerized loan-level data with the Mortgage Report, in the format specified in writing by the Director.
§ 1282.63
Annual Housing Activities Report.
To comply with the requirements in sections 309(n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act and 307(f) of the Freddie Mac Act and assist the Director in preparing the Director's Annual Report to Congress, each Enterprise shall submit to the Director an AHAR including the information listed in those sections of the Charter Acts. Each Enterprise shall submit such report within 75 days after the end of each calendar year, to the Director, the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate. Each Enterprise shall make its AHAR available to the public online and at its principal and regional offices. Before making any such report available to the public, the Enterprise may exclude from the report any information that the Director has deemed proprietary.
§ 1282.64
Periodic reports.
Each Enterprise shall provide to the Director such reports, information and data as the Director may request from time to time.
§ 1282.65
Enterprise data integrity.
(a)
Certification.
(1) The senior officer of each Enterprise who is responsible for submitting the fourth quarter Annual Mortgage Report and the AHAR under sections 309(m) and (n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act or sections 307(e) and (f) of the Freddie Mac Act, as applicable, or for submitting any other report(s), data or information for which certification is requested in writing by the Director, shall certify such report(s), data or information.
(2) The certification shall state as follows: “To the best of my knowledge and belief, the information provided herein is true, correct and complete.”
(b)
Adjustment to correct errors, omissions or discrepancies in AHAR data.
FHFA shall determine the official housing goal performance figure for each Enterprise under the housing goals on an annual basis. FHFA may resolve any error, omission or discrepancy by adjusting the Enterprise's official housing goal performance figure. If the Director determines that the year-end data reported by an Enterprise for a year preceding the latest year for which data on housing goals performance was reported to FHFA contained a material error, omission or discrepancy, the Director may increase the corresponding housing goal for the current year by the number of mortgages (or dwelling units) that the Director determines were overstated in the prior year's goal performance.
§ 1282.66
Enterprise reports on duty to serve.
(a)
First and third quarter reports.
Each Enterprise must submit to FHFA a first and third quarter report on its activities and objectives under each underserved market in its Underserved Markets Plan for the loan purchase evaluation area. The report must include detailed year-to-date information on the Enterprise's progress towards meeting the activities and objectives in its Plan. The Enterprise must submit the first and third quarter reports to FHFA within 60 days of the end of the respective quarter.
(b)
Second quarter report.
Each Enterprise must submit to FHFA a second quarter report on all of the activities and objectives under each underserved market in its Underserved Markets Plan. The report must include detailed year-to-date information on the Enterprise's progress towards meeting the activities and objectives under each underserved market in its Plan, and contain narrative and summary statistical information for the Plan objectives, supported by appropriate transaction level detail. The Enterprise must submit the second quarter report to FHFA within 60 days of the end of the second quarter.
(c)
Annual report.
To comply with the requirements in sections 309(n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act and 307(f) of the Freddie Mac Act and for purposes of FHFA's Annual Housing Report to Congress, each Enterprise must submit to FHFA an annual report on all of the activities and objectives under each underserved market in its Underserved Markets Plan no later than 75 days after the end of each calendar year. For each underserved market, the Enterprise's annual report must include, at a minimum: A description of the Enterprise's market opportunities for loan purchases during the evaluation year to the extent data is available; the volume of qualifying loans purchased by the Enterprise during the evaluation year; a comparison of the Enterprise's loan purchases with its loan purchases in prior years; a comparison of market opportunities with the size of the relevant markets in the past, to the extent data is available; and narrative and summary statistical information for the Plan objectives, supported by appropriate transaction level data.
(d)
Public disclosure of information from reports.
FHFA will make public certain information from the first, second, and third quarter reports at a reasonable time after the end of the calendar year for which they apply, with any confidential and proprietary information and data omitted. FHFA will make public certain information from the annual reports at a reasonable time after receiving them from the Enterprises, with any confidential and proprietary information and data omitted. In the third year of the Underserved Markets Plans, FHFA will make public certain narrative information from the year's second quarter report, excluding
data under the loan purchase evaluation area and any confidential and proprietary information and data, at a reasonable time after receiving it within the calendar year.
[81 FR 96300, Dec. 29, 2016]
Pt. 1290

# PART 1290—COMMUNITY SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS
Sec.
1290.1
Definitions.
1290.2
Community support requirements.
1290.3
Community support standards.
1290.4
FHFA review and decision on Community Support Statements.
1290.5
Probation or restriction on member access to long-term Bank advances.
1290.6
Bank community support programs.
1290.7
Bank Advisory Council Annual Reports.
1290.8
Compliance dates.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1430(g).

# Source:
80 FR 30342, May 28, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1290.1
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Advisory Council
means the Advisory Council each Bank is required to establish pursuant to section 10(j)(11) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(11)) and part 1291 of this chapter.
CDFI Fund
means the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund established under section 104(a) of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4703(a)).
Community development financial institution or CDFI
means an institution that is certified as a community development financial institution by the CDFI Fund under the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
).
CRA
means the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (12 U.S.C. 2901,
et seq.
).
CRA evaluation
means the public disclosure portion of the CRA performance evaluation provided by a member's appropriate Federal banking agency.
Displaced homemaker
means an adult who has not worked full-time, full-year in the labor force for a number of years, and during that period, worked primarily without remuneration to care for a home and family, and currently is unemployed or underemployed and is experiencing difficulty in obtaining or upgrading employment.
First-time homebuyer
means:
(1) An individual and his or her spouse, if any, who has had no present ownership interest in a principal residence during the three-year period prior to purchase of a principal residence.
(2) A displaced homemaker who, except for owning a residence with his or her spouse or residing in a residence owned by his or her spouse, meets the requirements of paragraph (1) of this definition.
(3) A single parent who, except for owning a residence with his or her spouse or residing in a residence owned by his or her spouse, meets the requirements of paragraph (1) of this definition.
Long-term advance
means an advance with a term to maturity greater than one year.
Restriction on access to long-term advances
means a member may not borrow long-term advances or renew any maturing advance for a term to maturity greater than one year.
Single parent
means an individual who is unmarried or legally separated from a spouse and has custody or joint custody of one or more minor children or is pregnant.
Targeted community lending
means providing financing for economic development projects for targeted beneficiaries.
[80 FR 30342, May 28, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 76300, Nov. 2, 2016]
§ 1290.2
Community support requirements.
(a)
Bank notice to members.
By a date designated by FHFA notice pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, each Bank must provide written notice to each of its members subject to community support review that each such member must submit to FHFA a completed Community Support Statement in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. Unless instructed otherwise by FHFA, the Bank must provide to each member a blank Community Support Statement Form
upon request by the member. FHFA will provide a copy of this blank form to the Bank. Upon a member's request, the Bank must provide assistance to the member in completing the Community Support Statement.
(b)
Community Support Statement submission requirements.
Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, in each odd-numbered year, each member must submit to FHFA a completed Community Support Statement (and any other related information FHFA may require) in accordance with the submission dates designated by FHFA notice pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section. The member's completed Community Support Statement must be executed by an appropriate senior officer of the member and must be submitted to FHFA pursuant to FHFA's submission instructions.
(c)
Notice to public.
—(1)
By the Banks.
By a date designated by FHFA notice pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, each Bank must provide written notice to its Advisory Council, and to interested nonprofit housing developers, community groups, and other interested parties in its district, and include a notice on its public website, of the opportunity to submit comments on the community support programs and activities of Bank members, with the name and address of each member subject to community support review, and the deadline and FHFA contact information for submission of any comments to FHFA.
(2)
By FHFA.
FHFA may publish a notice in the
Federal Register
notifying the public of the opportunity to submit comments on the community support programs and activities of Bank members, with the deadline and FHFA contact information for submission of any comments to FHFA.
(3)
Consideration of comments.
In reviewing a member for compliance with the community support requirements, FHFA will take into consideration any public comments it has received concerning the member.
(d)
Non-Depository Community Development Financial Institutions.
A member that has been certified as a community development financial institution by the CDFI Fund, other than a member that also is an insured depository institution or a CDFI credit union (as defined in 12 CFR 1263.1), is deemed to be in compliance with the community support requirements of section 10(g) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(g)) and this part, by virtue of that certification. Such non-depository CDFIs, therefore, are not required to submit Community Support Statements to FHFA under paragraph (b) of this section and are not subject to community support review under this part.
(e)
New Bank members.
A member of a Bank is not required to submit a Community Support Statement under paragraph (b) of this section if the institution has been a member of a Bank for a total of less than one year as of March 31 of the year in which submissions are due under paragraph (b) of this section.
(f)
Designation of submission and notice dates.
FHFA will designate applicable dates for each biennial review cycle via written notice to the Banks. The notice will designate the date by which FHFA will begin accepting Community Support Statements and the date by which Community Support Statements must be submitted, as well as the dates by which the Banks must notify members under paragraph (a) of this section and the public under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. FHFA's written notice to the Banks will be issued at least 90 days prior to the date by which the Banks must notify members under paragraph (a).
[83 FR 52117, Oct. 16, 2018]
§ 1290.3
Community support standards.
(a)
In general.
A member subject to community support review meets the community support requirements of this part if it submits a completed Community Support Statement that demonstrates to FHFA's satisfaction that the member complies with both the CRA standard, if the member is subject to the requirements of the CRA, and the first-time homebuyer standard.
(b)
CRA standard.
A member meets the CRA standard if it is subject to the requirements of the CRA and the rating in the member's most recent CRA
evaluation is “Outstanding” or “Satisfactory.”
(c)
First-time homebuyer standard.
A member meets the first-time homebuyer standard if at least one of the following is satisfied:
(1) The member is subject to the requirements of the CRA and the rating in the member's most recent CRA evaluation is “Outstanding”;
(2) The member has an established record of lending to first-time homebuyers;
(3) The member has a program whereby it actively seeks to lend or support lending to first-time homebuyers, including, but not limited to, the following—
(i) Providing special credit products with flexible underwriting standards for first-time homebuyers;
(ii) Participating in Federal, State, or local government, or nationwide homeownership lending programs that benefit, serve, or are targeted to, first-time homebuyers; or
(iii) Participating in loan consortia for first-time homebuyer loans or loans that serve predominantly low- or moderate-income borrowers;
(4) The member has a program whereby it actively seeks to assist or support organizations that assist potential first-time homebuyers to qualify for mortgage loans, including, but not limited to, the following—
(i) Providing, participating in, or supporting special counseling programs or other homeownership education activities that benefit, serve, or are targeted to, first-time homebuyers;
(ii) Providing or participating in marketing plans and related outreach programs targeted to first-time homebuyers;
(iii) Providing technical assistance or financial support to organizations that assist first-time homebuyers;
(iv) Participating with or financially supporting community or nonprofit groups that assist first-time homebuyers;
(v) Holding investments or making loans that support first-time homebuyer programs;
(vi) Holding mortgage-backed securities that may include a pool of loans to low- and moderate-income homebuyers;
(vii) Participating or investing in service organizations that assist credit unions in providing mortgages to first-time homebuyers or low- or moderate-income households; or
(viii) Participating in a Bank Affordable Housing Program or other Bank targeted community investment or development program;
(5) The member engages in other activities, not covered by paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section, that demonstrate to FHFA's satisfaction the member's support for first-time homebuyers financing; or
(6) FHFA determines that mitigating factors affect the member's ability to engage in activities to assist first-time or potential first-time homebuyers as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section.
§ 1290.4
FHFA review and decision on Community Support Statements.
(a)
Review by FHFA.
FHFA will review each member approximately once every two years for compliance with the community support requirements of this part.
(b)
Complete Community Support Statements.
A Community Support Statement is complete when a member has provided to FHFA all of the information required by this part.
(c)
Decision on Community Support Statements.
FHFA will provide written notice to the member's Bank of FHFA's determination regarding the Community Support Statement submitted by the member. A notice placing a member on probation or restricting the member's access to long-term Bank advances will identify the reasons for FHFA's determination. The Bank must promptly notify the member of FHFA's determination regarding the member's Community Support Statement.
§ 1290.5
Probation or restriction on member access to long-term Bank advances.
(a)
Probation.
FHFA will place a member on probation if the member is subject to the CRA, its most recent CRA rating was “Needs to Improve,” and either the member has not received any other CRA rating or its second-
most recent CRA rating was “Outstanding” or “Satisfactory.”
(b)
Restriction.
FHFA will restrict a member's access to long-term advances if:
(1) The member failed to sign its Community Support Statement submitted to FHFA pursuant to § 1290.2(b), failed to include its CRA rating in its Community Support Statement submitted to FHFA if subject to the CRA, or failed to submit a Community Support Statement at all to FHFA;
(2) The member is subject to the CRA and its most recent CRA rating was “Substantial Noncompliance”;
(3) The member is subject to the CRA, its most recent CRA rating was “Needs to Improve,” and its second-most recent CRA rating was “Needs to Improve”;
(4) The member is subject to the CRA, its most recent CRA rating was “Needs to Improve,” its second-most recent CRA rating was “Substantial Noncompliance,” and its third-most recent CRA rating was “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance”; or
(5) The member has not demonstrated compliance with the first-time homebuyer standard.
(c)
Effective dates.
—(1)
Probation.
A probationary period under § 1290.5(a) will extend until the member's appropriate Federal banking agency completes its next CRA evaluation and issues a rating for the member. Probation will take effect on the date the notice required under § 1290.4(c) is sent by FHFA to the Bank. The member will be eligible to receive long-term advances during the probationary period.
(2)
Restriction.
A restriction on access to long-term advances will take effect 30 days after the date the notice required under § 1290.4(c) is sent by FHFA to the Bank, unless the member demonstrates compliance with the requirements of this part before the end of the 30-day period.
(d)
Removing a restriction.
—(1) FHFA may remove a restriction on a member's access to long-term advances imposed under this section if FHFA determines that application of the restriction may adversely affect the safety and soundness of the member. A member may submit a written request to FHFA to remove a restriction on access to long-term advances under this paragraph (d)(1). The written request must include a clear and concise statement of the basis for the request and a statement that application of the restriction may adversely affect the safety and soundness of the member from the member's appropriate Federal banking agency or the member's appropriate State regulator for a member that is not subject to regulation or supervision by a Federal regulator. FHFA will consider each written request within 30 calendar days of receipt.
(2) FHFA may remove a restriction on a member's access to long-term advances imposed under this section if FHFA determines that the member subsequently has complied with the requirements of this part. A member may submit a written request to FHFA to remove a restriction on access to long-term advances under this paragraph (d)(2). The written request must state with specificity how the member has complied with the requirements of this part. FHFA will consider each written request within 30 calendar days of receipt.
(3) FHFA may remove a restriction on a member's access to long-term advances imposed under this section and place the member on probation if the member is subject to the CRA, its most recent CRA rating was “Needs to Improve,” its second-most recent CRA rating was “Substantial Noncompliance,” and either the member has not received any other CRA rating or its third-most recent CRA rating was “Outstanding” or “Satisfactory.”
(4) FHFA will provide written notice to the member's Bank of any determination to remove a restriction under this paragraph (d). The Bank shall promptly notify the member of FHFA's determination to remove a restriction. FHFA's determination shall take effect on the date the notice is sent by FHFA to the Bank.
(e)
Bank Affordable Housing Programs and other Bank Community Investment Cash Advance Programs.
A member that is subject to a restriction on access to long-term advances under this part is not eligible to participate in the Bank's Affordable Housing Program (AHP) under part 1291 of this chapter or
in other Bank Community Investment Cash Advance (CICA) programs offered under part 1292 of this chapter. The restriction in this paragraph (e) does not apply to AHP or other CICA applications or funding approved before the date the restriction is imposed.
[80 FR 30342, May 28, 2015, as amended at 83 FR 52118, Oct. 16, 2018]
§ 1290.6
Bank community support programs.
(a)
Requirement.
Consistent with the safe and sound operation of the Bank, each Bank shall establish and maintain a community support program. A Bank's community support program shall:
(1) Provide technical assistance to members;
(2) Promote and expand affordable housing finance;
(3) Identify opportunities for members to expand financial and credit services in underserved neighborhoods and communities;
(4) Encourage members to increase their targeted community lending and affordable housing finance activities by providing incentives such as awards or technical assistance to nonprofit housing developers or community groups with outstanding records of participation in targeted community lending or affordable housing finance partnerships with members; and
(5) Include an annual Targeted Community Lending Plan approved by the Bank's board of directors and subject to modification. The Bank's board of directors shall not delegate to a committee of the board, Bank officers, or other Bank employees the responsibility to adopt or amend the Targeted Community Lending Plan. The Targeted Community Lending Plan shall:
(i) Reflect market research conducted in the Bank's district;
(ii) Describe how the Bank will address identified credit needs and market opportunities in the Bank's district for targeted community lending;
(iii) Be developed in consultation with (and may only be amended after consultation with) its Advisory Council and with members, housing associates, and public and private economic development organizations in the Bank's district;
(iv) Establish quantitative targeted community lending performance goals;
(v) Identify and assess significant affordable housing needs in its district that will be addressed through its Affordable Housing Program under 12 CFR part 1291, reflecting market research conducted or obtained by the Bank; and
(vi) For any Targeted Funds established by the Bank under its Affordable Housing Program, specify, from among the identified affordable housing needs, the particular affordable housing needs the Bank plans to address through such Targeted Funds.
(b)
Notice.
A Bank shall provide annually to each of its members a written notice:
(1) Identifying CICA programs and other Bank activities that may provide opportunities for a member to meet the community support requirements and to engage in targeted community lending; and
(2) Summarizing targeted community lending and affordable housing activities undertaken by members, housing associates, nonprofit housing developers, community groups, or other entities in the Bank's district that may provide opportunities for a member to meet the community support requirements and to engage in targeted community lending.
(c)
Public access.
A Bank shall publish its current Targeted Community Lending Plan on its publicly available website, and shall publish any amendments to its Targeted Community Lending Plan on the website within 30 days after the date of their adoption by the Bank's board of directors and no later than the date of publication on the website of its annual Affordable Housing Program Implementation Plan (as amended). If such amendments relate to the Bank's Affordable Housing Program, the Bank shall publish them no later than the date of publication on its website of its annual Affordable Housing Program Implementation Plan (as amended). If a Bank plans to establish any Targeted Funds under its Affordable Housing Program, the Bank must publish its Targeted Community Lending Plan (as amended) on the website at least 90 days before the first
day that applications may be submitted to the Targeted Fund, unless the Targeted Fund is specifically targeted to address a Federal- or State-declared disaster.
[80 FR 30342, May 28, 2015, as amended at 83 FR 61231, Nov. 28, 2018; 87 FR 32969, June 1, 2022]
§ 1290.7
Bank Advisory Council Annual Reports.
Each Annual Report submitted by a Bank's Advisory Council to FHFA pursuant to section 10(j)(11) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(11)) must include an analysis of the Bank's targeted community lending and affordable housing activities.
§ 1290.8
Compliance dates.
From December 28, 2018 to December 31, 2020, a Bank shall comply with either prior part 1290 (in 12 CFR part 1290 (January 1, 2018 edition)) or this part 1290. On and after January 1, 2021, a Bank shall comply with this part 1290.
[83 FR 61231, Nov. 28, 2018]
Pt. 1291

# PART 1291—FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS' AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1291.1
Definitions.
1291.2
Compliance dates.

# Subpart B—Program Administration and Governance
1291.10
Required annual AHP contribution.
1291.11
Temporary suspension of AHP contributions.
1291.12
Allocation of required annual AHP contribution.
1291.13
Targeted Community Lending Plan; AHP Implementation Plan.
1291.14
Advisory Councils.
1291.15
Agreements.
1291.16
Conflicts of interest.

# Subpart C—General Fund and Targeted Funds
1291.20
Establishment of programs.
1291.21
Eligible applicants.
1291.22
Funding rounds; application process.
1291.23
Eligible projects.
1291.24
Eligible uses.
1291.25
Scoring methodologies.
1291.26
Scoring criteria for the General Fund.
1291.27
Scoring criteria for Targeted Funds.
1291.28
Approval of AHP applications under the General Fund and Targeted Funds.
1291.29
Modifications of approved AHP applications.
1291.30
Procedures for funding.
1291.31
Lending and re-lending of AHP direct subsidy by revolving loan funds.
1291.32
Use of AHP subsidy in loan pools.

# Subpart D—Homeownership Set-Aside Programs
1291.40
Establishment of programs.
1291.41
Eligible applicants.
1291.42
Eligibility requirements.
1291.43
Approval of AHP applications.
1291.44
Procedures for funding.

# Subpart E—Monitoring
1291.50
Monitoring under General Fund and Targeted Funds.
1291.51
Monitoring under Homeownership Set-Aside Programs.

# Subpart F—Remedial Actions for Noncompliance
1291.60
Remedial actions for project noncompliance.
1291.61
Recovery of subsidy for member noncompliance.
1291.62
Bank reimbursement of AHP fund.
1291.63
Suspension and debarment.
1291.64
Use of repaid AHP subsidies.
1291.65
Transfer of Program administration.

# Subpart G—Affordable Housing Reserve Fund
1291.70
Affordable Housing Reserve Fund.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1430(j).

# Source:
83 FR 61231, Nov. 28, 2018, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1291.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Affordable
means that:
(1) The rent charged to a household for a unit that is to be reserved for occupancy by a household with an income at or below 80 percent of the median income for the area, does not exceed 30 percent of the income of a household of the maximum income and size expected, under the commitment made in the AHP application, to occupy the unit (assuming occupancy of 1.5 persons per bedroom or 1.0 persons
per unit without a separate bedroom); or
(2) The rent charged to a household, for rental units subsidized with Section 8 assistance under 42 U.S.C. 1437f or subsidized under another assistance program where the rents are charged in the same way as under the Section 8 program, if the rent complied with this definition at the time of the household's initial occupancy and the household continues to be assisted through the Section 8 or another assistance program, respectively.
AHP
means the Affordable Housing Program required to be established by the Banks pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1430(j) and this part.
AHP project
means a single-family or multifamily housing project for owner-occupied or rental housing that has been awarded or has received AHP subsidy under a Bank's General Fund and any Targeted Funds.
Cost of funds
means, for purposes of a subsidized advance, the estimated cost of issuing Bank System consolidated obligations with maturities comparable to that of the subsidized advance.
Direct subsidy
means an AHP subsidy in the form of a direct cash payment.
Eligible household
means a household that meets the income limits and other requirements specified by a Bank for its General Fund and any Targeted Funds and Homeownership Set-Aside Programs, provided that:
(1) In the case of owner-occupied housing, the household's income may not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area; and
(2) In the case of rental housing, the household's income in at least 20 percent of the units may not exceed 50 percent of the median income for the area.
Eligible project
means a project eligible to receive AHP subsidy pursuant to the requirements of this part.
Extremely low-income household
means a household that has an income at or below 30 percent of the median income for the area, with the income limit adjusted for household size in accordance with the methodology of the applicable median income standard selected from those enumerated in the definition of “median income for the area,” unless such median income standard has no household size adjustment methodology.
Family member
means any individual related to a person by blood, marriage, or adoption.
Funding round
means a time period, as determined by a Bank, during which the Bank accepts AHP applications for subsidy under its General Fund and any Targeted Funds.
General Fund
means a program that each Bank is required to establish and under which the Bank approves
(i.e.,
awards) applications for AHP subsidy through a competitive application scoring process and disburses the subsidy, pursuant to the requirements of this part.
Homeownership Set-Aside Program
means a program established by a Bank, in its discretion, under which the Bank approves (
i.e.,
awards) applications for AHP direct subsidy through a noncompetitive process developed by the Bank and disburses the subsidy, pursuant to the requirements of this part.
Household's investment
means the following, to the extent paid by the household and documented (in the Closing Disclosure or other settlement statement, if applicable, or elsewhere) to the Bank or its designee:
(1) Reasonable and customary costs paid by the household in connection with the purchase of the unit (including real estate broker's commission, attorney's fees, and title search fees);
(2) Any down payment paid in connection with the household's purchase of the unit;
(3) The cost of any capital improvements made after the household's purchase of the unit until the time of the subsequent sale, transfer, assignment of title or deed, or refinancing; and
(4) The amount of principal on any mortgage senior to the AHP subsidy lien or other legally enforceable AHP subsidy repayment obligation repaid by the household.
LIHTC
means Low-Income Housing Tax Credits under section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 42).
Loan pool
means a group of mortgage or other loans meeting the requirements of this part that are purchased, pooled, and held in trust.
Low- or moderate-income household
means a household that has an income of 80 percent or less of the median income for the area, with the income limit adjusted for household size in accordance with the methodology of the applicable median income standard selected from those enumerated in the definition of “median income for the area,” unless such median income standard has no household size adjustment methodology.
Median income for the area
means one or more of the following median income standards as determined by a Bank, after consultation with its Advisory Council, in its AHP Implementation Plan:
(1) The median income for the area, as published annually by HUD;
(2) The median income for the area obtained from the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council;
(3) The applicable median family income, as determined under 26 U.S.C. 143(f) (Mortgage Revenue Bonds) and published by a state agency or instrumentality;
(4) The median income for the area, as published by the United States Department of Agriculture; or
(5) The median income for an applicable definable geographic area, as published by a federal, state, or local government entity, and approved by FHFA, at the request of a Bank, for use under the AHP.
Multifamily building
means a structure with five or more dwelling units.
Net earnings of a Bank
means the net earnings of a Bank for a calendar year before declaring or paying any dividend under section 16 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1436). For purposes of this part, “dividend” includes any dividends on capital stock subject to a redemption request even if under GAAP those dividends are treated as an “interest expense.”
Net proceeds
means:
(1) In the case of a sale, transfer, or assignment of title or deed of an AHP-assisted unit by a household during the AHP five-year retention period, the sales price minus reasonable and customary costs paid by the household in connection with the transaction (including real estate broker's commission, attorney's fees, and title search fees) and outstanding debt superior to the AHP subsidy lien or other legally enforceable AHP subsidy repayment obligation;
(2) In the case of a refinancing of an AHP-assisted unit by a household during the AHP five-year retention period, the principal amount of the new mortgage minus reasonable and customary costs paid by the household in connection with the transaction (including attorney's fees and title search fees) and the principal amount of the refinanced mortgage.
Owner-occupied project
means, for purposes of a Bank's General Fund and any Targeted Funds, one or more owner-occupied units in a single-family or multifamily building, including condominiums, cooperative housing, and manufactured housing.
Owner-occupied unit
means a dwelling unit occupied by the owner of the unit. Housing with two to four dwelling units consisting of one owner-occupied unit and one or more rental units is considered a single owner-occupied unit.
Program
means the Affordable Housing Program established pursuant to this part.
Rental project
means, for purposes of a Bank's General Fund and any Targeted Funds, one or more dwelling units for occupancy by households that are not owner-occupants, including overnight and emergency shelters, transitional housing for homeless households, mutual housing, single-room occupancy housing, and manufactured housing communities.
Retention period
means:
(1) Five years from closing for an AHP-assisted owner-occupied unit where the AHP subsidy is used for purchase of the unit, for purchase in conjunction with rehabilitation of the unit, or for construction of the unit; and
(2) Fifteen years from the date of completion for a rental project.
Revolving loan fund
means a capital fund established to make mortgage or other loans whereby loan principal is repaid into the fund and re-lent to other borrowers.
Single-family building
means a structure with one to four dwelling units.
Sponsor
means a not-for-profit or for-profit organization or public entity that:
(1) Has an ownership interest (including any partnership interest), as defined by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan, in a rental project;
(2) Is integrally involved, as defined by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan, in an owner-occupied project, such as by exercising control over the planning, development, or management of the project, or by qualifying borrowers and providing or arranging financing for the owners of the units;
(3) Operates a loan pool; or
(4) Is a revolving loan fund.
Subsidized advance
means an advance to a member at an interest rate reduced below the Bank's cost of funds by use of a subsidy.
Subsidy
means:
(1) A direct subsidy, provided that if a direct subsidy is used to write down the interest rate on a loan extended by a member, sponsor, or other party to a project, the subsidy must equal the net present value of the interest foregone from making the loan below the lender's market interest rate; or
(2) The net present value of the interest revenue foregone from making a subsidized advance at a rate below the Bank's cost of funds.
Targeted Fund
means a program established by a Bank, in its discretion, to address specific affordable housing needs within its district that are unmet, have proven difficult to address through its General Fund, or align with objectives identified in its strategic plan, under which the Bank approves (
i.e.,
awards) applications for AHP subsidy through a competitive application scoring process developed by the Bank and disburses the subsidy, pursuant to the requirements of this part.
Very low-income household
means a household that has an income at or below 50 percent of the median income for the area, with the income limit adjusted for household size in accordance with the methodology of the applicable median income standard selected from those enumerated in the definition of “median income for the area,” unless such median income standard has no household size adjustment methodology.
Visitable
means, in either owner-occupied or rental housing, at least one entrance is at-grade (no steps) and approached by an accessible route such as a sidewalk, and the entrance door and all interior passage doors are at least 34 inches wide, offering 32 inches of clear passage space.
[83 FR 61231, Nov. 28, 2018, as amended at 87 FR 32969, June 1, 2022]
§ 1291.2
Compliance dates.
(a)
General January 1, 2021 compliance date.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, from December 28, 2018 to December 31, 2020, a Bank shall comply with either prior part 1291 (in 12 CFR part 1291 (January 1, 2018 edition)) or this part 1291, and on and after January 1, 2021, a Bank shall comply with this part 1291.
(b)
January 1, 2020 compliance date for owner-occupied retention agreements; exception for adoption of proxies.
From December 28, 2018 to December 31, 2019, a Bank shall comply with either prior § 1291.9(a)(7) (in 12 CFR part 1291 (January 1, 2018 edition)) or § 1291.15(a)(7), and on and after January 1, 2020, a Bank shall comply with § 1291.15(a)(7), except that a Bank shall comply with § 1291.15(a)(7)(ii)(B) on the date set forth in the FHFA guidance on proxies referenced therein.

# Subpart B—Program Administration and Governance
§ 1291.10
Required annual AHP contribution.
Each Bank shall contribute annually to its Program the greater of:
(a) 10 percent of the Bank's net earnings for the previous year; or
(b) That Bank's pro rata share of an aggregate of $100 million to be contributed in total by the Banks, such proration being made on the basis of the net earnings of the Banks for the previous year, except that the required annual AHP contribution for a Bank shall not exceed its net earnings in the previous year.
§ 1291.11
Temporary suspension of AHP contributions.
(a)
Request to FHFA.
If a Bank finds that the contributions required pursuant to § 1291.10 are contributing to the financial instability of the Bank, the Bank may apply in writing to FHFA for a temporary suspension of such contributions.
(b)
Director review
—(1)
Financial instability.
In determining the financial instability of a Bank, the Director shall consider such factors as:
(i) Severely depressed Bank earnings;
(ii) A substantial decline in Bank membership capital; and
(iii) A substantial reduction in Bank advances outstanding.
(2)
Limitations on grounds for suspension.
The Director shall not suspend a Bank's annual AHP contributions if it determines that the Bank's reduction in earnings is due to:
(i) A change in the terms of advances to members that is not justified by market conditions;
(ii) Inordinate operating and administrative expenses; or
(iii) Mismanagement.
§ 1291.12
Allocation of required annual AHP contribution.
Each Bank, after consultation with its Advisory Council and pursuant to written policies adopted by the Bank's board of directors, shall meet the following requirements for allocation of its required annual AHP contribution.
(a)
General Fund.
Each Bank shall allocate annually at least 50 percent of its required annual AHP contribution to provide funds to members through a General Fund established and administered by the Bank pursuant to the requirements of this part.
(b)
Homeownership Set-Aside Programs.
A Bank may, in its discretion, allocate annually, in the aggregate, up to the greater of $4.5 million or 35 percent of its required annual AHP contribution to provide funds to members participating in Homeownership Set-Aside Programs established and administered by the Bank pursuant to the requirements of this part, provided that at least one-third of the Bank's aggregate annual set-aside allocation to such programs is allocated to assist first-time homebuyers or households for owner-occupied rehabilitation, or a combination of both.
(c)
Targeted Funds—phase-in requirements for funding allocations.
Unless otherwise directed by FHFA and subject to the phase-in requirements for the number of Targeted Funds in § 1291.20(b), a Bank may, in its discretion, allocate annually, up to:
(1) 20 percent, in the aggregate, of its required annual AHP contribution to any Targeted Funds;
(2) 30 percent, in the aggregate, of its required annual AHP contribution to any Targeted Funds, provided that it allocated at least 20 percent, in the aggregate, of its required annual AHP contribution to one or more Targeted Funds in any preceding year; or
(3) 40 percent, in the aggregate, of its required annual AHP contribution to any Targeted Funds, provided that it allocated at least 30 percent, in the aggregate, of its required annual AHP contribution to one or more Targeted Funds in any preceding year.
(d)
Acceleration of funding.
A Bank may, in its discretion, accelerate to its current year's Program from future required annual AHP contributions an amount up to the greater of $5 million or 20 percent of its required annual AHP contribution for the current year. The Bank may credit the amount of the accelerated contribution against required AHP contributions under this part 1291 over one or more of the subsequent five years.
(e)
No delegation.
A Bank's board of directors shall not delegate to a committee of the board, Bank officers, or other Bank employees the responsibility for adopting the Bank's policies for its General Fund and any Targeted Funds and Homeownership Set-Aside Programs.
§ 1291.13
Targeted Community Lending Plan; AHP Implementation Plan.
(a)
Targeted Community Lending Plan
—(1)
Identification of housing needs.
Pursuant to the requirements of 12 CFR 1290.6(a)(5)(v) and (vi), a Bank's annual Targeted Community Lending Plan adopted under its community support program shall, among other things, identify the significant affordable housing needs in its district that
will be addressed through its AHP, as well as any specific affordable housing needs it plans to address through any Targeted Funds as set forth in its AHP Implementation Plan.
(2)
Public access.
A Bank shall publish its current Targeted Community Lending Plan on its publicly available website, and shall publish any amendments to its Targeted Community Lending Plan on the website within 30 days after the date of their adoption by the Bank's board of directors and no later than the date of publication on the website of its annual AHP Implementation Plan (as amended). If such amendments relate to the Bank's AHP, the Bank shall publish them no later than the date of publication on its website of its annual AHP Implementation Plan (as amended). If a Bank plans to establish any Targeted Funds under its AHP, the Bank must publish its Targeted Community Lending Plan (as amended) on the website at least 90 days before the first day that applications may be submitted to the Targeted Fund, unless the Targeted Fund is specifically targeted to address a Federal- or State-declared disaster.
(3)
Notification of Plan amendments to FHFA.
A Bank shall notify FHFA of any amendments to its Targeted Community Lending Plan within 30 days after the date of their adoption by the Bank's board of directors.
(b)
AHP Implementation Plan.
Each Bank's board of directors, after consultation with its Advisory Council, shall adopt a written AHP Implementation Plan, and shall not amend the AHP Implementation Plan without first consulting its Advisory Council. The Bank's board of directors shall not delegate to Bank officers or other Bank employees the responsibility for such prior consultations with the Advisory Council, and shall not delegate to a committee of the board, Bank officers, or other Bank employees the responsibility for adopting or amending the AHP Implementation Plan. The AHP Implementation Plan shall set forth, at a minimum:
(1) The applicable median income standard or standards adopted by the Bank consistent with the definition of “median income for the area” in § 1291.1.
(2) For the General Fund established by the Bank pursuant to § 1291.20(a), the Bank's requirements for the General Fund, including the Bank's scoring methodology, including its scoring tie-breaker policy adopted pursuant to §§ 1291.25(c) and 1291.28(c), and any policy on approving AHP application alternates for funding pursuant to §§ 1291.25(c)(6) and 1291.28(b).
(3) For each Targeted Fund established by the Bank, if any, pursuant to § 1291.20(b), the Bank's requirements for the Targeted Fund, including the Bank's scoring methodology for each Fund, including its scoring tie-breaker policy adopted pursuant to §§ 1291.25(c) and 1291.28(c), and any policy on approving AHP application alternates for funding pursuant to §§ 1291.25(c)(6) and 1291.28(b), and the parameters adopted pursuant to § 1291.20(b)(2).
(4) The Bank's policy on how it will determine under which Fund to approve an application for the same project that is submitted to more than one Fund at a Bank in a calendar year and scores high enough to be approved under each Fund, pursuant to § 1291.28(d).
(5) For each Homeownership Set-Aside Program established by the Bank, if any, pursuant to § 1291.40, the Bank's requirements for the program, including the Bank's application and subsidy disbursement methodology.
(6) The Bank's retention agreement requirements for projects and households under its General Fund, any Targeted Funds, and any Homeownership Set-Aside Programs, pursuant to § 1291.15(a)(7) and (8), including the proxy or proxies selected by the Bank for determining a subsequent purchaser's income pursuant to FHFA guidance under § 1291.15(a)(7)(ii)(B).
(7) The Bank's standards for approving a relocation plan for current occupants of rental projects pursuant to § 1291.23(a)(2)(ii)(B).
(8) Any optional Bank district eligibility requirements adopted by the Bank pursuant to § 1291.24(c).
(9) The Bank's requirements for funding revolving loan funds, if adopted by the Bank pursuant to § 1291.31;
(10) The Bank's requirements for funding loan pools, if adopted by the Bank pursuant to § 1291.32;
(11) The Bank's requirements for monitoring under its General Fund and any Targeted Funds and Homeownership Set-Aside Programs pursuant to §§ 1291.50 and 1291.51.
(12) The Bank's requirements, including time limits, for re-use of repaid AHP direct subsidy in the same project, if adopted by the Bank pursuant to § 1291.64(b).
(c)
Advisory Council review.
Prior to the amendment of a Bank's AHP Implementation Plan, the Bank shall provide its Advisory Council an opportunity to review the document, and the Advisory Council shall provide its recommendations to the Bank's board of directors for its consideration.
(d)
Notification of Plan amendments to FHFA.
A Bank shall notify FHFA of any amendments made to its AHP Implementation Plan within 30 days after the date of their adoption by the Bank's board of directors.
(e)
Public access.
A Bank shall publish its current AHP Implementation Plan on its publicly available website, and shall publish any amendments to the AHP Implementation Plan on the website within 30 days after the date of their adoption by the Bank's board of directors.
[83 FR 61231, Nov. 28, 2018, as amended at 87 FR 32969, June 1, 2022]
§ 1291.14
Advisory Councils.
(a)
Appointment.
(1) Each Bank's board of directors shall appoint an Advisory Council of 7 to 15 persons who reside in the Bank's district and are drawn from community and not-for-profit organizations that are actively involved in providing or promoting low- and moderate-income housing, and community and not-for-profit organizations that are actively involved in providing or promoting community lending, in the district. Community organizations include for-profit organizations.
(2) Each Bank shall solicit nominations for membership on the Advisory Council from community and not-for-profit organizations pursuant to a nomination process that is as broad and as participatory as possible, allowing sufficient time for responses.
(3) The Bank's board of directors shall appoint Advisory Council members from a diverse range of organizations so that representatives of no one group constitute an undue proportion of the membership of the Advisory Council, giving consideration to the size of the Bank's district and the diversity of low- and moderate-income housing and community lending needs and activities within the district.
(b)
Terms of Advisory Council members.
Pursuant to policies adopted by the Bank's board of directors, Advisory Council members shall be appointed by the Bank's board of directors to serve for terms of three years, which shall be staggered to provide continuity in experience and service to the Advisory Council, except that Advisory Council members may be appointed to serve for terms of one or two years solely for purposes of reconfiguring the staggering of the three-year terms. No Advisory Council member may be appointed to serve for more than three full consecutive terms. An Advisory Council member appointed to fill a vacancy shall be appointed for the unexpired term of his or her predecessor in office.
(c)
Election of officers.
Each Advisory Council shall elect from among its members a chairperson, a vice chairperson, and any other officers the Advisory Council deems appropriate.
(d)
Duties
—(1)
Meetings with the Banks.
(i) The Advisory Council shall meet with representatives of the Bank's board of directors at least quarterly to provide advice on ways in which the Bank can better carry out its housing finance and community lending mission, including, but not limited to, advice on the low- and moderate-income housing and community lending programs and needs in the Bank's district, and on the use of AHP subsidies, Bank advances, and other Bank credit products for these purposes.
(ii) The Advisory Council's advice shall include recommendations on:
(A) The Bank's Targeted Community Lending Plan, and any amendments thereto, pursuant to 12 CFR 1290.6(a)(5)(iii);
(B) The amount of AHP funds to be allocated to the Bank's General Fund and any Targeted Funds and Homeownership Set-Aside Programs, including
how the set-aside funds should be apportioned under the one-third funding allocation requirement in § 1291.12(b);
(C) The AHP Implementation Plan and any subsequent amendments thereto;
(D) The Bank's scoring methodologies, related definitions, and any additional optional district eligibility requirements for the General Fund and any Targeted Funds; and
(E) The eligibility requirements and any priority criteria for any Homeownership Set-Aside Programs.
(2)
Summary of AHP applications.
The Bank shall comply with requests from the Advisory Council for summary information regarding AHP applications from prior funding rounds.
(3)
Annual analysis; public access.
(i) Each Advisory Council annually shall submit to FHFA by May 1 its analysis of the low- and moderate-income housing and community lending activity of the Bank by which it is appointed.
(ii) Within 30 days after the date the Advisory Council's annual analysis is submitted to FHFA, the Bank shall publish the analysis on its publicly available website.
(e)
Expenses.
The Bank shall pay Advisory Council members' travel expenses, including transportation and subsistence, for each day devoted to attending meetings with representatives of the board of directors of the Bank and meetings requested by FHFA.
(f)
No delegation.
A Bank's board of directors shall not delegate to Bank officers or other Bank employees the responsibility to appoint persons as members of the Advisory Council or to meet with the Advisory Council at the quarterly meetings required by the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(11)).
§ 1291.15
Agreements.
(a)
Agreements between Banks and members.
A Bank shall have in place with each member receiving an AHP subsidized advance or AHP direct subsidy an agreement or agreements containing, at a minimum, the following provisions, where applicable:
(1)
Notification of member.
The member has been notified of the requirements of this part as they may be amended from time to time, and all Bank policies relevant to the member's approved application for AHP subsidy.
(2)
AHP subsidy pass-through.
The member shall pass on the full amount of the AHP subsidy to the project or household, as applicable, for which the subsidy was approved.
(3)
Use of AHP subsidy
—(i)
Use of AHP subsidy by the member.
The member shall use the AHP subsidy in accordance with the terms of the member's approved application for the subsidy and the requirements of this part.
(ii)
Use of AHP subsidy by the project sponsor or owner.
The member shall have in place an agreement with each project sponsor or owner in which the project sponsor or owner agrees to use the AHP subsidy in accordance with the terms of the member's approved application for the subsidy and the requirements of this part.
(4)
Repayment of AHP subsidies in case of noncompliance
—(i)
Noncompliance by the member.
The member shall repay AHP subsidies to the Bank in accordance with the requirements of § 1291.61.
(ii)
Noncompliance by a project sponsor or owner
—(A)
Agreement.
The member shall have in place an agreement with each project sponsor or owner in which the project sponsor or owner agrees to repay AHP subsidies to the member or the Bank in accordance with the requirements of § 1291.60.
(B)
Recovery of AHP subsidies.
The member shall recover from the project sponsor or owner and repay to the Bank AHP subsidies in accordance with the requirements of § 1291.60 (if applicable).
(5)
Project monitoring
—(i)
Monitoring by the member.
The member shall comply with the monitoring requirements applicable to it, as established by the Bank in its monitoring policies pursuant to §§ 1291.50 and 1291.51.
(ii)
Agreement; LIHTC noncompliance notice.
The member shall have in place an agreement with each project sponsor and owner, in which the project sponsor and owner agree to comply with the monitoring requirements applicable to such parties, as established by the Bank in its monitoring policies pursuant to § 1291.50. The member's agreement shall also include an agreement by the project owner to provide prompt written notice to the Bank if
the project also received LIHTC and the project is in material and unresolved noncompliance with the LIHTC income targeting or rent requirements at any time during the AHP 15-year retention period.
(6)
Transfer of AHP obligations
—(i)
To another member.
The member shall make best efforts to transfer its obligations under the approved application for AHP subsidy to another member in the event of its loss of membership in the Bank prior to the Bank's final disbursement of AHP subsidies.
(ii)
To a nonmember.
If, after final disbursement of AHP subsidies to the member, the member undergoes an acquisition or a consolidation resulting in a successor organization that is not a member of the Bank, the nonmember successor organization assumes the member's obligations under its approved application for AHP subsidy, and where the member received an AHP subsidized advance, the nonmember assumes such obligations until prepayment or orderly liquidation by the nonmember of the subsidized advance.
(7)
Owner-occupied units—required provisions for retention agreements.
The member shall ensure that where a household receives AHP subsidy for purchase, for purchase in conjunction with rehabilitation, or for construction of an owner-occupied unit, the unit is subject to a deed restriction or other legally enforceable retention agreement or mechanism requiring that:
(i)
Notice.
The Bank, and in its discretion any designee of the Bank, shall be given notice of any sale, transfer, assignment of title or deed, or refinancing of the unit by the household occurring during the AHP five-year retention period;
(ii)
Repayment of subsidy; exceptions.
In the case of a sale, transfer, assignment of title or deed, or refinancing of the unit by the household during the retention period, the amount of AHP subsidy calculated in accordance with paragraph (a)(7)(v) of this section shall be repaid to the Bank, unless one of the following exceptions applies:
(A) The unit was assisted with a permanent mortgage loan funded by an AHP subsidized advance;
(B) The subsequent purchaser, transferee, or assignee is a low- or moderate-income household, as determined by the Bank. For any sale, transfer, or assignment that occurs after the date established by FHFA in guidance on the use of proxies, the Bank or its designee shall determine the household's income using one or more proxies that are reliable indicators of the subsequent purchaser's income, which may be selected by the Bank pursuant to the FHFA guidance and shall be included in the Bank's AHP Implementation Plan, unless documentation demonstrating that household's actual income is available. The Bank or its designee is not required to request or obtain such documentation, but must use it in lieu of a proxy if available;
(C) The amount of the AHP subsidy that would be required to be repaid in accordance with the calculation in paragraph (a)(7)(v) of this section is $2,500 or less; or
(D) Following a refinancing, the unit continues to be subject to a deed restriction or other legally enforceable retention agreement or mechanism described in this paragraph (a)(7);
(iii)
Subsidy repayments to Bank, member, or project sponsor.
In the case of a direct subsidy, such repayment of AHP subsidy shall be made:
(A) To the Bank. If the Bank has not authorized re-use of the repaid AHP subsidy or has authorized re-use of the repaid subsidy but not retention of such repaid subsidy by the member or project sponsor pursuant to § 1291.64(b) of this part, or has authorized retention and re-use of such repaid subsidy by the member or project sponsor pursuant to such section and the repaid subsidy is not re-used in accordance with the requirements of the Bank and such section; or
(B) To the member or project sponsor. To the member or project sponsor for re-use by such member or project sponsor, if the Bank has authorized retention and re-use of such subsidy by the member or project sponsor pursuant to § 1291.64(b);
(iv)
Termination of subsidy repayment obligation.
The obligation to repay AHP subsidy to the Bank shall terminate after any event of foreclosure, transfer
by deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, an assignment of a Federal Housing Administration first mortgage to HUD, or death of the AHP-assisted homeowner; and
(v)
Calculation of AHP subsidy repayment based on net proceeds and household's investment.
The Bank shall be repaid the lesser of:
(A) The AHP subsidy, reduced on a pro rata basis per month until the unit is sold, transferred, or its title or deed transferred, or is refinanced, during the AHP five-year retention period; or
(B) Any net proceeds from the sale, transfer, or assignment of title or deed of the unit, or the refinancing, as applicable, minus the AHP-assisted household's investment.
(8)
Rental projects—required provisions for retention agreements.
The member shall ensure that an AHP-assisted rental project is subject to a deed restriction or other legally enforceable retention agreement or mechanism requiring that:
(i)
Income and rent commitments.
The project's rental units, or applicable portion thereof, must remain occupied by and affordable for households with incomes at or below the levels committed to be served in the approved AHP application for the duration of the AHP 15-year retention period;
(ii)
Notice.
The Bank, and in its discretion any designee of the Bank, shall be given notice of any sale, transfer, assignment of title or deed, or refinancing of the project by the project owner occurring during the retention period;
(iii)
Repayment of subsidy; exceptions.
In the case of a sale, transfer, assignment of title or deed, or refinancing of the project by the project owner during the retention period, the full amount of the AHP subsidy received by the project owner shall be repaid to the Bank, unless one of the following exceptions applies:
(A) The project continues to be subject to a deed restriction or other legally enforceable retention agreement or mechanism incorporating the income-eligibility and affordability restrictions committed to in the approved AHP application for the duration of the AHP 15-year retention period; or
(B) If authorized by the Bank, in its discretion, the households are relocated, due to the exercise of eminent domain, or for expansion of housing or services, to another property that is made subject to a deed restriction or other legally enforceable retention agreement or mechanism incorporating the income-eligibility and affordability restrictions committed to in the approved AHP application for the remainder of the AHP 15-year retention period; and
(iv)
Termination of income and rent restrictions.
The income-eligibility and affordability restrictions applicable to the project shall terminate after any foreclosure.
(9)
Lending of AHP direct subsidies.
If a member or a project sponsor lends AHP direct subsidy to a project, any repayments of principal and payments of interest received by the member or the project sponsor must be paid forthwith to the Bank, unless the direct subsidy is being both lent and re-lent by a revolving loan fund pursuant to § 1291.31(d).
(10)
Special provisions where members obtain AHP subsidized advances
—(i)
Repayment schedule.
The term of an AHP subsidized advance shall be no longer than the term of the member's loan to the project funded by the advance, and at least once in every 12-month period, the member shall be scheduled to make a principal repayment to the Bank equal to the amount scheduled to be repaid to the member on its loan to the project in that period.
(ii)
Prepayment fees.
Upon a prepayment of an AHP subsidized advance, the Bank shall charge a prepayment fee only to the extent the Bank suffers an economic loss from the prepayment.
(iii)
Treatment of loan prepayment by project.
If all or a portion of the loan or loans financed by an AHP subsidized advance are prepaid by the project to the member, the member may, at its option, either:
(A) Repay to the Bank that portion of the advance used to make the loan or loans to the project, and be subject to a fee imposed by the Bank sufficient to compensate the Bank for any economic loss the Bank experiences in reinvesting the repaid amount at a rate
of return below the cost of funds originally used by the Bank to calculate the interest rate subsidy incorporated in the advance; or
(B) Continue to maintain the advance outstanding, subject to the Bank resetting the interest rate on that portion of the advance used to make the loan or loans to the project to a rate equal to the cost of funds originally used by the Bank to calculate the interest rate subsidy incorporated in the advance.
(b)
Agreements between Banks and project sponsors or owners
—(1)
Repayment of subsidies.
A Bank may have in place an agreement with each project sponsor or owner, in which the project sponsor or owner agrees to repay AHP subsidies directly to the Bank in accordance with the requirements of § 1291.60.
(2)
Project sponsor qualifications.
A Bank's AHP subsidy application form and AHP subsidy disbursement form for each subsidy disbursement (or other related documents) must include a requirement for the project sponsor to provide a certification that it meets the project sponsor qualifications criteria established by the Bank and that it has not engaged in, and is not engaging in, covered misconduct as defined in FHFA's Suspended Counterparty Program regulation (12 CFR part 1227), or as defined by the Bank, provided the Bank's definition incorporates the definition in 12 CFR part 1227 at a minimum.
(c)
Application to existing AHP agreements.
The requirements of section 10(j) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(j)) and the provisions of this part, as amended, are incorporated into all AHP agreements between a Bank and any member, project sponsor, or project owner receiving AHP subsidies under the General Fund and any Targeted Funds, and between a Bank and any member or unit owner under any Homeownership Set-Aside Programs. To the extent the requirements of this part are amended from time to time, such agreements are deemed to incorporate the amendments to conform to any new requirements of this part. No amendment to this part shall affect the legality of actions taken prior to the effective date of such amendment.
[83 FR 61231, Nov. 28, 2018, as amended at 87 FR 32969, June 1, 2022]
§ 1291.16
Conflicts of interest.
(a)
Bank directors and employees.
(1) Each Bank's board of directors shall adopt a written policy providing that if a Bank director or employee, or such person's family member, has a financial interest in, or is a director, officer, or employee of an organization involved in, a project that is the subject of a pending or approved AHP application, the Bank director or employee shall not participate in or attempt to influence decisions by the Bank regarding the evaluation, approval, funding, monitoring, or any remedial process for such project.
(2) If a Bank director or employee, or such person's family member, has a financial interest in, or is a director, officer, or employee of an organization involved in, an AHP project such that he or she is subject to the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, such person shall not participate in or attempt to influence decisions by the Bank regarding the evaluation, approval, funding, monitoring, or any remedial process for such project.
(b)
Advisory Council members.
(1) Each Bank's board of directors shall adopt a written policy providing that if an Advisory Council member, or such person's family member, has a financial interest in, or is a director, officer, or employee of an organization involved in, a project that is the subject of a pending or approved AHP application, the Advisory Council member shall not participate in or attempt to influence decisions by the Bank regarding the approval for such project.
(2) If an Advisory Council member, or such person's family member, has a financial interest in, or is a director, officer, or employee of an organization involved in, an AHP project such that he or she is subject to the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, such person shall not participate in or attempt to influence decisions by the Bank regarding the approval for such project.
(c)
No delegation.
A Bank's board of directors shall not delegate to Bank officers or other Bank employees the responsibility to adopt the conflict of interest policies required by this section.

# Subpart C—General Fund and Targeted Funds
§ 1291.20
Establishment of programs.
(a)
General Fund
—(1)
Establishment.
A Bank shall establish a General Fund pursuant to the requirements of this part.
(2)
Eligibility requirements.
A Bank may not adopt eligibility requirements for its General Fund except as specifically authorized in this part.
(b)
Targeted Funds
—(1)
Establishment; number of Targeted Funds and funding allocation amounts.
A Bank may establish, in its discretion, up to three Targeted Funds to address specified affordable housing needs in its district pursuant to the phase-in funding allocation requirements in § 1291.12(c)(1), the following phase-in requirements for the number of Targeted Funds unless otherwise directed by FHFA, and any other applicable requirements of this part:
(i) One Targeted Fund;
(ii) Two Targeted Funds to be administered in the same calendar year, provided that the Bank administered at least one Targeted Fund in any preceding year; or
(iii) Three Targeted Funds to be administered in the same calendar year, provided that the Bank administered at least two Targeted Funds in any preceding year.
(2)
Eligibility requirements.
(i) A Bank shall adopt and implement parameters, which shall be included in its AHP Implementation Plan, for ensuring that each Targeted Fund is designed to receive sufficient numbers of applicants for the amount of AHP funds allocated to the Targeted Fund to enable the Bank to facilitate a robust competitive scoring process.
(ii) A Bank may not adopt eligibility requirements for its Targeted Funds except as specifically authorized in this part.
§ 1291.21
Eligible applicants.
(a)
Member applicants.
A Bank shall accept applications for AHP subsidy under its General Fund and any Targeted Funds only from institutions that are members of the Bank at the time the application is submitted to the Bank.
(b)
Project sponsor qualifications
—(1)
In general.
A project sponsor must be qualified and able to perform its responsibilities as committed to in the application for AHP subsidy funding the project.
(2)
Revolving loan fund.
Pursuant to written policies adopted by a Bank's board of directors, a revolving loan fund sponsor that intends to use AHP direct subsidy in accordance with § 1291.31 shall:
(i) Provide audited financial statements that its operations are consistent with sound business practices; and
(ii) Demonstrate the ability to re-lend AHP subsidy repayments on a timely basis and track the use of the AHP subsidy.
(3)
Loan pool.
Pursuant to written policies adopted by a Bank's board of directors, a loan pool sponsor that intends to use AHP subsidy in accordance with § 1291.32 shall:
(i) Provide evidence of sound asset/liability management practices;
(ii) Provide audited financial statements that its operations are consistent with sound business practices; and
(iii) Demonstrate the ability to track the use of the AHP subsidy.
§ 1291.22
Funding rounds; application process.
(a)
Funding rounds.
A Bank may accept applications from proposed projects for AHP subsidy under its General Fund and any Targeted Funds during a specified number of funding rounds each year, as determined by the Bank.
(b)
Submission of applications.
Except as provided in § 1291.29(a), a Bank shall require applications for AHP subsidy to contain information sufficient for the Bank to:
(1) Determine that the proposed AHP project meets the eligibility requirements of this part; and
(2) Evaluate the application pursuant to the scoring methodology adopted by the Bank pursuant to §§ 1291.25, 1291.26, and 1291.27, as applicable.
(c)
Review of applications submitted.
Except as provided in § 1291.29(b), a Bank shall review the applications for AHP subsidy to determine that the proposed AHP project meets the eligibility requirements of this part, and shall evaluate the applications pursuant to the Bank's scoring methodology adopted pursuant to §§ 1291.25, 1291.26, and 1291.27, as applicable.
§ 1291.23
Eligible projects.
Projects receiving AHP subsidies pursuant to a Bank's General Fund and any Targeted Funds must meet the following eligibility requirements:
(a)
Owner-occupied or rental housing.
The AHP subsidy shall be used exclusively for:
(1)
Owner-occupied housing.
The purchase, construction, or rehabilitation of an owner-occupied project for very low-income or low- or moderate-income households, where the housing is to be used as the household's primary residence. A household must have an income meeting the income targeting commitments in the approved AHP application at the time it is qualified by the project sponsor for participation in the project;
(2)
Rental housing.
The purchase, construction, or rehabilitation of a rental project, where at least 20 percent of the units in the project are occupied by and affordable for very low-income households.
(i)
Projects that are not occupied.
For a rental project that is not occupied at the time the AHP application is submitted to the Bank for approval, a household must have an income meeting the income targeting commitments in the approved AHP application upon initial occupancy of the rental unit.
(ii)
Projects that are occupied.
(A) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, for a rental project involving purchase or rehabilitation that is occupied at the time the AHP application is submitted to the Bank for approval, a household must have an income meeting the income targeting commitments in the approved AHP application at the time of such submission.
(B) If the project has a relocation plan for current occupants that is approved by one of its federal, state, or local government funders, or a reasonable relocation plan for current occupants that is otherwise approved by the Bank according to standards included in the Bank's AHP Implementation Plan, a household may have an income meeting the income targeting commitments upon initial occupancy of the rental unit after completion of the purchase or rehabilitation.
(b)
Project feasibility
—(1)
Developmental feasibility.
The project must be likely to be completed and occupied, based on relevant factors contained in the Bank's project feasibility guidelines, including, but not limited to, the development budget, market analysis, and project sponsor's experience in providing the requested assistance to households.
(2)
Operational feasibility of rental projects.
A rental project must be able to operate in a financially sound manner, in accordance with the Bank's project feasibility guidelines, as projected in the project's operating pro forma.
(c)
Timing of AHP subsidy use.
Some or all of the AHP subsidy must be likely to be drawn down by the project or used by the project to procure other financing commitments within 12 months of the date of approval of the application for AHP subsidy funding the project.
(d)
Retention agreements
—(1)
Owner-occupied projects.
Each AHP-assisted unit in an owner-occupied project for which the AHP subsidy was used for purchase, for purchase in conjunction with rehabilitation, or for construction of the unit by the AHP-assisted household, is, or is committed to be, subject to a five-year retention agreement described in § 1291.15(a)(7).
(2)
Rental projects.
AHP-assisted rental projects are, or are committed to be, subject to a 15-year retention agreement as described in § 1291.15(a)(8).
(e)
Fair housing.
The project, as proposed, must comply with applicable federal and state laws on fair housing and housing accessibility, including, but not limited to, the Fair Housing
Act, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Architectural Barriers Act of 1969, and must demonstrate how the project will be affirmatively marketed.
[83 FR 61231, Nov. 28, 2018, as amended at 87 FR 32969, June 1, 2022]
§ 1291.24
Eligible uses.
(a)
Eligible uses of AHP subsidy.
AHP subsidies shall be used only for:
(1)
Owner-occupied housing.
The purchase, construction, or rehabilitation of owner-occupied housing.
(2)
Rental housing.
The purchase, construction, or rehabilitation of rental housing.
(3)
Need for AHP subsidy
—(i)
Review of project development budget.
The project's estimated sources of funds shall equal its estimated uses of funds, as reflected in the project's development budget. The difference between the project's sources of funds (excluding AHP subsidy) and uses of funds is the project's need for AHP subsidy, which is the maximum amount of AHP subsidy the project may receive. A Bank, in its discretion, may permit a project's sources of funds to include or exclude the estimated market value of in-kind donations and voluntary professional labor or services (excluding the value of sweat equity), provided that the project's uses of funds also include or exclude, respectively, the value of such estimates.
(ii)
Cash sources of funds.
A project's cash sources of funds shall include any cash contributions by the sponsor, any cash from sources other than the sponsor, and estimates of funds the project sponsor intends to obtain from other sources but which have not yet been committed to the project. In the case of homeownership projects where the sponsor extends permanent financing to the homebuyer, the sponsor's cash contribution shall include the present value of any payments the sponsor is to receive from the buyer, which shall include any cash down payment from the buyer, plus the present value of any purchase note the sponsor holds on the unit. If the note carries a market interest rate commensurate with the credit quality of the buyer, the present value of the note equals the face value of the note. If the note carries an interest rate below the market rate, the present value of the note shall be determined using the market rate to discount the cash flows.
(iii)
Cash uses.
A project's cash uses are the actual outlay of cash needed to pay for materials, labor, and acquisition or other costs of completing the project. Cash costs do not include in-kind donations, voluntary professional labor or services, or sweat equity.
(4)
Project costs
—(i)
In general.
(A) Taking into consideration the geographic location of the project, development conditions, and other non-financial household or project characteristics, a Bank shall determine that a project's costs, as reflected in the project's development budget, are reasonable, in accordance with the Bank's project cost guidelines.
(B) For purposes of determining the reasonableness of a developer's fee for a project as a percentage of total development costs, a Bank may, in its discretion, include estimates of the market value of in-kind donations and volunteer professional labor or services (excluding the value of sweat equity) committed to the project as part of the total development costs.
(ii)
Cost of property and services provided by a member.
The purchase price of property or services, as reflected in the project's development budget, sold to the project by a member providing AHP subsidy to the project, or, in the case of property, upon which such member holds a mortgage or lien, may not exceed the market value of such property or services as of the date the purchase price was agreed upon. In the case of real estate owned property sold to a project by a member providing AHP subsidy to the project, or property sold to the project upon which the member holds a mortgage or lien, the market value of such property is deemed to be the “as-is” or “as-rehabilitated” value of the property, whichever is appropriate. That value shall be reflected in an independent appraisal of the property performed by a state certified or licensed appraiser, as defined in 12 CFR 564.2(j) and (k), within 6 months prior to the date the Bank disburses AHP subsidy to the project.
(5)
Financing costs.
The rate of interest, points, fees, and any other charges for all loans that are made for the project in conjunction with the AHP subsidy shall not exceed a reasonable market rate of interest, points, fees, and other charges for loans of similar maturity, terms, and risk.
(6)
Counseling costs.
Counseling costs, provided:
(i) Such costs are incurred in connection with counseling of homebuyers who actually purchase an AHP-assisted unit; and
(ii) The cost of the counseling has not been covered by another funding source, including the member.
(7)
Refinancing.
Refinancing of an existing single-family or multifamily mortgage loan, provided that the refinancing produces equity proceeds and such equity proceeds up to the amount of the AHP subsidy in the project shall be used only for the purchase, construction, or rehabilitation of housing units meeting the eligibility requirements of this part.
(8)
Calculation of AHP subsidy.
(i) Where an AHP direct subsidy is provided to a project to write down the interest rate on a loan extended by a member, sponsor, or other party to a project, the net present value of the interest foregone from making the loan below the lender's market interest rate shall be calculated as of the date the application for AHP subsidy is submitted to the Bank, and subject to adjustment under § 1291.30(d).
(ii) Where an AHP subsidized advance is provided to a project, the net present value of the interest revenue foregone from making a subsidized advance at a rate below the Bank's cost of funds shall be determined as of the earlier of the date of disbursement of the subsidized advance or the date prior to disbursement on which the Bank first manages the funding to support the subsidized advance through its asset/liability management system, or otherwise.
(b)
Prohibited uses of AHP subsidy.
AHP subsidy may not be used to pay for:
(1)
Certain prepayment fees.
Prepayment fees imposed by a Bank on a member for a subsidized advance that is prepaid, unless:
(i) The project is in financial distress that cannot be remedied through a project modification pursuant to § 1291.29;
(ii) The prepayment of the subsidized advance is necessary to retain the project's affordability and income targeting commitments;
(iii) Subsequent to such prepayment, the project will continue to comply with the terms of the approved AHP application and the requirements of this part for the duration of the original retention period;
(iv) Any unused AHP subsidy is returned to the Bank and made available for other AHP projects or households; and
(v) The amount of AHP subsidy used for the prepayment fee may not exceed the amount of the member's prepayment fee to the Bank;
(2)
Cancellation fees.
Cancellation fees and penalties imposed by a Bank on a member for a subsidized advance commitment that is canceled;
(3)
Processing fees.
Processing fees charged by members for providing AHP direct subsidies to a project; or
(4)
Reserves and certain expenses.
Capitalized reserves, periodic deposits to reserve accounts, operating expenses, or supportive services expenses.
(c)
Optional Bank district eligibility requirements.
A Bank may require a project receiving AHP subsidies to meet one or more of the following additional eligibility requirements adopted by the Bank's board of directors and included in its AHP Implementation Plan after consultation with its Advisory Council:
(1)
AHP subsidy limits.
A requirement that the amount of AHP subsidy requested for the project does not exceed limits established by the Bank as to the maximum amount of AHP subsidy available per member, per project sponsor, per project, or per project unit in a single AHP funding round. Each General Fund or Targeted Fund may contain up to all four of these optional AHP subsidy limits, each of which must apply to all applicants to the specific Fund. A Bank's AHP subsidy limit per member must be the same for each of its Funds and its AHP subsidy limit per project sponsor must be the same for each of its Funds, but a Bank's AHP
subsidy limit per project and per project unit may differ among the Funds.
(2)
Homebuyer or homeowner counseling.
A requirement that a household must complete a homebuyer or homeowner counseling program provided by, or based on one provided by, an organization recognized as experienced in homebuyer or homeowner counseling, respectively.
(d)
Applications to multiple Funds—subsidy amount.
If an application for a project is submitted to more than one Fund at the same time, the application for each Fund must be for the same amount of AHP subsidy.
[83 FR 61231, Nov. 28, 2018, as amended at 87 FR 32969, June 1, 2022]
§ 1291.25
Scoring methodologies.
(a)(1)
Written scoring methodologies.
A Bank shall establish a written scoring methodology for its General Fund and for any Targeted Fund setting forth the Bank's scoring point allocations as required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, scoring criteria adopted pursuant to the requirements of §§ 1291.26 and 1291.27, as applicable, and related definitions. The scoring methodology for each Fund may be different. A Bank shall not adopt scoring points allocations or scoring criteria for its General Fund and any Targeted Funds except as specifically authorized under this paragraph (a)(1) and §§ 1291.26 and 1291.27, respectively.
(2)
Scoring points allocations
—(i)
General Fund.
A Bank shall allocate 100 points among all of the scoring criteria adopted by the Bank for its General Fund pursuant to § 1291.26. The scoring criterion for targeting in § 1291.26(d) shall be allocated at least 20 points. The remaining scoring criteria shall be allocated at least 5 points each, except that if a Bank adopts the scoring criterion for home purchase by low- or moderate-income households in § 1291.26(c) as an optional scoring criterion, the Bank may allocate fewer than the full 5 points to it, with the remainder of such points allocated to one or a combination of the other scoring criteria in § 1291.26 other than to the scoring criterion for Bank district priorities in § 1291.26(h). If a Bank adopts a scoring criterion under its Bank district priorities for housing located in the Bank's district, the Bank may not allocate points to the scoring criterion in a way that excludes all out-of-district projects from its General Fund.
(ii)
Targeted Funds.
A Bank shall allocate 100 points among all of the scoring criteria adopted by the Bank for each Targeted Fund pursuant to § 1291.27. A Bank may not allocate more than 50 points to any one scoring criterion for a Targeted Fund.
(3)
Fixed-point and variable-point scoring criteria.
A Bank shall designate each scoring criterion as either a fixed-point or a variable-point criterion, defined as follows:
(i) Fixed-point scoring criteria are those that cannot be satisfied in varying degrees and are either satisfied or not, with the total number of points allocated to the criterion awarded by the Bank to an application meeting the criterion; and
(ii) Variable-point criteria are those where there are varying degrees to which an application can satisfy the criteria, with the number of points that may be awarded to an application for meeting the criterion varying, depending on the extent to which the application satisfies the criterion, based on a fixed scale or on a scale relative to the other applications being scored. A Bank shall designate the targeting scoring criterion in § 1291.26(d) as a variable-point criterion.
(b)
Satisfaction of scoring criteria.
A Bank shall award scoring points to applications to a particular Fund based on satisfaction of the scoring criteria in the Bank's scoring methodology for that Fund.
(c)
Scoring tied applications.
A Bank shall establish and implement, as necessary, a scoring tie-breaker policy to address the case of two or more applications to its General Fund or any Targeted Fund receiving identical scores in the same AHP funding round and there is insufficient AHP subsidy to approve all of the tied applications but sufficient subsidy to approve one of them. A Bank shall meet the following requirements in establishing its scoring tie-breaker policy:
(1) The Bank shall consult with its Advisory Council prior to adoption of its policy;
(2) The Bank shall adopt the policy in advance of an AHP funding round and include it in its AHP Implementation Plan;
(3) The policy shall include the methodology used to break a scoring tie, which may differ for each Fund, and which shall be selected from the particular Fund's scoring criteria adopted in the Bank's AHP Implementation Plan;
(4) The scoring tie-breaker methodology shall be reasonable, transparent, verifiable, and impartial;
(5) The scoring tie-breaker methodology shall be used solely to break a scoring tie and may not affect the eligibility of the applications, including financial feasibility, or their scores and resultant rankings;
(6) The Bank shall approve a tied application as an alternate pursuant to § 1291.28(b) if the application does not prevail under the scoring tie-breaker methodology, or if the application is tied with another application but requested more subsidy than the amount of AHP funds that remain to be awarded, if the Bank has a written policy to approve alternates for funding under the applicable Fund; and
(7) The Bank shall document in writing its analysis and results for each use of the scoring tie-breaker methodology.
[83 FR 61231, Nov. 28, 2018, as amended at 87 FR 32969, June 1, 2022]
§ 1291.26
Scoring criteria for the General Fund.
A Bank shall adopt in its scoring methodology for its General Fund all of the following categories of scoring criteria, including at least one housing need under each of paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section, except that a Bank is not required to adopt the scoring criterion for homeownership by low- or moderate-income households in paragraph (c) of this section if the Bank allocates at least 10 percent of its required annual AHP contribution to any Homeownership Set-Aside Programs, and a Bank is not required to adopt the scoring criterion for Bank district priorities in paragraph (h) of this section:
(a)
Use of donated or conveyed government-owned or other properties.
The financing of housing using a significant proportion, as defined by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan, of:
(1) Land or units donated or conveyed by the federal government or any agency or instrumentality thereof; or
(2) Land or units donated or conveyed by any other party for an amount significantly below the fair market value of the property, as defined by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan.
(b)
Sponsorship by a not-for-profit organization or government entity.
Project sponsorship by a not-for-profit organization, a state or political subdivision of a state, a state housing agency, a local housing authority, a Native American Tribe, an Alaskan Native Village, or the government entity for Native Hawaiian Home Lands.
(c)
Home purchase by low- or moderate-income households.
The financing of home purchases by low- or moderate-income households.
(d)
Income targeting.
The extent to which a project provides housing for very low- and low- or moderate-income households, as follows:
(1)
Rental projects.
An application for a rental project shall be awarded the maximum number of points available under this scoring criterion if 60 percent or more of the units in the project are reserved for occupancy by households with incomes at or below 50 percent of the median income for the area. Applications for projects with less than 60 percent of the units reserved for occupancy by households with incomes at or below 50 percent of the median income for the area shall be awarded points on a declining scale based on the percentage of units in a project that are reserved for households with incomes at or below 50 percent of the median income for the area, and on the percentage of the remaining units reserved for households with incomes at or below 80 percent of the median income for the area.
(2)
Owner-occupied projects.
Applications for owner-occupied projects shall be awarded points based on a declining scale to be determined by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan, taking into consideration percentages of units and targeted income levels.
(3)
Separate scoring.
For purposes of this scoring criterion, applications for
owner-occupied projects and rental projects may be scored separately.
(e)
Underserved communities and populations.
The financing of housing for underserved communities or populations, by addressing one or more of the following specific housing needs:
(1)
Housing for homeless households.
The financing of rental housing, excluding overnight shelters, reserving at least 20 percent of the units for homeless households, the creation of transitional housing for homeless households permitting a minimum of 6 months occupancy, or the creation of permanent owner-occupied housing reserving at least 20 percent of the units for homeless households, with the term “homeless households” defined by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan.
(2)
Housing for special needs populations.
The financing of housing in which at least 20 percent of the units are reserved for households with specific special needs, such as: The elderly; persons with disabilities; formerly incarcerated persons; persons recovering from physical abuse or alcohol or drug abuse; victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault or stalking; persons with HIV/AIDS; or unaccompanied youth; or the financing of housing that is visitable by persons with physical disabilities who are not occupants of such housing. A Bank may, in its discretion, adopt a requirement that projects provide supportive services, or access to supportive services, for specific special needs populations identified by the Bank in order for the project to receive scoring points under this paragraph (e)(2).
(3)
Housing for other targeted populations.
The financing of housing in which at least 20 percent of the units are reserved for households specifically in need of housing, such as agricultural workers, military veterans, Native Americans, households requiring large units, or kinship care households in which children are in the care of cohabitating relatives, such as grandparents, aunts or uncles, or cohabitating close family friends.
(4)
Housing in rural areas.
The financing of housing located in a rural area, as defined by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan.
(5)
Rental housing for extremely low-income households.
The financing of rental housing in which a minimum percentage of the units, as defined by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan, are reserved for extremely low-income households. Points awarded under this criterion shall be awarded in addition to any points awarded for income targeting under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, such that the points awarded to a project under this criterion and the income targeting criterion, combined, may exceed the maximum number of possible points awarded under the income targeting criterion.
(6)
Other.
The financing of other housing addressing specific housing needs of underserved communities or populations as FHFA may provide by guidance.
(f)
Creating economic opportunity.
The financing of housing that facilitates economic opportunity for the residents by addressing one or more of the following specific housing needs:
(1)
Promotion of empowerment.
The provision of housing in combination with a program offering services that assist residents in attaining life skills or moving toward better economic opportunities, such as: Employment; education; training; homebuyer, homeownership or tenant counseling; child care; adult daycare services; afterschool care; tutoring; health services, including mental health and behavioral health services; resident involvement in decision making affecting the creation or operation of the project; or workforce preparation and integration.
(2)
Residential economic diversity.
The financing of either affordable housing in a high opportunity area, or mixed-income housing in an area designated by the Bank, with those terms defined and area designated by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan.
(3)
Other.
The financing of other housing that facilitates economic opportunity as FHFA may provide by guidance.
(g)
Community stability, including affordable housing preservation.
The promotion of community stability, such as by preserving affordable housing, rehabilitating vacant or abandoned properties, or being an integral part of a community revitalization or economic
development strategy approved by a unit of state or local government or instrumentality thereof, and not displacing low- or moderate-income households, or if such displacement will occur, assuring that such households will be assisted to minimize the impact of such displacement.
(h)
Bank district priorities.
The satisfaction of one or more housing needs in the Bank's district, as defined by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan, that the Bank has not otherwise adopted under this section.
§ 1291.27
Scoring criteria for Targeted Funds.
A Bank shall adopt in its scoring methodology for each Targeted Fund established by the Bank at least three different scoring criteria, as determined by the Bank in its discretion, that allow the Bank to select applications that meet the specific affordable housing need or needs being addressed by the Targeted Fund.
§ 1291.28
Approval of AHP applications under the General Fund and Targeted Funds.
(a)
Approval of AHP applications.
Subject to the requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, a Bank shall approve applications for AHP subsidy under its General Fund and any Targeted Funds that meet all of the applicable AHP eligibility requirements in this part in descending order, starting with the highest scoring application until the total funding amount for the particular AHP funding round, except for any amount insufficient to fund the next highest scoring application, has been approved.
(b)
AHP application alternates.
For the General Fund and any Targeted Funds, the Bank also may, in its discretion, approve a specified number, as determined by the Bank, of the next highest scoring applications as alternates eligible for funding, and may approve any tied applications as alternates eligible for funding pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, if any previously committed AHP subsidies become available, pursuant to a written policy on approving alternates for funding established by the Bank and included in the Bank's AHP Implementation Plan. If a Bank has established such a policy for approving alternates for funding and sufficient previously committed AHP subsidies become available within one year of application approval, the Bank shall approve the designated alternates for funding within that one-year period.
(c)
Tied applications.
(1) Where two or more applications to a General Fund or Targeted Fund have identical scores in the same AHP funding round and there is insufficient AHP subsidy to approve all of the tied applications but sufficient subsidy to approve one of them, a Bank shall approve the tied application that prevails under the Bank's scoring tie-breaker methodology in its policy adopted pursuant to § 1291.25(c).
(2) A tied application that does not prevail under the Bank's scoring tie-breaker methodology, or is tied with another application but requested more subsidy than the amount of AHP funds that remain to be awarded under the Fund, shall be approved as an alternate for funding if the Bank has a written policy to approve alternates for funding under the Fund.
(d)
Applications to multiple Funds—approval under one Fund.
If an application for the same project is submitted to more than one Fund at a Bank in a calendar year and the application scores high enough to be approved under each Fund, the Bank shall approve the application under only one of the Funds pursuant to the Bank's policy established in its AHP Implementation Plan.
(e)
No delegation.
A Bank's board of directors may not delegate to Bank officers or other Bank employees the responsibility to approve or disapprove the AHP subsidy applications, as well as any alternates under the Bank's General Fund and any Targeted Fund if the Bank has a written policy to approve alternates for funding under such Fund.
§ 1291.29
Modifications of approved AHP applications.
(a)
Modification procedure.
If, prior to or after final disbursement of funds to a project from all funding sources, in order to remedy noncompliance or receive additional subsidy, there is or will be a change in the project that
would change the score that the project application received in the AHP funding round in which it was originally scored and approved, had the changed facts been operative at that time, a Bank shall approve in writing a request for a modification to the terms of the approved application, provided that:
(1) The Bank first requests that the project sponsor or owner make a reasonable effort to cure any noncompliance within a reasonable period of time, and the noncompliance could not be cured within a reasonable period of time;
(2) The project, incorporating any such changes, would meet the eligibility requirements of this part;
(3) The application, as reflective of such changes, continues to score high enough to have been approved in the AHP funding round in which the application was originally scored and approved by the Bank, which is as high as the lowest ranking alternate approved for funding by the Bank if the Bank has a written policy to approve alternates for funding; and
(4) There is good cause for the modification, which may not be solely remediation of noncompliance, and the analysis and justification for the modification, including why a cure of noncompliance was not successful or attempted, are documented by the Bank in writing.
(b)
AHP subsidy increases; no delegation
—(1)
AHP subsidy increases.
A Bank's board of directors may, in its discretion, approve or disapprove requests for modifications involving an increase in AHP subsidy in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
No delegation.
The authority to approve or disapprove requests for modifications involving an increase in AHP subsidy shall not be delegated by the Bank's board of directors to Bank officers or other Bank employees.
§ 1291.30
Procedures for funding.
(a)
Disbursement of AHP subsidies to members.
(1) A Bank may disburse AHP subsidies only to institutions that are members of the Bank at the time they request a draw-down of the subsidies.
(2) If an institution with an approved application for AHP subsidy loses its membership in a Bank, the Bank may disburse AHP subsidies to a member of such Bank to which the institution has transferred its obligations under the approved AHP application, or the Bank may disburse AHP subsidies through another Bank to a member of that Bank that has assumed the institution's obligations under the approved AHP application.
(b)
Progress towards use of AHP subsidy.
A Bank shall establish and implement policies, including time limits, for determining whether progress is being made towards draw-down and use of AHP subsidies by approved projects, and whether to cancel AHP application approvals for lack of such progress. If a Bank cancels any AHP application approvals due to lack of such progress, the Bank shall make the AHP subsidies available for other AHP-eligible projects or households.
(c)
Compliance upon disbursement of AHP subsidies.
A Bank shall establish and implement policies for determining, prior to its initial disbursement of AHP subsidy for an approved project, and prior to each subsequent disbursement, that the project meets the eligibility requirements of this part and all obligations committed to in the approved AHP application. If a Bank cancels any AHP application approvals due to noncompliance with eligibility requirements of this part, the Bank shall make the AHP subsidies available for other AHP-eligible projects or households.
(d)
Changes in approved AHP subsidy amount where a direct subsidy is used to write down prior to closing the principal amount or interest rate on a loan.
If a member is approved to receive AHP direct subsidy to write down prior to closing the principal amount or the interest rate on a loan to a project, and the amount of AHP subsidy required to maintain the debt service cost for the loan decreases from the amount of AHP subsidy initially approved by the Bank due to a decrease in market interest rates between the time of approval and the time the lender commits to the interest rate to finance the project, the Bank shall reduce the AHP subsidy amount accordingly. If market
interest rates rise between the time of approval and the time the lender commits to the interest rate to finance the project, the Bank, in its discretion, may increase the AHP subsidy amount accordingly.
(e)
AHP outlay adjustment.
If a Bank reduces the amount of AHP subsidy approved for a project, the amount of such reduction shall be returned to the Bank's AHP fund. If a Bank increases the amount of AHP subsidy approved for a project, the amount of such increase shall be drawn first from any currently uncommitted or repaid AHP subsidies and then from the Bank's required AHP contribution for the next year.
(f)
Project sponsor notification of re-use of repaid AHP direct subsidy.
Prior to disbursement by a project sponsor of AHP direct subsidy repaid to and retained by such project sponsor pursuant to a subsidy re-use program authorized by the Bank under § 1291.64(b), the project sponsor shall provide written notice to the member and the Bank of its intent to disburse the repaid AHP subsidy to a household satisfying the requirements of this part and the commitments made in the approved AHP application.
§ 1291.31
Lending and re-lending of AHP direct subsidy by revolving loan funds.
Pursuant to written policies established by a Bank's board of directors after consultation with its Advisory Council, a Bank, in its discretion, may provide AHP direct subsidy under its General Fund or any Targeted Funds for eligible projects and households involving both the lending of the subsidy and subsequent lending of subsidy principal and interest repayments by a revolving loan fund, provided the following requirements are met:
(a)
Submission of application.
(1) An application for AHP subsidy under this section shall include the revolving loan fund's criteria for the initial lending of the subsidy, identification of and information on a specific proposed AHP project if required in the Bank's discretion, the revolving loan fund's criteria for subsequent lending of subsidy principal and interest repayments, and any other information required by the Bank.
(2) The information in the application shall be sufficient for the Bank to:
(
i
) Determine that the criteria for the initial lending of the subsidy, the specific proposed project if applicable, and the criteria for subsequent lending of subsidy principal and interest repayments, meet the eligibility requirements of § 1291.23; and
(ii) Evaluate the criteria for the initial lending of the subsidy, and the specific proposed project if applicable, pursuant to the scoring methodology established by the Bank pursuant to §§ 1291.25, 1291.26, and 1291.27, as applicable.
(b)
Review of application.
A Bank shall review the application for AHP subsidy to determine that the criteria for the initial lending of the subsidy, the specific proposed project if applicable, and the criteria for subsequent lending of subsidy principal and interest repayments, meet the eligibility requirements of § 1291.23, and shall evaluate the criteria for the initial lending of the subsidy and the specific proposed project, if applicable, pursuant to the scoring methodology established by the Bank pursuant to §§ 1291.25, 1291.26, and 1291.27, as applicable.
(c)
Initial lending of subsidy.
(1) The revolving loan fund's initial lending of the AHP subsidy shall meet the eligibility requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, shall be to projects or households meeting the commitments in the approved application for AHP subsidy, and shall be subject to the requirements in §§ 1291.15 and 1291.50, respectively.
(2) If an owner-occupied unit or project funded under this paragraph (c) is in noncompliance with the commitments in the approved AHP application, or is sold or refinanced prior to the end of the applicable AHP retention period, the required amount of AHP subsidy shall be repaid to the revolving loan fund in accordance with §§ 1291.15(a)(7), 1291.15(a)(8), and 1291.60, and the revolving loan fund shall re-lend such repaid subsidy, excluding the amounts of AHP subsidy principal already repaid to the revolving loan fund, to another owner-occupied unit or project meeting the initial lending
requirements of this paragraph (c) for the remainder of the retention period.
(d)
Subsequent lending of AHP subsidy principal and interest repayments.
(1) AHP subsidy principal and interest repayments received by the revolving loan fund from the initial lending of the AHP direct subsidy shall be re-lent by the revolving loan fund in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph (d), except that the revolving loan fund, in its discretion, may provide part or all of such repayments as nonrepayable grants to eligible projects in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph (d).
(2) The revolving loan fund's subsequent lending of AHP subsidy principal and interest repayments shall be for the purchase, construction, or rehabilitation of owner-occupied projects for households with incomes at or below 80 percent of the median income for the area, or of rental projects where at least 20 percent of the units are occupied by and affordable for households with incomes at or below 50 percent of the median income for the area, and shall meet all other eligibility requirements of this paragraph (d).
(3) A Bank may, in its discretion, require the revolving loan fund's subsequent lending of subsidy principal and interest repayments to be subject to retention period, monitoring, and recapture requirements, as defined by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan.
(e)
Return of unused AHP subsidy.
The revolving loan fund shall return to the Bank any AHP subsidy that will not be used according to the requirements in this section.
§ 1291.32
Use of AHP subsidy in loan pools.
Pursuant to written policies established by a Bank's board of directors after consultation with its Advisory Council, a Bank, in its discretion, may provide AHP subsidy under its General Fund or any Targeted Funds for the origination of first mortgage or rehabilitation loans with subsidized interest rates to AHP-eligible households through a purchase commitment by an entity that will purchase and pool the loans, provided the following requirements are met:
(a)
Eligibility requirements.
The loan pool sponsor's use of the AHP subsidies shall meet the requirements under this section, and shall not be used for the purpose of providing liquidity to the originator or holder of the loans, or paying the loan pool's operating or secondary market transaction costs.
(b)
Forward commitment.
(1) The loan pool sponsor shall purchase the loans pursuant to a forward commitment that identifies the loans to be originated with interest-rate reductions as specified in the approved application for AHP subsidy to households with incomes at or below 80 percent of the median income for the area. Both initial purchases of loans for the AHP loan pool and subsequent purchases of loans to substitute for repaid loans in the pool shall be made pursuant to the terms of such forward commitment and subject to time limits on the use of the AHP subsidy as specified by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan and the Bank's agreement with the loan pool sponsor, which shall not exceed one year from the date of approval of the AHP application.
(2) As an alternative to using a forward commitment, the loan pool sponsor may purchase an initial round of loans that were not originated pursuant to an AHP-specific forward commitment, provided that the entities from which the loans were purchased are required to use the proceeds from the initial loan purchases within time limits on the use of the AHP subsidy as specified by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan and the Bank's agreement with the loan pool sponsor, which shall not exceed one year from the date of approval of the AHP application. The proceeds shall be used by such entities to assist households that are income-eligible under the approved AHP application during subsequent rounds of lending, and such assistance shall be provided in the form of a below-market AHP-subsidized interest rate as specified in the approved AHP application.
(c) Each AHP-assisted owner-occupied unit and rental project receiving AHP direct subsidy or a subsidized advance shall be subject to the requirements of §§ 1291.15, 1291.50, and 1291.60, respectively.
(d) Where AHP direct subsidy is being used to buy down the interest rate of a loan or loans from a member or other party, the loan pool sponsor shall use the full amount of the AHP direct subsidy to buy down the interest rate on a permanent basis at the time of closing on such loan or loans.

# Subpart D—Homeownership Set-Aside Programs
§ 1291.40
Establishment of programs.
A Bank may establish, in its discretion, one or more Homeownership Set-Aside Programs pursuant to the requirements of this part.
§ 1291.41
Eligible applicants.
A Bank shall accept applications for AHP direct subsidy under its Homeownership Set-Aside Programs only from institutions that are members of the Bank at the time the application is submitted to the Bank.
§ 1291.42
Eligibility requirements.
A Bank's Homeownership Set-Aside Programs shall meet the eligibility requirements set forth in this section. A Bank may not adopt additional eligibility requirements for its Homeownership Set-Aside Programs except for eligible households pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(a)
Member allocation criteria.
AHP direct subsidies shall be provided to members pursuant to allocation criteria established by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan.
(b)
Eligible households.
Members shall provide AHP direct subsidies only to households that:
(1) Have incomes at or below 80 percent of the median income for the area at the time the household is accepted for enrollment by the member in the Bank's Homeownership Set-Aside Programs, with such time of enrollment by the member defined by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan;
(2) Complete a homebuyer or homeowner counseling program provided by, or based on one provided by, an organization experienced in homebuyer or homeowner counseling, in the case of households that are first-time homebuyers; and
(3) Are first-time homebuyers or households receiving AHP subsidy for owner-occupied rehabilitation, in the case of households receiving subsidy pursuant to the one-third set-aside funding allocation requirement in § 1291.12(b), and meet such other eligibility criteria that may be established by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan, such as a matching funds requirement, homebuyer or homeowner counseling requirement for households that are not first-time homebuyers, or criteria that give priority for the purchase or rehabilitation of housing in particular areas or as part of a disaster relief effort.
(c)
Maximum grant limit.
Members shall provide AHP direct subsidies to households as a grant, in an amount up to a maximum established by the Bank, not to exceed $22,000 per household, which limit shall adjust upward on an annual basis in accordance with increases in FHFA's House Price Index (HPI). In the event of a decrease in the HPI, the subsidy limit shall remain at its then-current amount until the HPI increases above the subsidy limit, at which point the subsidy limit shall adjust to that higher amount. FHFA will notify the Banks annually of the maximum subsidy limit, based on the HPI. A Bank may establish a different maximum grant limit, up to the maximum grant limit, for each Homeownership Set-Aside Program it establishes. A Bank's maximum grant limit for each such program shall be included in its AHP Implementation Plan, which limit shall apply to all households in the specific program for which it is established.
(d)
Eligible uses of AHP direct subsidy.
Households shall use the AHP direct subsidies to pay for down payment, closing cost, counseling, or rehabilitation assistance in connection with the household's purchase or rehabilitation of an owner-occupied unit, including a condominium or cooperative housing unit or manufactured housing, to be used as the household's primary residence.
(e)
Retention agreement.
An owner-occupied unit purchased, or purchased in conjunction with rehabilitation, using AHP direct subsidy, shall be subject to
a five-year retention agreement described in § 1291.15(a)(7).
(f)
Financial or other concessions.
The Bank may, in its discretion, require members and other lenders to provide financial or other concessions, as defined by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan, to households in connection with providing the AHP direct subsidy or financing to the household.
(g)
Financing costs.
The rate of interest, points, fees, and any other charges for all loans made in conjunction with the AHP direct subsidy shall not exceed a reasonable market rate of interest, points, fees, and other charges for loans of similar maturity, terms, and risk.
(h)
Counseling costs.
The AHP direct subsidies may be used to pay for counseling costs only where:
(1) Such costs are incurred in connection with counseling of homebuyers who actually purchase an AHP-assisted unit; and
(2) The cost of the counseling has not been covered by another funding source, including the member.
(i)
Cash back to household.
A member may provide cash back to a household at closing on the mortgage loan in an amount not exceeding $250, as determined by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan, and a member shall use any AHP direct subsidy exceeding such amount that is beyond what is needed at closing for closing costs and the approved mortgage amount as a credit to reduce the principal of the mortgage loan or as a credit toward the household's monthly payments on the mortgage loan.
§ 1291.43
Approval of AHP applications.
A Bank shall approve applications for AHP direct subsidy under its Homeownership Set-Aside Programs in accordance with the Bank's criteria governing the allocation of funds.
§ 1291.44
Procedures for funding.
(a)
Disbursement of AHP direct subsidies to members.
(1) A Bank may disburse AHP direct subsidies under its Homeownership Set-Aside Programs only to institutions that are members of the Bank at the time they request a draw-down of the subsidies.
(2) If an institution with an approved application for AHP direct subsidy loses its membership in a Bank, the Bank may disburse AHP direct subsidies to a member of such Bank to which the institution has transferred its obligations under the approved AHP application, or the Bank may disburse AHP direct subsidies through another Bank to a member of that Bank that has assumed the institution's obligations under the approved AHP application.
(b)
Reservation of Homeownership Set-Aside Program subsidies.
A Bank shall establish and implement policies for reservation of set-aside subsidies for households enrolled in the Bank's Homeownership Set-Aside Programs. The policies shall provide that set-aside subsidies be reserved no more than two years in advance of the Bank's time limit in its AHP Implementation Plan for draw-down and use of the subsidies by the household and the reservation of subsidies be made from the allocation for the Homeownership Set-Aside Programs for the year in which the Bank makes the reservation.
(c)
Progress towards use of AHP direct subsidy.
A Bank shall establish and implement policies, including time limits, for determining whether progress is being made towards draw-down and use of the AHP direct subsidies by eligible households, and whether to cancel AHP application approvals for lack of such progress. If a Bank cancels any AHP application approvals due to lack of such progress, it shall make the AHP direct subsidies available for other applicants for AHP direct subsidies under the Homeownership Set-Aside Programs or for other AHP-eligible projects.

# Subpart E—Monitoring
§ 1291.50
Monitoring under the General Fund and Targeted Funds.
(a)
Initial monitoring policies for owner-occupied and rental projects.
A Bank shall adopt written policies pursuant to which the Bank shall monitor each AHP owner-occupied project and rental project approved under its General Fund and any Targeted Funds prior to, and within a reasonable period of time
after, project completion to verify, at a minimum, satisfaction of the requirements in this section.
(1)
Satisfactory progress.
The Bank shall determine that:
(i) The project is making satisfactory progress towards completion, in compliance with the commitments made in the approved AHP application, Bank policies, and the requirements of this part; and
(ii) Following completion of the project, satisfactory progress is being made towards occupancy of the project by eligible households.
(2)
Project sponsor or owner certification, rent roll and other documentation; backup and other project documentation.
Within a reasonable period of time after project completion, the Bank shall review a certification from the project sponsor or owner, the project rent roll (which includes household incomes and rents), and any other documentation to verify that the project meets the following requirements, at a minimum:
(
i
) The AHP subsidies were used for eligible purposes according to the commitments made in the approved AHP application;
(ii) The household incomes and rents comply with the income targeting and rent commitments made in the approved AHP application;
(iii) The project's costs were reasonable in accordance with the Bank's project cost guidelines, and the AHP subsidies were necessary for the completion of the project as currently structured, as determined pursuant to § 1291.24(a)(4);
(iv) Each AHP-assisted unit of an owner-occupied project and rental project is subject to an AHP retention agreement that meets the requirements of § 1291.15(a)(7) and (8), respectively; and
(v) The services and activities committed in the approved AHP application have been provided.
(3)
Back-up and other project documentation.
The Bank's written monitoring policies shall include requirements for:
(i) Bank review within a reasonable period of time after project completion of back-up project documentation regarding household incomes and rents (not including the rent roll) maintained by the project sponsor or owner, except for projects that received funds from other federal, state or local government entities whose programs meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section as specified in separate FHFA guidance, or projects that have also been allocated LIHTC; and
(ii) Maintenance and Bank review of other project documentation in the Bank's discretion.
(4)
Sampling plan.
The Bank shall not use a sampling plan to select the projects to be monitored under this paragraph (a), but may use a reasonable risk-based sampling plan to review the back-up project documentation.
(b)
Long-term monitoring—reliance on other governmental monitoring for certain rental projects.
For completed AHP rental projects that also received funds from federal, state, or local government entities other than LIHTC, a Bank may, in its discretion, for purposes of long-term AHP monitoring under its General Fund and any Targeted Funds, rely on the monitoring by such entities of the income targeting and rent requirements applicable under their programs, provided that the Bank can show that:
(1) The compliance profiles regarding income targeting, rent, and retention period requirements of the AHP and the other programs are substantively equivalent;
(2) The entity has demonstrated and continues to demonstrate its ability to monitor the project;
(3) The entity agrees to provide reports to the Bank on the project's incomes and rents for the full 15-year AHP retention period; and
(4) The Bank reviews the reports from the monitoring entity to confirm that they comply with the Bank's monitoring policies.
(c)
Long-term monitoring policies for rental projects.
In cases where a Bank does not rely on monitoring by a federal, state, or local government entity pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, pursuant to written policies established by the Bank, the Bank shall monitor completed AHP rental projects approved under its General Fund and any Targeted Funds, commencing in
the second year after project completion through the AHP 15-year retention period, to verify, at a minimum, satisfaction of the requirements in this section.
(1)
Annual project sponsor or owner certifications; backup and other project documentation.
A Bank's written monitoring policies shall include requirements for:
(i) Bank review of all annual certifications to the Bank by project sponsors or owners, other than sponsors or owners of projects that have been allocated LIHTCs, that household incomes and rents are in compliance with the commitments made in the approved AHP application during the AHP 15-year retention period, along with information on the ongoing financial viability of the project, including whether the project is current on its property taxes and loan payments, its vacancy rate, and whether it is in compliance with its commitments to other funding sources;
(ii) Bank review of back-up project documentation regarding household incomes and rents, including the rent rolls, maintained by the project sponsor or owner, except for projects that also received funds from other federal, state or local government entities whose programs meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section as specified in separate FHFA guidance, or projects that have been allocated LIHTC, provided that the Bank shall review any LIHTC noncompliance notices received from project owners pursuant to § 1291.15(a)(5)(ii) during the AHP 15-year retention period; and
(iii) Maintenance and Bank review of other project documentation in the Banks' discretion.
(2)
Risk factors and other monitoring
—(i)
Risk factors; other monitoring.
A Bank's written monitoring policies shall take into account risk factors such as the amount of AHP subsidy in the project, type of project, size of project, location of project, sponsor experience and performance, and any monitoring of the project provided by a federal, state, or local government entity.
(ii)
Risk-based sampling plan.
A Bank may use a reasonable, risk-based sampling plan to select the rental projects to be monitored under this paragraph (c), and to review the back-up and any other project documentation. The risk-based sampling plan and its basis shall be in writing.
(d)
Annual adjustment of targeting commitments.
For purposes of determining compliance with the targeting commitments in an approved AHP application for both initial and long-term AHP monitoring purposes under a Bank's General Fund and any Targeted Funds, such commitments shall be considered to adjust annually according to the current applicable median income data. A rental unit may continue to count toward meeting the targeting commitment of an approved AHP application as long as the rent charged to a household remains affordable, as defined in § 1291.1, for the household occupying the unit.
[83 FR 61231, Nov. 28, 2018, as amended at 87 FR 32969, June 1, 2022]
§ 1291.51
Monitoring under Homeownership Set-Aside Programs.
(a)
Adoption and implementation.
Pursuant to written policies adopted by a Bank, the Bank shall monitor compliance with the requirements of its Homeownership Set-Aside Programs, including monitoring to determine, at a minimum, whether:
(1) The AHP subsidy was provided to households meeting all applicable eligibility requirements in § 1291.42(b) and the Bank's Homeownership Set-Aside Program policies; and
(2) All other applicable eligibility requirements in § 1291.42 and the Bank's Homeownership Set-Aside Program policies are met, including that the AHP-assisted units are subject to retention agreements, as required under § 1291.15(a)(7), where the AHP subsidy was used for purchase of the unit, or for purchase of the unit in conjunction with rehabilitation.
(b)
Member certifications; back-up and other documentation.
The Bank's written monitoring policies shall include requirements for:
(1) Bank review of certifications by members to the Bank, prior to disbursement of the AHP subsidy, that the subsidy will be provided in compliance with all applicable eligibility requirements in § 1291.42;
(2) Bank review of back-up documentation regarding household incomes maintained by the member; and
(3) Maintenance and Bank review of other documentation in the Bank's discretion.
(c)
Sampling plan.
The Bank may use a reasonable sampling plan to select the households to be monitored, and to review the back-up and any other documentation received by the Bank, but not the member certifications required in paragraph (b) of this section. The sampling plan and its basis shall be in writing.

# Subpart F—Remedial Actions for Noncompliance
§ 1291.60
Remedial actions for project noncompliance.
(a)
Scope.
This section sets forth the requirements applicable to the Banks in the event of noncompliance by an AHP-assisted project with the commitments made in its application for AHP subsidies and the requirements of this part, including any use of AHP subsidy by the project sponsor or owner for purposes other than those committed to in the AHP application. This section does not apply to individual AHP-assisted households or to the sale or refinancing by such households of their homes.
(b)
Elimination of project noncompliance
—(1)
Cure.
In the event of project noncompliance, the Bank shall request that the project sponsor or owner make a reasonable effort to cure the noncompliance within a reasonable period of time. If the noncompliance cannot be cured within a reasonable period of time, the requirements for project modification in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall apply. If the noncompliance is cured within a reasonable period of time, the Bank shall not require the project sponsor or owner to repay AHP subsidy to the Bank.
(2)
Project modification.
If the project sponsor or owner cannot cure the noncompliance within a reasonable period of time, the Bank shall determine whether the circumstances of the noncompliance can be eliminated through a modification of the terms of the AHP application pursuant to § 1291.29. When the circumstances of the noncompliance can be eliminated through a modification, the Bank shall approve the modification and shall not require the project sponsor or owner to repay AHP subsidy to the Bank.
(c)
Reasonable collection efforts
—(1)
Demand for repayment.
If the circumstances of a project's noncompliance cannot be eliminated through a cure or modification, the Bank, or the member if delegated the responsibility, shall make a demand on the project sponsor or owner for repayment of the full amount of the AHP subsidy not used in compliance with the commitments in the AHP application or the requirements of this part (plus interest, if appropriate). If the noncompliance is occupancy by households with incomes exceeding the income-targeting commitments in the AHP application, the amount of AHP subsidy due is calculated based on the number of units in noncompliance, the length of the noncompliance, and the portion of the AHP subsidy attributable to the noncompliant units.
(2)
Settlement.
(i) If the demand for repayment of the full amount due is unsuccessful, the Bank, or the member if delegated the responsibility and in consultation with the Bank, shall make reasonable efforts to collect the subsidy from the project sponsor or owner, which may include settlement for less than the full amount due, taking into account factors such as the financial capacity of the project sponsor or owner, assets securing the AHP subsidy, other assets of the project sponsor or owner, the degree of culpability of the project sponsor or owner, and the extent of the Bank's or member's collection efforts.
(ii) The settlement with the project sponsor or owner must be supported by sufficient documentation showing that the sum agreed to be repaid under the settlement is reasonably justified, based on the facts and circumstances of the noncompliance, including any factors in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section that were considered in reaching the settlement.
§ 1291.61
Recovery of subsidy for member noncompliance.
A Bank shall recover from a member the amount of any AHP subsidy (plus
interest, if appropriate) not used in compliance with the commitments in the member's AHP application or the requirements of this part as a result of the actions or omissions of the member.
§ 1291.62
Bank reimbursement of AHP fund.
(a)
By the Bank.
A Bank shall reimburse its AHP fund in the amount of any AHP subsidies (plus interest, if appropriate) not used in compliance with the commitments in an AHP application or the requirements of this part as a result of the actions or omissions of the Bank.
(b)
By FHFA order.
FHFA may order a Bank to reimburse its AHP fund in an appropriate amount upon determining that:
(1) The Bank has failed to reimburse its AHP fund as required under paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) The Bank has failed to recover the full amount of AHP subsidy due from a project sponsor, project owner, or member pursuant to the requirements of §§ 1291.60 and 1291.61, and has not shown that such failure is reasonably justified, considering factors such as those in § 1291.60(c)(2)(i).
§ 1291.63
Suspension and debarment.
(a)
At a Bank's initiative.
A Bank may suspend or debar a member, project sponsor, or project owner from participation in the Program if such party shows a pattern of noncompliance, or engages in a single instance of flagrant noncompliance, with the terms of an approved application for AHP subsidy or the requirements of this part.
(b)
At FHFA's initiative.
FHFA may order a Bank to suspend or debar a member, project sponsor, or project owner from participation in the Program if such party shows a pattern of noncompliance, or engages in a single instance of flagrant noncompliance, with the terms of an approved application for AHP subsidy or the requirements of this part.
§ 1291.64
Use of repaid AHP subsidies.
(a)
Use of repaid AHP subsidies for other AHP-eligible projects or households.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, amounts of AHP subsidy, including any interest, repaid to a Bank pursuant to this part shall be made available by the Bank for other AHP-eligible projects or households.
(b)
Re-use of repaid AHP direct subsidies in same project
AHP direct subsidy, including any interest, repaid to a member or project sponsor, as applicable, under a Bank's General Fund and any Targeted Funds may be repaid by such parties to the Bank for subsequent disbursement to and re-use by such parties, or retained by such parties for subsequent re-use, as authorized by the Bank, in its discretion, after consultation with its Advisory Council, in its AHP Implementation Plan, provided all of the following requirements are satisfied:
(1) The member or the project sponsor originally provided the AHP direct subsidy as down payment, closing cost, rehabilitation, or interest rate buy down assistance to an eligible household for purchase, or for purchase in conjunction with rehabilitation, of an owner-occupied unit pursuant to an approved AHP application;
(2) The AHP direct subsidy, including any interest, was repaid to the member or project sponsor as a result of a sale, transfer, or assignment of title or deed of the unit prior to the end of the retention period to a subsequent purchaser that is not a low- or moderate-income household; and
(3) The repaid AHP direct subsidy is made available by the member or project sponsor, within the period of time specified by the Bank in its AHP Implementation Plan, to another AHP-eligible household for purchase, or for purchase in conjunction with rehabilitation, of an owner-occupied unit in the same project in accordance with the terms of the approved AHP application.
[83 FR 61231, Nov. 28, 2018, as amended at 87 FR 32969, June 1, 2022]
§ 1291.65
Transfer of Program administration.
Without limitation on other remedies, FHFA, upon determining that a Bank has engaged in mismanagement of its Program, may designate another Bank to administer all or a portion of the first Bank's annual AHP contribution, for the benefit of the first Bank's
members, under such terms and conditions as FHFA may prescribe.

# Subpart G—Affordable Housing Reserve Fund
§ 1291.70
Affordable Housing Reserve Fund.
(a)
Deposits.
If a Bank fails to use or commit the full amount it is required to contribute to the Program in any year pursuant to § 1291.10(a), 90 percent of the unused or uncommitted amount shall be deposited by the Bank in an Affordable Housing Reserve Fund established and administered by FHFA. The remaining 10 percent of the unused and uncommitted amount retained by the Bank should be fully used or committed by the Bank during the following year, and any remaining portion shall be deposited in the Affordable Housing Reserve Fund.
(b)
Use or commitment of AHP funds.
Approval of applications for AHP funds from members sufficient to exhaust the amount a Bank is required to contribute pursuant to § 1291.10(a) shall constitute use or commitment of funds. Amounts remaining unused or uncommitted at year-end are deemed to be used or committed if, in combination with AHP funds that have been returned to the Bank or de-committed from canceled projects, they are insufficient to fund:
(1) AHP application alternates in the Bank's final funding round of the year for its General Fund or any Targeted Funds, if the Bank has a policy to approve alternates for funding under such Funds;
(2) Pending applications for funds under the Bank's Homeownership Set-Aside Programs, if any; and
(3) Project modifications for AHP subsidy increases approved by the Bank pursuant to the requirements of this part.
(c)
Carryover of insufficient amounts.
Such insufficient amounts as described in paragraph (b) of this section shall be carried over by the Bank for use or commitment in the following year in its General Fund, any Targeted Funds, or any Homeownership Set-Aside Programs.
Pt. 1292

# PART 1292—COMMUNITY INVESTMENT CASH ADVANCE PROGRAMS
Sec.
1292.1
Definitions.
1292.2
Scope.
1292.3
Purpose.
1292.4
Targeted Community Lending Plan.
1292.5
Community Investment Cash Advance Programs.
1292.6
Reporting.
1292.7
Documentation.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1430, 4511(b)(2).

# Source:
78 FR 2328, Jan. 11, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1292.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Champion Community
means a community which developed a strategic plan and applied for designation by either the Secretary of HUD or the Secretary of the USDA as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community, but was designated a Champion Community.
CICA program or Community Investment Cash Advance program
means:
(1) A Bank's AHP;
(2) A Bank's CIP;
(3) A Bank's RDF program or UDF program using any combination of the targeted beneficiaries and targeted income levels specified in § 1292.1 of this part; and
(4) Any other advance or grant program offered by a Bank using targeted beneficiaries and targeted income levels other than those specified in § 1292.1 of this part, established by the Bank with the prior approval of FHFA.
Economic development projects
means:
(1) Commercial, industrial, manufacturing, social service, and public facility projects and activities; and
(2) Public or private infrastructure projects, such as roads, utilities, and sewers.
Family
means one or more persons living in the same dwelling unit.
Housing projects
means projects or activities that involve the purchase, construction, rehabilitation or refinancing (subject to § 1292.5(c) of this part) of, or predevelopment financing for:
(1) Individual owner-occupied housing units, each of which is purchased or
owned by a family with an income at or below the targeted income level;
(2) Projects involving multiple units of owner-occupied housing in which at least 51% of the units are owned or are intended to be purchased by families with incomes at or below the targeted income level;
(3) Rental housing where at least 51% of the units in the project are occupied by, or the rents are affordable to, families with incomes at or below the targeted income level; or
(4) Manufactured housing parks where:
(i) At least 51% of the units in the project are occupied by, or the rents are affordable to, families with incomes at or below the targeted income level; or
(ii) The project is located in a neighborhood with a median income at or below the targeted income level.
Median income for the area—
(1)
Owner-occupied housing projects and economic development projects.
For purposes of owner-occupied housing projects and economic development projects, median income for the area means one or more of the following, as determined by the Bank:
(i) The median income for the area, as published annually by HUD;
(ii) The median income for the area obtained from the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council;
(iii) The applicable median family income, as determined under 26 U.S.C. 143(f) (Mortgage Revenue Bonds) and published by a State agency or instrumentality;
(iv) The median income for the area, as published by the USDA; or
(v) The median income for the area obtained from another public entity or a private source and approved by the Director, at the request of a Bank, for use under the Bank's CICA programs.
(2)
Rental housing projects.
For purposes of rental housing projects, median income for the area means one or more of the following, as determined by the Bank:
(i) The median income for the area, as published annually by HUD; or
(ii) The median income for the area obtained from the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council;
(iii) The median income for the area obtained from another public entity or a private source and approved by the Director, at the request of a Bank, for use under the Bank's CICA programs.
MSA
means a Metropolitan Statistical Area as designated by the Office of Management and Budget.
Neighborhood
means:
(1) A census tract or block numbering area;
(2) A unit of local government with a population of 25,000 or less;
(3) A rural county; or
(4) A geographic location designated in comprehensive plans, ordinances, or other local documents as a neighborhood, village, or similar geographic designation that is within the boundary of but does not encompass the entire area of a unit of general local government.
Provide financing
means:
(1) Originating loans;
(2) Purchasing a participation interest, or providing financing to participate, in a loan consortium for CICA-eligible housing or economic development projects;
(3) Making loans to entities that, in turn, make loans for CICA-eligible housing or economic development projects;
(4) Purchasing mortgage revenue bonds or mortgage-backed securities, where all of the loans financed by such bonds and all of the loans backing such securities, respectively, meet the eligibility requirements of the CICA program under which the member or housing associate borrower receives funding;
(5) Creating or maintaining a secondary market for loans, where all such loans are mortgage loans meeting the eligibility requirements of the CICA program under which the member or housing associate borrower receives funding;
(6) Originating CICA-eligible loans within 3 months prior to receiving the CICA funding; and
(7) Purchasing low-income housing tax credits.
RDF or Rural Development Funding program
means an advance or grant program offered by a Bank for targeted community lending in rural areas.
Rural area
means:
(1) A unit of general local government with a population of 25,000 or less;
(2) An unincorporated area outside an MSA; or
(3) An unincorporated area within an MSA that qualifies for housing or economic development assistance from the USDA.
Small business
means a “small business concern,” as that term is defined by section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(a)) and implemented by the Small Business Administration under 13 CFR part 121, or any successor provisions.
Targeted beneficiaries
means beneficiaries determined by the geographical area in which a project is located (Geographically Defined Beneficiaries), by the individuals who benefit from a project as employees or service recipients (Individual Beneficiaries), or by the nature of the project itself (Activity Beneficiaries), as follows:
(1) Geographically Defined Beneficiaries:
(i) The project is located in a neighborhood with a median income at or below the targeted income level;
(ii) The project is located in a rural Champion Community, or a rural Empowerment Zone or rural Enterprise Community, as designated by the Secretary of the USDA;
(iii) The project is located in an urban Champion Community, or an urban Empowerment Zone or urban Enterprise Community, as designated by the Secretary of HUD;
(iv) The project is located in an Indian area, as defined by the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101
et seq.
), Alaskan Native Village, or Native Hawaiian Home Land;
(v) The project is located in an area and involves a property eligible for a Brownfield Tax Credit;
(vi) The project is located in an area affected by a military base closing and is a “community in the vicinity of the installation” as defined by the Department of Defense at 32 CFR part 176;
(vii) The project is located in a designated community under the Community Adjustment and Investment Program as defined under 22 U.S.C. 290m-2;
(viii) The project is located in a Federally declared disaster area; or
(ix) The project is located in a state declared disaster area, or other area that qualifies for assistance under another Federal or State targeted economic development program, approved by FHFA.
(2) Individual Beneficiaries:
(i) The annual salaries for at least 51% of the permanent full- and part-time jobs, computed on a full-time equivalent basis, created or retained by the project, other than construction jobs, are at or below the targeted income level; or
(ii) At least 51% of the families who otherwise benefit from (other than through employment), or are provided services by, the project have incomes at or below the targeted income level.
(3) Activity Beneficiaries: Projects that qualify as small businesses.
(4) Other Targeted Beneficiaries. A Bank may designate, with the prior approval of FHFA, other targeted beneficiaries for its targeted community lending.
(5) Only targeted beneficiaries identified in paragraphs (1)(i) through (1)(iv), and (2)(i) and (2)(ii) of this definition are eligible for CIP advances.
Targeted community lending
means providing financing for economic development projects for targeted beneficiaries.
Targeted income level
means:
(1) For rural areas, incomes at or below 115 percent of the median income for the area, as adjusted for family size in accordance with the methodology of the applicable area median income standard or, at the option of the Bank, for a family of four;
(2) For urban areas, incomes at or below 100 percent of the median income for the area, as adjusted for family size in accordance with the methodology of the applicable area median income standard or, at the option of the Bank, for a family of four;
(3) For advances provided under CIP:
(i) For economic development projects, incomes at or below 80 percent of the median income for the area; or
(ii) For housing projects, incomes at or below 115 percent of the median income for the area, both as adjusted for
family size in accordance with the methodology of the applicable area median income standard or, at the option of the Bank, for a family of four; or
(4) For advances or grants provided under any other CICA program offered by a Bank, a targeted income level established by the Bank with the prior approval of FHFA.
UDF program or Urban Development Funding program
means an advance or grant program offered by a Bank for targeted community lending in urban areas.
Urban area
means:
(1) A unit of general local government with a population of more than 25,000; or
(2) An unincorporated area within an MSA that does not qualify for housing or economic development assistance from the USDA.
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
§ 1292.2
Scope.
Section 10(j)(10) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(10)) authorizes the Banks to offer Community Investment Cash Advance (CICA) programs. This part establishes requirements for all CICA programs offered by a Bank, except for a Bank's Affordable Housing Program (AHP), which is governed specifically by part 1291 of this chapter.
§ 1292.3
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to identify targeted community lending projects that the Banks may support through the establishment of CICA programs under section 10(j)(10) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(10)). Pursuant to this part, a Bank may offer RDF or UDF programs, or both, for targeted community lending using the targeted beneficiaries or targeted income levels specified in § 1292.1, without prior FHFA approval. A Bank also may offer other CICA programs for targeted community lending using targeted beneficiaries and targeted income levels other than those specified in § 1292.1, established by the Bank with the prior approval of FHFA. In addition, a Bank shall offer CICA programs under section 10(i) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(i)) (Community Investment Program (CIP)) and section 10(j) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(j)) (AHP). A Bank may provide advances or grants under its CICA programs except for CIP programs, under which a Bank may only provide advances.
§ 1292.4
Targeted Community Lending Plan.
Each Bank shall develop and adopt an annual Targeted Community Lending Plan pursuant to § 1290.6 of this chapter.
§ 1292.5
Community Investment Cash Advance Programs.
(a)
In general.
(1) Each Bank shall offer an AHP in accordance with part 1291 of this chapter.
(2) Each Bank shall offer a CIP to provide financing for housing projects and for eligible targeted community lending at the appropriate targeted income levels.
(3) Each Bank may offer RDF programs or UDF programs, or both, for targeted community lending using the targeted beneficiaries or targeted income levels specified in § 1292.1 of this part, without prior FHFA approval.
(4) Each Bank may offer CICA programs for targeted community lending using targeted beneficiaries and targeted income levels other than those specified in § 1292.1 of this part, established by the Bank with the prior approval of FHFA.
(b)
Mixed-use projects.
(1) For projects funded under CICA programs other than CIP, involving a combination of housing projects and economic development projects, only the economic development components of the project must meet the appropriate targeted income level for the respective CICA program.
(2) For projects funded under CIP, both the housing and economic development components of the project must meet the appropriate targeted income levels.
(c)
Refinancing.
CICA funding other than AHP may be used to refinance economic development projects and housing projects, provided that any equity proceeds of the refinancing of rental housing and manufactured housing parks are used to rehabilitate the projects or to preserve affordability for current residents.
(d)
Pricing and Availability of advances
—(1)
Advances to members.
For CICA programs other than AHP and CIP, a Bank shall price advances to members as provided in § 1266.5 of this chapter, and may price such advances at rates below the price of advances of similar amounts, maturities and terms made pursuant to section 10(a) of the Bank Act. (12 U.S.C. 1430(a)).
(2)
Pricing of CIP advances.
The price of advances made under CIP shall not exceed the Bank's cost of issuing consolidated obligations of comparable maturity, taking into account reasonable administrative costs.
(3)
Pricing of AHP advances.
A Bank shall price advances made under AHP in accordance with parts 1266 and 1291 of this chapter.
(4)
Advances to housing associate borrowers.
(i) A Bank may offer advances under CICA programs to housing associate borrowers at the Bank's option, except for AHP and CIP, which are available only to members.
(ii) A Bank shall price advances to housing associate borrowers as provided in § 1266.17 of this chapter, and may price such advances at rates below the price of advances of similar amounts, maturities and terms made pursuant to section 10b of the Bank Act. (12 U.S.C. 1430b).
(5)
Pricing pass-through.
A Bank may require that borrowers receiving advances made under CICA programs pass through the benefit of any price reduction from regular advance pricing to their borrowers.
(6)
Discount Fund.
(i) A Bank may establish a Discount Fund which the Bank may use to reduce the price of CIP or other advances made under CICA programs below the advance prices provided for by this part.
(ii) Price reductions made through the Discount Fund shall be made in accordance with a fair distribution scheme.
§ 1292.6
Reporting.
(a) Each Bank annually shall provide to FHFA, on or before January 31, a Targeted Community Lending Plan.
(b) Each Bank shall provide such other reports concerning its CICA programs as FHHA may request from time to time.
§ 1292.7
Documentation.
(a) A Bank shall require the borrower to certify to the Bank that each project funded under a CICA program (other than AHP) meets the respective targeting requirements of the CICA program. Such certification shall include a description of how the project meets the requirements, and where appropriate, a statistical summary or list of incomes of the borrowers, rents for the project, or salaries of jobs created or retained.
(b) For those CICA-funded projects that also receive funds from another targeted Federal economic development program that has income targeting requirements that are the same as, or more restrictive than, the targeting requirements of the applicable CICA program, the Bank shall permit the borrower to certify that compliance with the criteria of such Federal economic development program will meet the requirements of the respective CICA program.
(c) Such certifications shall satisfy the Bank's obligations to document compliance with the CICA funding provisions of this part.
Pt. 1293

# PART 1293—FAIR LENDING OVERSIGHT AND EQUITABLE HOUSING FINANCE

# Subpart A—General
1293.1
General.
1293.2
Definitions.
1293.3
Compliance and enforcement.
1293.4
Preservation of authority.
1293.5-1293.10
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Fair Housing, Fair Lending, and Unfair or Deceptive Acts or Practices Compliance
1293.11
Regulated entity compliance.
1293.12
Reports, data, and certifications.
1293.13-1293.20
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Enterprise Equitable Housing Finance Planning
1293.21
General.
1293.22
Equitable housing finance plans and updates.
1293.23
Performance reports.
1293.24
Public engagement.
1293.25
Program requirements.
1293.26
Enterprise board equitable housing and mission responsibilities.
1293.27
Program evaluation.
1293.28-1293.30
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Federal Home Loan Bank Equitable Housing Finance Planning
1293.31
General.
1293.32
Equitable housing reports.
1293.33-1293.40
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Data Collection
1293.41
Required Enterprise data collection and reporting.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1456(c)(1); 12 U.S.C. 1723a(m)(1); 12 U.S.C. 4511; 12 U.S.C. 4513; 12 U.S.C. 4514; 12 U.S.C. 4517; 12 U.S.C. 4526; 42 U.S.C. 3608(d).

# Source:
89 FR 42784, May 16, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1293.1
General.
(a) This part sets forth requirements related to fair lending oversight of regulated entities, equitable housing finance planning by the Enterprises, and certain data collection and reporting by the regulated entities.
(b) Nothing in this part permits or requires a regulated entity to engage in any activity that would otherwise be inconsistent with the Safety and Soundness Act, the authorizing statutes, or other applicable law.
(c) Nothing in this part creates a private right of action.
(d) If any provision of this part, or any application of a provision, is stayed or determined to be invalid, the remaining provisions or applications are severable and shall continue in effect.
§ 1293.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Annual plan update (update)
means a public update to an Equitable Housing Finance Plan for the second or third year of a planning cycle.
Barrier
means an element of an Enterprise's actions, products, or policies, or an aspect of the housing market that can reasonably be influenced by the Enterprise's actions, products, or policies, that contributes to an underserved community's limited share of sustainable housing opportunities, difficulties in accessing those sustainable housing opportunities, or the continuing adverse effects of discrimination affecting their participation in the housing market.
Equitable Housing Finance Plan (plan)
means a three-year public plan developed with public engagement and adopted by each Enterprise describing how each Enterprise will overcome barriers to sustainable housing opportunities faced by one or more underserved communities through objectives, meaningful actions, and measurable goals.
Fair housing and fair lending laws
means the Fair Housing Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and implementing regulations. Additionally, with respect to an Enterprise, it means 12 U.S.C. 4545 and implementing regulations.
Performance report (report)
means an annual public report by an Enterprise on its performance under its Equitable Housing Finance Plan and other information on equitable housing and fair lending that meets the requirements of § 1293.23 and any other FHFA requirements.
Sustainable housing opportunity
means a rental or homeownership opportunity that includes one or more characteristics important to the needs of a tenant or homeowner. These characteristics include but are not limited to: being affordable to obtain and sustain; relating to a dwelling that meets basic habitability requirements and is reasonably able to withstand natural disasters or other climate-related impact events; relating to a dwelling that is improving the quality of housing stock in an area; being located in an area with access to educational, transportation, economic, and other important opportunities, including community assets; being accessible for persons with disabilities and available in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of an individual with a disability; not placing the tenant or homeowner in a position where they are unlikely to succeed in sustaining the housing opportunity over the long term; and providing reasonable opportunities to accommodate hardships by the renter or homeowner to allow continuation of the housing opportunity.
Underserved community
is a group of people with shared characteristics or
an area that is subject to current discrimination or has been subjected to past discrimination that has or has had continuing adverse effects on the group or area's participation in the housing market, historically has received or currently receives a lower share of the benefits of Enterprise programs and activities providing sustainable housing opportunities, or that otherwise has had difficulty accessing these benefits compared with groups of people without the shared characteristic or other areas. Shared characteristics include but are not limited to characteristics protected by fair housing and fair lending laws applicable to the Enterprises including race, color, religion, sex (including actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity), familial status, national origin, disability, marital status, age, receipt of public assistance income, exercise of rights protected by the Consumer Credit Protection Act, exercise of rights protected by the Fair Housing Act, dwelling age, dwelling location, and neighborhood age. Examples of underserved communities, if supported by adequate information in a plan pursuant to § 1293.25, include: the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, single parents, persons with disabilities, women of color, seniors with fixed income, self-employed individuals, individuals with limited mainstream credit and banking history, counties which have historically received a lower share of the benefits of Enterprise programs and activities, individuals with income variance such as skilled tradespeople or those that receive income through commission, persons with limited English proficiency, and multigenerational households.
§ 1293.3
Compliance and enforcement.
FHFA may enforce compliance with this part in any manner and through any means within its authority, including but not limited to adverse examination findings or through supervision or enforcement under 12 U.S.C. 4511(b), 4513b, 4631, or 4636. The agency may conduct examinations of a regulated entity's activities related to this part pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 4517.
§ 1293.4
Preservation of authority.
Nothing in this part in any way limits the authority of the Federal Housing Finance Agency under other provisions of applicable law and regulations.
§§ 1293.5-1293.10
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Fair Housing, Fair Lending, and Unfair or Deceptive Acts or Practices Compliance
§ 1293.11
Regulated entity compliance.
(a)
Compliance with fair housing and fair lending laws.
Regulated entities must comply with fair housing and fair lending laws.
(b)
Compliance with prohibition on unfair or deceptive acts or practices.
Regulated entities must comply with the prohibition on unfair or deceptive acts or practices under 15 U.S.C. 45.
(c)
Responsibilities of boards of directors.
In accordance with § 1239.4(b)(4) of this chapter, directors of a regulated entity shall direct the operations of the regulated entity in conformity with fair housing and fair lending laws and the prohibition on unfair or deceptive acts or practices under 15 U.S.C. 45, including by appropriately considering compliance with fair housing and fair lending laws and the prohibition on unfair or deceptive acts or practices under 15 U.S.C. 45 in the oversight of the regulated entity and its business activities.
§ 1293.12
Reports, data, and certifications.
(a)
Reports.
FHFA may require the regulated entities to submit to FHFA regular and special reports concerning fair housing, fair lending, and compliance with § 1293.11(b) including the provision of data pursuant to FHFA instructions.
(b)
Certifications.
Each regular report concerning fair housing and fair lending shall include a certification of the regulated entity's compliance with fair housing and fair lending laws and with § 1293.11(b) to the best of the certifier's knowledge and belief following reasonable or due inquiry of the certifying official in addition to any other required
certification or declaration (such as a declaration under 12 U.S.C. 4514(a)(4)).
§§ 1293.13-1293.20
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Enterprise Equitable Housing Finance Planning
§ 1293.21
General.
(a) This subpart sets forth the Enterprise duty to engage in equitable housing finance planning and to take meaningful actions to support underserved communities, and establishes standards and procedures related to public engagement and FHFA's oversight of the Enterprises' planning and actions.
(b) If a date provided in this subpart falls on a day that is not a business day, the date required shall be the next business day.
(c) Submission and publication dates provided in this subpart may be changed by the Director, as determined appropriate, by public order for a particular required submission or publication.
(d) Plans and reports under this subpart are reports required under 12 U.S.C. 4514(a) and therefore must include a notice and declaration in compliance with 12 U.S.C. 4514(a)(4).
§ 1293.22
Equitable housing finance plans and updates.
(a)
General.
Every three years each Enterprise shall adopt an Equitable Housing Finance Plan covering a three-year period. Each Enterprise may adopt a public annual plan update to that plan for the second and third years of the plan.
(b)
Contents of plan.
The plan shall include:
(1) Identification of barriers to sustainable housing opportunities faced by one or more underserved communities;
(2) Objectives that establish the overall direction and focus for the plan by defining the outcomes the plan seeks to accomplish, and that are logically tied to one or more identified barriers;
(3) Meaningful actions (actions) describing the high-impact activities the Enterprise intends to undertake to further the identified objectives that span one or more years (including extending beyond the period covered by the plan);
(4) Specific, measurable, and time-bound goals (goals) for each action; and
(5) Summaries of the Enterprise's public engagement in developing the plan.
(c)
Plan submission.
Each Enterprise shall submit its Plan to FHFA for review on or before September 30 of the year prior to the first year covered by the Plan.
(d)
Contents of annual plan update.
If an Enterprise chooses to submit an update, it shall include all changes the Enterprise is making to its plan, including any changes in identified barriers, objectives, meaningful actions, specific, measurable, and time-bound goals, and a summary of any additional public engagement. The update shall clearly describe the specific reason(s) for each significant change to the plan.
(e)
Annual update submission.
If an Enterprise chooses to submit an update, it shall submit its update for FHFA review on or before February 15 of the year covered by the update.
(f)
FHFA review.
FHFA shall review each plan and update and, prior to publication, may:
(1) Require removal of any confidential or proprietary information;
(2) Require removal of any content that is not consistent with this part, the Safety and Soundness Act, the authorizing statutes, or other applicable law; and
(3) Provide any feedback for consideration.
(g)
No prior approval of activities.
FHFA's review does not constitute a prior approval of a plan or update or any action described therein. All actions included in a plan are subject to all applicable FHFA and other requirements and authorities.
(h)
Disclaimer included in plan and annual update.
The plan and the annual update must include disclaimer language indicating the implementation of actions may be subject to change based on certain factors.
(i)
Plan and update publication.
Each Enterprise shall publish its plan on its website on January 15 of the first year covered by the plan and maintain it thereafter. Each Enterprise shall publish any update on its website on April 15 of the second and third year covered by the plan and maintain it thereafter.
Each Enterprise shall ensure that plans and updates are accessible to persons with disabilities.
(j)
Additional guidance.
From time to time, FHFA may issue public guidance on plans and updates.
§ 1293.23
Performance reports.
(a)
General.
Annually, each Enterprise shall publicly report on its plan progress and provide other information related to equitable housing and fair housing and fair lending for the prior year in a performance report.
(b)
Contents of the report.
The report shall contain, at a minimum:
(1) A narrative assessment consisting of a review of major successes and key accomplishments, as well as lessons learned and challenges experienced;
(2) Plan performance details for each objective, meaningful action, measurable goal, including outcome-based metrics;
(3) A summary of outcomes for the year categorized by type of activity and by race and ethnicity group and underserved community group (if available);
(4) A summary of outcomes for the year for homeownership programs or products created pursuant to the Plan by race and ethnicity group and underserved community group (if available);
(5) An assessment of the Enterprise's underwriting that includes:
(i) For the applicable year and the preceding three years, the accept rates for the Enterprise's automated underwriting system categorized by home purchase, rate-term refinancing, cash-out refinancing and by race and ethnicity group and by underserved community group (if available);
(ii) For the applicable year and the preceding three years, the Enterprise's single-family loan acquisitions categorized by home purchase, rate-term refinancing, cash-out refinancing, and by race and ethnicity group, neighborhood race and ethnicity, and underserved community group (if available);
(iii) For the applicable year and the preceding three years, the Enterprise's multifamily loan acquisitions categorized by neighborhood race and ethnicity;
(iv) A narrative description of paragraphs (b)(5)(i)through (iii) of this section; and
(v) A narrative assessment of any innovations in automated underwriting or other policy taken during the applicable year and any future planned work intended to address identified disparities.
(c)
Report submission.
Each Enterprise shall submit its report to FHFA for review on or before February 15 annually.
(d)
FHFA review.
FHFA shall review each report and, prior to publication, may:
(1) Require removal of any confidential or proprietary information;
(2) Require removal of any content that is not consistent with this part, the Safety and Soundness Act, the authorizing statutes, or other applicable law; and
(3) Provide any feedback for consideration.
(e)
Report publication.
Each Enterprise shall publish its report on its website on April 15 annually and maintain it thereafter. Each Enterprise shall ensure that reports are accessible to persons with disabilities.
(f)
Additional requirements and guidance.
FHFA may require additional information to be included in reports through other FHFA authorities, such as an order under 12 U.S.C. 4514. From time to time, FHFA may issue public guidance on reports.
§ 1293.24
Public engagement.
(a)
FHFA public engagement.
On or before June 15 annually, FHFA will conduct public engagement to allow the public to provide input for the Enterprises to consider in developing and implementing their plans and for FHFA to consider in its oversight.
(b)
Enterprise consultation.
The Enterprises shall consult with stakeholders, including members of underserved communities and housing market participants, in the development and implementation of their plans and updates.
§ 1293.25
Program requirements.
(a)
Requirements for underserved communities.
An Enterprise shall ensure that a plan relies on adequate information in identifying the underserved
community or communities addressed by that plan and shall document that information as part of the plan. In selecting one or more underserved communities to be the focus of a plan, an Enterprise shall consider, among other factors:
(1) Input from public engagement;
(2) Whether the underserved community has previously been the focus of a plan;
(3) The extent of the needs identified for the underserved community, including such needs that may remain despite prior efforts under a plan; and
(4) Whether the underserved community is covered by a different initiative or program of the Enterprise.
(b)
Requirements for objectives.
Objectives identified in a plan shall be logically tied to one or more identified barriers and facilitate establishing meaningful actions and measurable goals.
(c)
Requirements for meaningful actions
—(1)
Relation to objectives and goals.
Meaningful actions shall be logically tied to one or more measurable goals and one or more objectives and support sustainable housing opportunities for an identified underserved community.
(2)
Other Enterprise goals and incremental action.
Meaningful actions may also serve other Enterprise objectives and goals; however, a plan shall reflect significant additional action above and beyond actions that are also serving other Enterprise objectives and goals and shall reflect more than
de minimis
action.
(3)
Significant dedication of resources.
Meaningful actions shall reflect a commitment commensurate with an Enterprise's prominence in the housing market, its available resources, its dedication of resources to other important efforts, the needs of underserved communities, market conditions, and safety and soundness.
(4)
Compliance with law.
Actions that are not compliant with the Safety and Soundness Act, the authorizing statutes, or other applicable law do not qualify as meaningful actions.
(5)
Required remedial actions.
Actions that are required to remediate supervisory findings or required as a result of enforcement actions do not qualify as meaningful actions.
(d)
Requirements for measurable goals.
Measurable goals shall be:
(1) Logically tied to one or more meaningful actions identified in a plan;
(2) Specific;
(3) Time-bound;
(4) Focused on outcomes; and
(5) Facilitative of measuring Enterprise progress, comparing Enterprise performance, and ensuring public accountability.
§ 1293.26
Enterprise board equitable housing and mission responsibilities.
An Enterprise's board of directors shall appropriately consider the objectives, actions, and goals of the Enterprise's Equitable Housing Finance Plan, while also appropriately considering its affordable housing goals, Duty to Serve plans and targets, and other mission-related obligations, in the board's oversight of the Enterprise and the Enterprise's business activities.
§ 1293.27
Program evaluation.
FHFA shall publish on its website a narrative assessment evaluating each Enterprise's performance under their respective Equitable Housing Finance Plans by May 15 of each year.
§§ 1293.28-1293.30
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Federal Home Loan Bank Equitable Housing Finance Planning

# Source:
89 FR 42787, May 16, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 42787, May 16, 2024, subpart D was added, effective Feb. 15, 2026.
§ 1293.31
General.
(a) This subpart sets forth the Federal Home Loan Banks' (Banks) duty to report on actions voluntarily taken to support underserved communities.
(b) If a date provided in this subpart falls on a day that is not a business day, the date required shall be the next business day.
(c) Submission and publication dates provided in this subpart may be changed by the Director, as determined
appropriate, by public order for a particular required submission or publication.
(d) Reports under this subpart are reports required under 12 U.S.C. 4514(a) and therefore must include a notice and declaration in compliance with 12 U.S.C. 4514(a)(4).
§ 1293.32
Equitable housing reports.
(a)
General.
Annually, each Bank shall publicly provide information related to actions voluntarily to taken to overcome barriers to sustainable housing opportunities faced by one or more underserved communities for the prior year and such actions currently planned for the coming year or shall provide a notice that it has not taken any voluntary actions and does not currently have any such voluntary meaningful actions planned for the coming year.
(b)
Contents of the report.
The report shall contain, at a minimum, a narrative assessment consisting of:
(1) A review of voluntary actions taken, including, as applicable major successes, key accomplishments, lessons learned, and challenges experienced; and
(2) A description of any future planned voluntary actions.
(c)
Report or notice submission.
Each Bank shall submit its report to FHFA for review on or before February 15 annually or shall submit a notice to FHFA that it has not taken any voluntary actions and does not currently have such voluntary meaningful actions planned for the coming year.
(d)
FHFA review.
FHFA shall review each report and, prior to publication, may:
(1) Require removal of any confidential or proprietary information;
(2) Require removal of any content that is not consistent with this part, the Safety and Soundness Act, the authorizing statutes, or other applicable law; and
(3) Provide any feedback for consideration.
(e)
Report or notice publication.
Each Bank shall publish its report or notice that it has not taken voluntary actions and does not currently have such voluntary actions planned for the future on its website on April 15 annually and maintain it thereafter. Each Bank shall ensure that reports are accessible to persons with disabilities.
(f)
Additional requirements and guidance.
FHFA may require additional information to be included in reports through other FHFA authorities, such as an order under 12 U.S.C. 4514. From time to time, FHFA may issue public guidance on reports.
§§ 1293.33-1293.40
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Data Collection
§ 1293.41
Required Enterprise data collection and reporting.
Each Enterprise shall collect, maintain, and provide to FHFA the following data relating to single-family mortgages:
(a) The language preference of applicants and borrowers; and
(b) Whether applicants and borrowers have completed homeownership education or housing counseling and information about the homeownership education or housing counseling.
PARTS 1294-1299 [RESERVED]
12 CFR Ch. XIII (1-1-25 Edition)
Financial Stability Oversight Council

# CHAPTER XIII—FINANCIAL STABILITY OVERSIGHT COUNCIL
Part
Page
1300
[Reserved]
1301
Freedom of information
645
1310
Authority to require supervision and regulation of certain nonbank financial companies
658
1320
Designation of financial market utilities
673
1321-1399
[Reserved]
PART 1300 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1301

# PART 1301—FREEDOM OF INFORMATION
Sec.
1301.1
General.
1301.2
Information made available.
1301.3
Publication in the Federal Register.
1301.4
Public inspection.
1301.5
Requests for Council records.
1301.6
Responsibility for responding to requests for Council records.
1301.7
Timing of responses to requests for Council records.
1301.8
Responses to requests for Council records.
1301.9
Classified information.
1301.10
Requests for business information provided to the Council.
1301.11
Administrative appeals and dispute resolution.
1301.12
Fees for processing requests for Council records.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5322; 5 U.S.C. 552.

# Source:
82 FR 55744, Nov. 24, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1301.1
General.
This subpart contains the regulations of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “Council”) implementing the Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”), 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended. These regulations set forth procedures for requesting access to records maintained by the Council. These regulations should be read together with the FOIA, which provides additional information about this topic.
§ 1301.2
Information made available.
(a)
General.
The FOIA provides for access to records developed or maintained by a Federal agency. The provisions of the FOIA are intended to assure the right of the public to information. Generally, this section divides agency records into three major categories and provides methods by which each category of records is to be made available to the public. The three major categories of records are as follows:
(1) Information required to be published in the
Federal Register
(see § 1301.3);
(2) Information required to be made available for public inspection in an electronic format or, in the alternative, to be published and offered for sale (see § 1301.4); and
(3) Information required to be made available to any member of the public upon specific request (see §§ 1301.5 through 1301.12).
(b)
Right of access.
Subject to the exemptions and exclusions set forth in the FOIA (5 U.S.C. 552(b) and (c)), and the regulations set forth in this subpart, any person shall be afforded access to records.
(c)
Exemptions.
(1) The disclosure requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552(a) do not apply to certain records which are exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552(b); nor do the disclosure requirements apply to certain records which are excluded under 5 U.S.C. 552(c).
(2) The Council shall withhold records or information under the FOIA only when it reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption or when disclosure is prohibited by law. Whenever the Council determines that full disclosure of a requested record is not possible, the Council shall consider whether partial disclosure is possible and shall take reasonable steps to segregate and release nonexempt information. Nothing in this paragraph requires disclosure of information that is otherwise exempted from disclosure under 12 U.S.C. 552(b)(3).
§ 1301.3
Publication in the Federal Register.
Subject to the application of the FOIA exemptions and exclusions (5 U.S.C. 552(b) and (c)) and subject to the limitations provided in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1), the Council shall state, publish and maintain current in the
Federal Register
for the guidance of the public:
(a) Descriptions of its central and field organization and the established places at which, the persons from whom, and the methods whereby, the public may obtain information, make submittals or requests, or obtain decisions;
(b) Statements of the general course and method by which its functions are channeled and determined, including the nature and requirements of all formal and informal procedures available;
(c) Rules of procedure, descriptions of forms available or the places at which forms may be obtained, and instructions as to the scope and contents of all papers, reports, or examinations;
(d) Substantive rules of general applicability adopted as authorized by law, and statements of general policy or interpretations of general applicability formulated and adopted by the Council; and
(e) Each amendment, revision, or repeal of matters referred to in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
§ 1301.4
Public inspection.
(a)
In general.
Subject to the application of the FOIA exemptions and exclusions (5 U.S.C. 552(b) and (c)), the Council shall, in conformance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2), make available for public inspection in an electronic format, or, in the alternative, promptly publish and offer for sale:
(1) Final opinions, including concurring and dissenting opinions, and orders, made in the adjudication of cases;
(2) Those statements of policy and interpretations which have been adopted by the Council but which are not published in the
Federal Register
;
(3) Its administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public;
(4) Copies of all records, regardless of form or format, that have been released previously to any person under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3) and §§ 1301.5 through 1301.12, and that the Council determines have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records. When the Council receives three (3) or more requests for substantially the same records, then the Council shall place those requests in front of any existing processing backlog and make the released records available in the Council's public reading room and in the electronic reading room on the Council's Web site.
(5) A general index of the records referred to in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(b)
Information made available online.
For records required to be made available for public inspection in an electronic format pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) and paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section, the Council shall make such records available on its Web site as soon as practicable but in any case no later than one year after such records are created.
(c)
Redaction.
Based upon applicable exemptions in 5 U.S.C. 552(b), the Council may redact certain information contained in any matter described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section before making such information available for inspection or publishing it. The justification for the redaction shall be explained in writing, and the extent of such redaction shall be indicated on the portion of the record which is made available or published, unless including that indication would harm an interest protected by the exemption in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) under which the redaction is made. If technically feasible, the extent of the redaction shall be indicated at the place in the record where the redaction was made.
(d)
Public reading room.
The Council shall make available for public inspection in an electronic format, in a reading room or otherwise, the material described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. Fees for duplication shall be charged in accordance with § 1301.12. The location of the Council's reading room is the Department of the Treasury's Library. The Library is located in the Freedman's Bank Building (formerly the Treasury Annex), Room 1020, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20220. For building security purposes, visitors are required to make an appointment by calling (202) 622-0990.
(e)
Indices.
(1) The Council shall maintain and make available for public inspection in an electronic format current indices identifying any material described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section. In addition, the Council shall promptly publish, quarterly or more frequently, and distribute (by sale or otherwise) copies of each index or supplement unless the Council determines by order published in the
Federal Register
that the publication would be unnecessary and impractical, in which case the Council shall nonetheless provide copies of the index on request at a cost not to exceed the direct cost of duplication.
(2) The Council shall make the indices referred to in paragraphs (a)(5) and (e)(1) of this section available on its Web site.
§ 1301.5
Requests for Council records.
(a)
In general.
Except for records made available under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1) and (a)(2) and subject to the application of the FOIA exemptions and exclusions (5 U.S.C. 552(b) and (c)), the Council shall promptly make its records available to any person pursuant to a request that conforms to the rules and procedures of this section.
(b)
Form and content of request.
A request for records of the Council shall be made as follows:
(1) The request for records shall be made in writing and submitted by mail or via the Internet and should state, both in the request itself and on any envelope that encloses it, that it comprises a FOIA request. A request that does not explicitly state that it is a FOIA request, but clearly indicates or implies that it is a request for records, may also be processed under the FOIA.
(2) If a request is sent by mail, it shall be addressed and submitted as follows: FOIA Request—Financial Stability Oversight Council, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington DC 20220. If a request is made via the Internet, it shall be submitted as set forth on the Council's Web site.
(3) In order to ensure the Council's ability to respond in a timely manner, a FOIA request must describe the records that the requester seeks in sufficient detail to enable Council personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever possible, the request must include specific information about each record sought, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter of the record. If known, the requester must include any file designations or descriptions for the records requested. In general, a requester is encouraged to provide more specific information about the records or types of records sought to increase the likelihood that responsive records can be located.
(4) The request shall include the name of and contact information for the requester, including a mailing address, telephone number, and, if available, an email address at which the Council may contact the requester regarding the request.
(5) For the purpose of determining any fees that may apply to processing a request, a requester shall indicate in the request whether the requester is a commercial user, an educational institution, non-commercial scientific institution, representative of the news media, or “other” requester, as those terms are defined in § 1301.12(c), or in the alternative, state how the records released will be used. The Council shall use this information solely for the purpose of determining the appropriate fee category that applies to the requester and shall not use this information to determine whether to disclose a record in response to the request.
(6) If a requester seeks a waiver or reduction of fees associated with processing a request, then the request shall include a statement to that effect, pursuant to § 1301.12(f). Any request that does not seek a waiver or reduction of fees shall constitute an agreement of the requester to pay any and all fees (of up to $25) that may apply to the request, unless or until a request for waiver is sought and granted. The requester also may specify in the request an upper limit (of not less than $25) that the requester is willing to pay to process the request.
(i) Any request for waiver or reduction of fees should be filed together with or as part of the FOIA request, or at a later time prior to the Council incurring costs to process the request.
(ii) A waiver request submitted after the Council incurs costs will be considered in accordance with § 1301.12(f); however, the requester must agree in writing to pay the fees already incurred if the waiver is denied.
(7) If a requester seeks expedited processing of a request, then the request must include a statement to that effect as is required by § 1301.7(c).
(c)
Request receipt; effect of request deficiencies.
The Council shall deem itself to have received a request on the date that it receives a complete request containing the information required by paragraph (b) of this section. The Council need not accept a request, process a request, or be bound by any
deadlines in this subpart for processing a request that fails materially to conform to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. If the Council determines that it cannot process a request because the request is deficient, then the Council shall return it to the requester and advise the requester in what respect the request is deficient. The requester may then resubmit the request, which the Council shall treat as a new request. A determination by the Council that a request is deficient in any respect is not a denial of a request for records, and such determinations are not subject to appeal.
(d)
Processing of request containing technical deficiency.
Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this section, the Council shall not reject a request solely due to one or more technical deficiencies contained in the request. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “technical deficiency” means an error or omission with respect to an item of information required by paragraph (b) of this section which, by itself, does not prevent that part of the request from conforming to the applicable requirement, and includes without limitation a non-material error relating to the contact information for the requester, or similar error or omission regarding the date, title or name, author, recipient, or subject matter of the record requested.
§ 1301.6
Responsibility for responding to requests for Council records.
(a)
In general.
In determining which records are responsive to a request, the Council ordinarily will include only information contained in records that the Council maintains, or are in its possession and control, as of the date the Council begins its search for responsive records. If any other date is used, the Council shall inform the requester of that date.
(b)
Authority to grant or deny requests.
The records officer shall be authorized to make an initial determination to grant or deny, in whole or in part, a request for a record.
(c)
Referrals.
When the Council receives a request for a record or any portion of a record in its possession that originated with another agency, including but not limited to a constituent agency of the Council, it shall:
(1) In the case of a record originated by a federal agency subject to the FOIA, refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that record to the originating agency to determine whether to disclose it; and
(2) In the case of a record originated by a state agency, respond to the request after giving notice to the originating state agency and a reasonable opportunity to provide input or to assert any applicable privileges.
(d)
Notice of referral.
Whenever the Council refers all or any part of the responsibility for responding to a request to another agency, the Council shall notify the requester of the referral and inform the requester of the name of each agency to which the request has been referred and of the part of the request that has been referred.
§ 1301.7
Timing of responses to requests for Council records.
(a)
In general.
Except as set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, the Council shall respond to requests according to their order of receipt.
(b)
Multitrack processing.
(1) The Council may establish tracks to process separately simple and complex requests. The Council may assign a request to the simple or complex track based on the amount of work and/or time needed to process the request. The Council shall process requests in each track according to the order of their receipt.
(2) The Council may provide a requester in its complex track with an opportunity to limit the scope of the request to qualify for faster processing within the specified limits of the simple track(s).
(c)
Requests for expedited processing.
(1) The Council shall respond to a request out of order and on an expedited basis whenever a requester demonstrates a compelling need for expedited processing in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph (c).
(2)
Form and content of a request for expedited processing.
A request for expedited processing shall be made as follows:
(i) A request for expedited processing shall be made in writing or via the Internet and submitted as part of the initial request for records. When a request for records includes a request for expedited processing, both the envelope and the request itself must be clearly marked “Expedited Processing Requested.” A request for expedited processing that is not clearly so marked, but satisfies the requirements in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, may nevertheless be granted.
(ii) A request for expedited processing shall contain a statement that demonstrates a compelling need for the requester to obtain expedited processing of the requested records. A “compelling need” may be established under the standard in either paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section by demonstrating that:
(A) Failure to obtain the requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual. The requester shall fully explain the circumstances warranting such an expected threat so that the Council may make a reasoned determination that a delay in obtaining the requested records would pose such a threat; or
(B) With respect to a request made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information, urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activity. A person “primarily engaged in disseminating information” does not include individuals who are engaged only incidentally in the dissemination of information. The standard of “urgency to inform” requires that the records requested pertain to a matter of current exigency to the American general public and that delaying a response to a request for records would compromise a significant recognized interest to and throughout the American general public. The requester must adequately explain the matter or activity and why the records sought are necessary to be provided on an expedited basis.
(iii) The requester shall certify the written statement that purports to demonstrate a compelling need for expedited processing to be true and correct to the best of the requester's knowledge and belief. The certification must be in the form prescribed by 28 U.S.C. 1746: “I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. Executed on [date].”
(3)
Determinations of requests for expedited processing.
Within ten (10) calendar days of its receipt of a request for expedited processing, the Council shall decide whether to grant the request and shall notify the requester of the determination in writing.
(4)
Effect of granting expedited processing.
If the Council grants a request for expedited processing, then the Council shall give the expedited request priority over non-expedited requests and shall process the expedited request as soon as practicable. The Council may assign expedited requests to their own simple and complex processing tracks based upon the amount of work and/or time needed to process them. Within each such track, an expedited request shall be processed in the order of its receipt.
(5)
Appeals of denials of requests for expedited processing.
If the Council denies a request for expedited processing, then the requester shall have the right to submit an appeal of the denial determination in accordance with § 1301.11. The Council shall communicate this appeal right as part of its written notification to the requester denying expedited processing. The requester shall clearly mark its appeal request and any envelope that encloses it with the words “Appeal for Expedited Processing.”
(d)
Time period for responding to requests for records.
Ordinarily, the Council shall have twenty (20) days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) from when a request that satisfies the requirements of § 1301.5(b) is received by the Council to determine whether to grant or deny a request for records. The twenty-day time period set forth in this paragraph shall not be tolled by the Council except that the Council may:
(1) Make one reasonable demand to the requester for clarifying information about the request and toll the twenty-day time period while it awaits the clarifying information; or
(2) Toll the twenty-day time period while awaiting receipt of the requester's response to the Council's request for clarification regarding the assessment of fees.
(e)
Unusual circumstances
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, if the Council determines that, due to unusual circumstances, it cannot respond either to a request within the time period set forth in paragraph (d) of this section or to an appeal within the time period set forth in § 1301.11, the Council may extend the applicable time periods by informing the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances and of the date by which the Council expects to complete its processing of the request or appeal. Any extension or extensions of time shall not cumulatively total more than ten (10) days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays).
(2)
Additional time.
If the Council determines that it needs additional time beyond a ten-day extension to process the request or appeal, then the Council shall notify the requester and provide the requester with an opportunity to limit the scope of the request or appeal or to arrange for an alternative time frame for processing the request or appeal or a modified request or appeal. The requester shall retain the right to define the desired scope of the request or appeal, as long as it meets the requirements contained in this part. To aid the requester, the Council shall make available its FOIA Public Liaison, who shall assist in defining the desired scope of the request, and shall notify the requester of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services.
(3) As used in this paragraph (e), “unusual circumstances” means, but only to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper processing of the particular requests:
(i) The need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the office processing the request;
(ii) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or
(iii) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request, or among two or more components or component offices having substantial subject matter interest therein.
(4) Where the Council reasonably believes that multiple requests submitted by a requester, or by a group of requesters acting in concert, constitute a single request that would otherwise involve unusual circumstances, and the requests involve clearly related matters, they may be aggregated. Multiple requests involving unrelated matters will not be aggregated. The Council may disaggregate and treat as separate requests a single request that has multiple unrelated components. The Council shall notify the requester if a request is disaggregated.
§ 1301.8
Responses to requests for Council records.
(a)
Acknowledgement of requests.
Upon receipt of a request that meets the requirements of § 1301.5(b), the Council ordinarily shall assign to the request a unique tracking number and shall send an acknowledgement letter or email to the requester that contains the following information:
(1) A brief description of the request;
(2) The applicable request tracking number;
(3) The date of receipt of the request, as determined in accordance with § 1301.5(c); and
(4) A confirmation, with respect to any fees that may apply to the request pursuant to § 1301.12, that the requester has sought a waiver or reduction in such fees, has agreed to pay any and all applicable fees, or has specified an upper limit (of not less than $25) that the requester is willing to pay in fees to process the request.
(b)
Initial determination to grant or deny a request
—(1)
In general.
The Council records officer (as designated in § 1301.6(b)) shall make initial determinations to grant or to deny in whole or in part requests for records.
(2)
Granting of request.
If the request is granted in full or in part, the Council shall provide the requester with a copy of the releasable records, and shall do so in the format specified by the requester to the extent that the records are readily producible by the Council in the requested format. The Council also shall send the requester a statement of the applicable fees, broken down by search, review and duplication fees, either at the time of the determination or shortly thereafter. The Council shall also advise the requester of the right to seek assistance from the FOIA Public Liaison.
(3)
Denial of requests.
If the Council determines that the request for records should be denied in whole or in part, the Council shall notify the requester in writing. The notification shall:
(i) State the exemptions relied on in not granting the request;
(ii) If technically feasible, indicate the volume of information redacted (including the number of pages withheld in part and in full) and the exemptions under which the redaction is made at the place in the record where such redaction is made (unless providing such indication would harm an interest protected by the exemption relied upon to deny such material);
(iii) Set forth the name and title or position of the responsible official;
(iv) Advise the requester of the right to administrative appeal in accordance with § 1301.11 and specify the official or office to which such appeal shall be submitted; and
(v) Advise the requester of the right to seek assistance from the FOIA Public Liaison or seek dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services.
(4)
No records found.
If it is determined, after an adequate search for records by the responsible official or his/her delegate, that no records could be located, the Council shall so notify the requester in writing. The notification letter shall advise the requester of the right to seek assistance from the FOIA Public Liaison, seek dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services, and administratively appeal the Council's determination that no records could be located (
i.e.,
to challenge the adequacy of the Council's search for responsive records) in accordance with § 1301.11. The response shall specify the official to whom the appeal shall be submitted for review.
§ 1301.9
Classified information.
(a)
Referrals of requests for classified information.
Whenever a request is made for a record containing information that has been classified, or may be appropriate for classification, by another agency under Executive Order 13526 or any other executive order concerning the classification of records, the Council shall refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that information to the agency that classified the information, should consider the information for classification, or has the primary interest in it, as appropriate. Whenever a record contains information that has been derivatively classified by the Council because it contains information classified by another agency, the Council shall refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that information to the agency that classified the underlying information or shall consult with that agency prior to processing the record for disclosure or withholding.
(b)
Determination of continuing need for classification of information.
Requests for information classified pursuant to Executive Order 13526 require the Council to review the information to determine whether it continues to warrant classification. Information which no longer warrants classification under the Executive Order's criteria shall be declassified and made available to the requester, unless the information is otherwise exempt from disclosure.
§ 1301.10
Requests for business information provided to the Council.
(a)
In general.
Business information provided to the Council by a submitter shall not be disclosed pursuant to a FOIA request except in accordance with this section.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Business information
means information from a submitter that is trade
secrets or other commercial or financial information that may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4.
(2)
Submitter
means any person or entity from whom the Council obtains business information, directly or indirectly. The term includes corporations, state, local, and tribal governments, and foreign governments.
(3)
Exemption 4
means Exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).
(c)
Designation of business information.
A submitter of business information shall use good-faith efforts to designate, by appropriate markings, either at the time of submission or at a reasonable time thereafter, any portions of its submission that it considers to be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4. These designations will expire ten (10) years after the date of the submission unless the submitter on his or her own initiative requests otherwise, and provides justification for, a longer designation period.
(d)
Notice to submitters.
The Council shall provide a submitter with prompt written notice of receipt of a request or appeal encompassing the business information of the submitter whenever required in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. Such written notice shall either describe the exact nature of the business information requested or provide copies of the records or portions of records containing the business information. When a voluminous number of submitters must be notified, the Council may post or publish such notice in a place reasonably likely to accomplish such notification.
(e)
When notice is required.
The Council shall provide a submitter with notice of receipt of a request or appeal whenever:
(1) The information has been designated in good faith by the submitter as information considered protected from disclosure under Exemption 4; or
(2) The Council has reason to believe that the information may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 because disclosure could reasonably be expected to cause substantial competitive harm to the submitter.
(f)
Opportunity to object to disclosure.
(1) Through the notice described in paragraph (d) of this section, the Council shall notify the submitter in writing that the submitter shall have ten (10) days from the date of the notice (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) to provide the Council with a detailed statement of any objection to disclosure. Such statement shall specify all grounds for withholding any of the information under Exemption 4, including a statement of why the information is considered to be a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential. In the event that the submitter fails to respond to the notice within the time specified, the submitter shall be considered to have no objection to disclosure of the information. Information provided by a submitter pursuant to this paragraph (f) may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(2) When notice is given to a submitter under this section, the Council shall advise the requester that such notice has been given to the submitter. The requester shall be further advised that a delay in responding to the request may be considered a denial of access to records and that the requester may proceed with an administrative appeal or seek judicial review, if appropriate. However, the Council shall invite the requester to agree to an extension of time so that the Council may review the submitter's objection to disclosure.
(g)
Notice of intent to disclose.
The Council shall consider carefully a submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure prior to determining whether to disclose business information responsive to the request. If the Council decides to disclose business information over the objection of a submitter, the Council shall provide the submitter with a written notice which shall include:
(1) A statement of the reasons for which the submitter's disclosure objections were not sustained;
(2) A description of the business information to be disclosed; and
(3) A specified disclosure date which is not less than ten (10) days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the notice of the final decision to release the requested information has been provided to the submitter. Except as otherwise prohibited
by law, notice of the final decision to release the requested information shall be forwarded to the requester at the same time.
(h)
Notice of FOIA lawsuit.
Whenever a requester brings suit seeking to compel disclosure of business information covered in paragraph (c) of this section, the Council shall promptly notify the submitter.
(i)
Exception to notice requirement.
The notice requirements of this section shall not apply if:
(1) The Council determines that the information shall not be disclosed;
(2) The information lawfully has been published or otherwise made available to the public; or
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by statute (other than the FOIA) or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12600 (3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 235).
§ 1301.11
Administrative appeals and dispute resolution.
(a)
Grounds for administrative appeals.
A requester may appeal an initial determination of the Council, including but not limited to a determination:
(1) To deny access to records in whole or in part (as provided in § 1301.8(b)(3));
(2) To assign a particular fee category to the requester (as provided in § 1301.12(c));
(3) To deny a request for a reduction or waiver of fees (as provided in § 1301.12(f)(7));
(4) That no records could be located that are responsive to the request (as provided in § 1301.8(b)(4)); or
(5) To deny a request for expedited processing (as provided in § 1301.7(c)(5)).
(b)
Time limits for filing administrative appeals.
An appeal must be submitted within ninety (90) days of the date of the initial determination or the date of the letter transmitting the last records released, whichever is later, or, in the case of an appeal of a denial of expedited processing, within ninety (90) days of the date of the initial determination to deny expedited processing (see § 1301.7).
(c)
Form and content of administrative appeals.
The appeal shall—
(1) Be made in writing or, as set forth on the Council's Web site, via the Internet;
(2) Be clearly marked on the appeal request and any envelope that encloses it with the words “Freedom of Information Act Appeal” and addressed to Financial Stability Oversight Council, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20220;
(3) Set forth the name of and contact information for the requester, including a mailing address, telephone number, and, if available, an email address at which the Council may contact the requester regarding the appeal;
(4) Specify the date of the initial request and date of the letter of initial determination, and, where possible, enclose a copy of the initial request and the initial determination being appealed; and
(5) Set forth specific grounds for the appeal.
(d)
Processing of administrative appeals.
Appeals shall be stamped with the date of their receipt by the office to which addressed, and shall be processed in the approximate order of their receipt. The receipt of the appeal shall be acknowledged by the Council and the requester advised of the date the appeal was received and the expected date of response.
(e)
Determinations to grant or deny administrative appeals.
The Chairperson of the Council or his/her designee is authorized to and shall decide whether to affirm or reverse the initial determination (in whole or in part), and shall notify the requester of this decision in writing within twenty (20) days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the date of receipt of the appeal, unless extended pursuant to § 1301.7(e).
(1) If it is decided that the appeal is to be denied (in whole or in part) the requester shall be—
(i) Notified in writing of the denial;
(ii) Notified of the reasons for the denial, including the FOIA exemptions relied upon;
(iii) Notified of the name and title or position of the official responsible for the determination on appeal;
(iv) Provided with a statement that judicial review of the denial is available in the United States District Court for the judicial district in which the requester resides or has a principal place of business, the judicial district in which the requested records are located, or the District of Columbia in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(B); and
(v) Provided with notification that mediation services may be available to the requester as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation through the Office of Government Information Services in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(h)(3).
(2) If the Council grants the appeal in its entirety, the Council shall so notify the requester and promptly process the request in accordance with the decision on appeal.
(f)
Dispute resolution.
Requesters may seek dispute resolution by contacting the FOIA Public Liaison or the Office of Government Information Services as set forth on the Council's Web site.
§ 1301.12
Fees for processing requests for Council records.
(a)
In general.
The Council shall charge the requester for processing a request under the FOIA in the amounts and for the services set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, except if a waiver or reduction of fees is granted under paragraph (f) of this section, or if, pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the failure of the Council to comply with certain time limits precludes it from assessing certain fees. No fees shall be charged if the amount of fees incurred in processing the request is below $25.
(b)
Fees chargeable for specific services.
The fees for services performed by the Council shall be imposed and collected as set forth in this paragraph (b).
(1)
Duplicating records.
The Council shall charge a requester fees for the cost of copying records as follows:
(i) $0.08 per page, up to 8
1/2
x 14″, made by photocopy or similar process.
(ii) Photographs, films, and other materials—actual cost of duplication.
(iii) Other types of duplication services not mentioned above—actual cost.
(iv) Material provided to a private contractor for copying shall be charged to the requester at the actual cost charged by the private contractor.
(2)
Search services.
The Council shall charge a requester for all time spent by its employees searching for records that are responsive to a request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of responsive information within records, even if no responsive records are found. The Council shall charge the requester fees for search time as follows:
(i)
Searches for other than electronic records.
The Council shall charge for search time at the salary rate(s) (basic pay plus sixteen (16) percent) of the employee(s) who conduct the search. This charge shall also include transportation of employees and records at actual cost. Fees may be charged for search time even if the search does not yield any responsive records, or if records are exempt from disclosure.
(ii)
Searches for electronic records.
The Council shall charge the requester for the actual direct cost of the search, including computer search time, runs, and the operator's salary. The fee for computer output shall be the actual direct cost. For a requester in the “other” category, when the cost of the search (including the operator time and the cost of operating the computer to process a request) equals the equivalent dollar amount of two hours of the salary of the person performing the search (
i.e.,
the operator), the charge for the computer search will begin.
(3)
Review of records.
The Council shall charge a requester for time spent by its employees examining responsive records to determine whether any portions of such record are withholdable from disclosure, pursuant to the FOIA exemptions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b). The Council shall also charge a requester for time spent by its employees redacting any such withholdable information from a record and preparing a record for release to the requester. The Council shall charge a requester for time spent reviewing records at the salary rate(s) (
i.e.,
basic pay plus sixteen (16) percent) of the employees who conduct the review. Fees may be charged for review time even if records ultimately are not disclosed.
(4)
Inspection of records in the reading room.
Fees for all services provided
shall be charged whether or not copies are made available to the requester for inspection. However, no fee shall be charged for monitoring a requester's inspection of records.
(5)
Other services.
Other services and materials requested which are not covered by this part nor required by the FOIA are chargeable at the actual cost to the Council. Charges permitted under this paragraph may include:
(i) Certifying that records are true copies; and
(ii) Sending records by special methods (such as by express mail, etc.).
(c)
Fees applicable to various categories of requesters
—(1)
Generally.
The Council shall assess the fees set forth in paragraph (b) of this section in accordance with the requester fee categories set forth below.
(2)
Requester selection of fee category.
A requester shall identify, in the initial FOIA request, the purpose of the request in one of the following categories:
(i)
Commercial.
A commercial use request refers to a request from or on behalf of a person who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or the person on whose behalf the request is made, which can include furthering those interests through litigation. The Council may determine from the use specified in the request that the requester is a commercial user.
(ii)
Educational institution.
This refers to a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of professional education, and an institution of vocational education, which operates a program or programs of scholarly research. This includes a request from a teacher or student at any such institution making the request in connection with his or her role at the educational institution.
(iii)
Non-commercial scientific institution.
This refers to an institution that is not operated on a “commercial” basis, as that term is defined in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
(iv)
Representative of the news media.
This refers to any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. In this paragraph (c)(2)(iv), the term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news-media entities are television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large and publishers of periodicals (but only if such entities qualify as disseminators of “news”) who make their products available for purchase by subscription or by free distribution to the general public. These examples are not all-inclusive. Moreover, as methods of news delivery evolve (for example, the adoption of the electronic dissemination of newspapers through telecommunications services), such alternative media shall be considered to be news media entities. A freelance journalist shall be regarded as working for a news media entity if the journalist can demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that entity, whether or not the journalist is actually employed by the entity. A publication contract would present a solid basis for such an expectation; the Council may also consider the past publication record of the requester in making such a determination.
(v)
Other requester.
This refers to a requester who does not fall within any of the categories described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i)-(iv) of this section.
(d)
Fees applicable to each category of requester.
The Council shall apply the fees set forth in this paragraph, for each category described in paragraph (c) of this section, to requests processed by the Council under the FOIA.
(1)
Commercial use.
A requester seeking records for commercial use shall be charged the full direct costs of searching for, reviewing, and duplicating the records they request as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Moreover,
when a request is received for disclosure that is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester, the Council is not required to consider a request for a waiver or reduction of fees based upon the assertion that disclosure would be in the public interest. The Council may recover the cost of searching for and reviewing records even if there is ultimately no disclosure of records or no records are located.
(2)
Educational and non-commercial scientific uses.
A requester seeking records for educational or non-commercial scientific use shall be charged only for the cost of duplicating the records they request, except that the Council shall provide the first one hundred (100) pages of duplication free of charge. To be eligible, the requester must show that the request is made in connection with the requester's role at an educational institution or is made under the auspices of a non-commercial scientific institution and that the records are not sought for a commercial use, but are sought in furtherance of scholarly (if the request is from an educational institution) or scientific (if the request is from a non-commercial scientific institution) research.
(3)
News media uses.
A requester seeking records under the news media use category shall be charged only for the cost of duplicating the records they request, except that the Council shall provide the requester with the first one hundred (100) pages of duplication free of charge.
(4)
Other requests.
A requester seeking records for any other use shall be charged the full direct cost of searching for and duplicating records that are responsive to the request, as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, except that the Council shall provide the first one hundred (100) pages of duplication and the first two hours of search time free of charge. The Council may recover the cost of searching for records even if there is ultimately no disclosure of records, or no records are located.
(e)
Other circumstances when fees are not charged.
(1) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the Council may not charge a requester a fee for processing a FOIA request if—
(i) Services were performed without charge;
(ii) The cost of collecting a fee would be equal to or greater than the fee itself; or
(iii) The fees were waived or reduced in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the Council may not charge a requester search fees or, in the case of a requester described in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) through (iv) of this section, duplication fees if the Council fails to comply with any time limit under § 1301.7 or § 1301.11; provided that:
(i) If unusual circumstances (as that term is defined in § 1301.7(e)) apply to the processing of the request and the Council has provided a timely notice to the requester in accordance with § 1301.7(e)(1), then a failure to comply with such time limit shall be excused for an additional ten days;
(ii) If unusual circumstances (as that term is defined in § 1301.7(e)) apply to the processing of the request, more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, the Council has provided a timely written notice to the requester in accordance with § 1301.7(e)(2), and the Council has discussed with the requester via written mail, electronic mail, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with § 1301.7(e)(2), then the Council may charge a requester such fees; and
(iii) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, then a failure to comply with such time limit shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
(f)
Waiver or reduction of fees.
(1) A requester shall be entitled to receive from the Council a waiver or reduction in the fees otherwise applicable to a FOIA request whenever the requester:
(i) Requests such waiver or reduction of fees in writing and submits the written request to the Council together with or as part of the FOIA request, or at a later time consistent with § 1301.5(b)(7) to process the request; and
(ii) Demonstrates that the fee reduction or waiver request is in the public interest because:
(A) Furnishing the information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government; and
(B) Furnishing the information is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(2) To determine whether the requester has satisfied the requirements of paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, the Council shall consider:
(i) The subject of the requested records must concern identifiable operations or activities of the federal government, with a connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated;
(ii) The disclosable portions of the requested records must be meaningfully informative about government operations or activities in order to be “likely to contribute” to an increased public understanding of those operations or activities. The disclosure of information that already is in the public domain, in either a duplicative or a substantially identical form, would not be as likely to contribute to such understanding where nothing new would be added to the public's understanding;
(iii) The disclosure must contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. A requester's expertise in the subject area and ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public shall be considered. It shall be presumed that a representative of the news media will satisfy this consideration.
(iv) The public's understanding of the subject in question, as compared to the level of public understanding existing prior to the disclosure, must be enhanced by the disclosure to a significant extent.
(3) To determine whether the requester satisfies the requirement of paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, the Council shall consider:
(i) Any commercial interest of the requester (with reference to the definition of “commercial use” in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section), or of any person on whose behalf the requester may be acting, that would be furthered by the requested disclosure. In the administrative process, a requester may provide explanatory information regarding this consideration; and
(ii) Whether the public interest is greater in magnitude than that of any identified commercial interest in disclosure. The Council ordinarily shall presume that, if a news media requester satisfies the public interest standard, the public interest will be the interest primarily served by disclosure to that requester. Disclosure to data brokers or others who merely compile and market government information for direct economic return shall not be presumed to primarily serve the public interest.
(4) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a waiver or reduction of fees, a waiver or reduction shall be granted for those records.
(5)
Determination of request to reduce or waive fees.
The Council shall notify the requester in writing regarding its determinations to reduce or waive fees.
(6)
Effect of denying request to reduce or waive fees.
If the Council denies a request to reduce or waive fees, then the Council shall advise the requester, in the denial notification letter, that the requester may incur fees as a result of processing the request. In the denial notification letter, the Council shall advise the requester that the Council will not proceed to process the request further unless the requester, in writing, directs the Council to do so and either agrees to pay any fees that may apply to processing the request or specifies an upper limit (of not less than $25) that the requester is willing to pay to process the request. If the Council does not receive this written direction and agreement/specification within thirty (30) days of the date of the denial notification letter, then the Council shall deem the FOIA request to be withdrawn.
(7)
Appeals of denials of requests to reduce or waive fees.
If the Council denies a request to reduce or waive fees, then the requester shall have the right to submit an appeal of the denial determination in accordance with § 1301.11. The Council shall communicate this
appeal right as part of its written notification to the requester denying the fee reduction or waiver request. The requester shall clearly mark its appeal request and any envelope that encloses it with the words “Appeal for Fee Reduction/Waiver.”
(g)
Notice of estimated fees; advance payments.
(1) When the Council estimates the fees for processing a request will exceed the limit set by the requester, and that amount is less than $250, the Council shall notify the requester of the estimated costs, broken down by search, review and duplication fees. The requester must provide an agreement to pay the estimated costs, except that the requester may reformulate the request in an attempt to reduce the estimated fees.
(2) If the requester fails to state a limit and the costs are estimated to exceed $250, the requester shall be notified of the estimated costs, broken down by search, review and duplication fees, and must pay such amount prior to the processing of the request, or provide satisfactory assurance of full payment if the requester has a history of prompt payment of FOIA fees. Alternatively, the requester may reformulate the request in such a way as to constitute a request for responsive records at a reduced fee.
(3) The Council reserves the right to request advance payment after a request is processed and before records are released.
(4) If a requester previously has failed to pay a fee within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the billing, the requester shall be required to pay the full amount owed plus any applicable interest, and to make an advance payment of the full amount of the estimated fee before the Council begins to process a new request or the pending request.
(h)
Form of payment.
Payment may be made by check or money order paid to the Treasurer of the United States.
(i)
Charging interest.
The Council may charge interest on any unpaid bill starting on the 31st day following the date of billing the requester. Interest charges will be assessed at the rate provided in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will accrue from the date of the billing until payment is received by the Council. The Council will follow the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-365, 96 Stat. 1749), as amended, and its administrative procedures, including the use of consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.
(j)
Aggregating requests.
If the Council reasonably determines that a requester or a group of requesters acting together is attempting to divide a request into a series of requests for the purpose of avoiding fees, the Council may aggregate those requests and charge accordingly. The Council may presume that multiple requests involving related matters submitted within a thirty (30) calendar day period have been made in order to avoid fees. The Council shall not aggregate multiple requests involving unrelated matters.
Pt. 1310

# PART 1310—AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE SUPERVISION AND REGULATION OF CERTAIN NONBANK FINANCIAL COMPANIES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1310.1
Authority and purpose.
1310.2
Definitions.
1310.3
Amendments.

# Subpart B—Determinations
1310.10
Council determinations regarding nonbank financial companies.
1310.11
Considerations in making proposed and final determinations.
1310.12
Anti-evasion provision.

# Subpart C—Information Collection; Proposed and Final Determinations; Evidentiary Hearings
1310.20
Council information collection; consultation; coordination; confidentiality.
1310.21
Proposed and final determinations; notice and opportunity for an evidentiary hearing.
1310.22
Emergency exception to § 1310.21.
1310.23
Council reevaluation and rescission of determinations.
Appendix A to Part 1310—Financial Stability Oversight Council Guidance for Nonbank Financial Company Determinations

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5321; 12 U.S.C. 5322; 12 U.S.C. 5323.

# Source:
77 FR 21651, Apr. 11, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1310.1
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the Council under sections 111, 112 and 113 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) (12 U.S.C. 5321, 5322, and 5323).
(b)
Purpose.
The principal purposes of this part are to set forth the standards and procedures governing Council determinations under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5323), including whether material financial distress at a nonbank financial company, or the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the activities of the nonbank financial company, could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States, and whether a nonbank financial company shall be supervised by the Board of Governors and shall be subject to prudential standards in accordance with title I of the Dodd-Frank Act.
§ 1310.2
Definitions.
The terms used in this part have the following meanings—
Board of Governors.
The term “Board of Governors” means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Commission.
The term “Commission” means the Securities and Exchange Commission, except in the context of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Council.
The term “Council” means the Financial Stability Oversight Council.
Federal Insurance Office.
The term “Federal Insurance Office” means the office established within the Department of the Treasury by section 502(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act (31 U.S.C. 301 (note)).
Foreign nonbank financial company.
The term “foreign nonbank financial company” means a company (other than a company that is, or is treated in the United States as, a bank holding company) that is—
(1) Incorporated or organized in a country other than the United States; and
(2) “Predominantly engaged in financial activities,” as that term is defined in section 102(a)(6) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5311(a)(6)) and pursuant to any requirements for determining if a company is predominantly engaged in financial activities as established by regulation of the Board of Governors pursuant to section 102(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5311(b)), including through a branch in the United States.
Hearing date.
The term “hearing date” means the latest of—
(1) The date on which the Council has received all of the written materials timely submitted by a nonbank financial company for a hearing that is conducted without oral testimony pursuant to § 1310.21 or § 1310.22, as applicable;
(2) The final date on which the Council or its representatives convene to hear oral testimony presented by a nonbank financial company pursuant to § 1310.21 or § 1310.22, as applicable; and
(3) The date on which the Council has received all of the written materials timely submitted by a nonbank financial company to supplement any oral testimony and materials presented by the nonbank financial company pursuant to § 1310.21 or § 1310.22, as applicable.
Member agency.
The term “member agency” means an agency represented by a voting member of the Council under section 111(b)(1) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5321).
Nonbank financial company.
The term “nonbank financial company” means a U.S. nonbank financial company or a foreign nonbank financial company.
Office of Financial Research.
The term “Office of Financial Research” means the office established within the Department of the Treasury by section 152 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5342).
Primary financial regulatory agency.
The term “primary financial regulatory agency” means—
(1) The appropriate Federal banking agency, with respect to institutions described in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)), except to the extent that an institution is or the activities of an institution are otherwise described in paragraph (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition;
(2) The Commission, with respect to—
(i) Any broker or dealer that is registered with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, with respect to the activities of the broker or dealer that require the broker or dealer to be registered under that Act;
(ii) Any investment company that is registered with the Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940, with respect to the activities of the investment company that require the investment company to be registered under that Act;
(iii) Any investment adviser that is registered with the Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, with respect to the investment advisory activities of such company and activities that are incidental to such advisory activities;
(iv) Any clearing agency registered with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, with respect to the activities of the clearing agency that require the agency to be registered under such Act;
(v) Any nationally recognized statistical rating organization registered with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(vi) Any transfer agent registered with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(vii) Any exchange registered as a national securities exchange with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(viii) Any national securities association registered with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(ix) Any securities information processor registered with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(x) The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board established under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(xi) The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board established under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7201
et seq.
);
(xii) The Securities Investor Protection Corporation established under the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 78aaa
et seq.
); and
(xiii) Any security-based swap execution facility, security-based swap data repository, security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant registered with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, with respect to the security-based swap activities of the person that require such person to be registered under such Act;
(3) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, with respect to—
(i) Any futures commission merchant registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), with respect to the activities of the futures commission merchant that require the futures commission merchant to be registered under that Act;
(ii) Any commodity pool operator registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), with respect to the activities of the commodity pool operator that require the commodity pool operator to be registered under that Act, or a commodity pool, as defined in that Act;
(iii) Any commodity trading advisor or introducing broker registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), with respect to the activities of the commodity trading advisor or introducing broker that require the commodity trading advisor or introducing broker to be registered under that Act;
(iv) Any derivatives clearing organization registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), with respect to the activities of the derivatives clearing organization that require the derivatives clearing organization to be registered under that Act;
(v) Any board of trade designated as a contract market by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
);
(vi) Any futures association registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
);
(vii) Any retail foreign exchange dealer registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), with respect to the activities of the retail foreign exchange dealer that require the retail foreign exchange dealer to be registered under that Act;
(viii) Any swap execution facility, swap data repository, swap dealer, or major swap participant registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
) with respect to the swap activities of the person that require such person to be registered under that Act; and
(ix) Any registered entity as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a), with respect to the activities of the registered entity that require the registered entity to be registered under that Act;
(4) The State insurance authority of the State in which an insurance company is domiciled, with respect to the insurance activities and activities that are incidental to such insurance activities of an insurance company that is subject to supervision by the State insurance authority under State insurance law; and
(5) The Federal Housing Finance Agency, with respect to Federal Home Loan Banks or the Federal Home Loan Bank System, and with respect to the Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
Prudential standards.
The term “prudential standards” means enhanced supervision and regulatory standards established by the Board of Governors under section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5365).
Significant companies.
The terms “significant nonbank financial company” and “significant bank holding company” have the meanings ascribed to such terms by regulation of the Board of Governors issued under section 102(a)(7) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5311(a)(7)).
U.S. nonbank financial company.
The term “U.S. nonbank financial company” means a company (other than a bank holding company; a Farm Credit System institution chartered and subject to the provisions of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001
et seq.
); a national securities exchange (or parent thereof), clearing agency (or parent thereof, unless the parent is a bank holding company), security-based swap execution facility, or security-based swap data repository registered with the Commission; a board of trade designated as a contract market by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (or parent thereof); or a derivatives clearing organization (or parent thereof, unless the parent is a bank holding company), swap execution facility, or swap data repository registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission), that is—
(1) Incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States or any State; and
(2) “Predominantly engaged in financial activities,” as that term is defined in section 102(a)(6) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5311(a)(6)), and pursuant to any requirements for determining if a company is predominantly engaged in financial activities as established by regulation of the Board of Governors pursuant to section 102(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5311(b)).
§ 1310.3
Amendments.
The Council shall not amend or rescind appendix A to this part without providing the public with notice and an opportunity to comment in accordance with the procedures applicable to legislative rules under 5 U.S.C. 553.
[84 FR 8959, Mar. 13, 2019]

# Subpart B—Determinations
§ 1310.10
Council determinations regarding nonbank financial companies.
(a)
Determinations.
The Council may determine that a nonbank financial company shall be supervised by the Board of Governors and shall be subject to prudential standards, in accordance with title I of the Dodd-Frank Act, if the Council determines that material financial distress at the nonbank financial company, or the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the activities of the nonbank financial company, could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
(b)
Vote required.
Any proposed or final determination under paragraph (a) of this section shall—
(1) Be made by the Council and shall not be delegated by the Council; and
(2) Require the vote of not fewer than two-thirds of the voting members of the Council then serving, including the affirmative vote of the Chairperson of the Council.
(c)
Back-up examination by the Board of Governors.
(1) If the Council is unable to determine whether the financial activities of a U.S. nonbank financial company, including a U.S. nonbank financial company that is owned by a foreign nonbank financial company, pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States, based on information or reports obtained by the Council under § 1310.20, including discussions with management, and publicly available information, the Council may request the Board of Governors, and the Board of Governors is authorized, to conduct an examination of the U.S. nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries for the sole purpose of determining whether the nonbank financial company should be supervised by the Board of Governors for purposes of title I of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5311-5374).
(2) The Council shall review the results of the examination of a nonbank financial company, including its subsidiaries, conducted by the Board of Governors under this paragraph (c) in connection with any proposed or final determination under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to the nonbank financial company.
§ 1310.11
Considerations in making proposed and final determinations.
(a)
Considerations for U.S. nonbank financial companies.
In making a proposed or final determination under § 1310.10(a) with respect to a U.S. nonbank financial company, the Council shall consider—
(1) The extent of the leverage of the U.S. nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries;
(2) The extent and nature of the off-balance-sheet exposures of the U.S. nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries;
(3) The extent and nature of the transactions and relationships of the U.S. nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries with other significant nonbank financial companies and significant bank holding companies;
(4) The importance of the U.S. nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries as a source of credit for households, businesses, and State and local governments and as a source of liquidity for the United States financial system;
(5) The importance of the U.S. nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries as a source of credit for low-income, minority, or underserved communities, and the impact that the failure of such U.S. nonbank financial company would have on the availability of credit in such communities;
(6) The extent to which assets are managed rather than owned by the U.S. nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries, and the extent to which ownership of assets under management is diffuse;
(7) The nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, and mix of the activities of the U.S. nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries;
(8) The degree to which the U.S. nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries are already regulated by 1 or more primary financial regulatory agencies;
(9) The amount and nature of the financial assets of the U.S. nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries;
(10) The amount and types of the liabilities of the U.S. nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries, including the degree of reliance on short-term funding; and
(11) Any other risk-related factor that the Council deems appropriate, either by regulation or on a case-by-case basis.
(b)
Considerations for foreign nonbank financial companies.
In making a proposed or final determination under § 1310.10(a) with respect to a foreign nonbank financial company, the Council shall consider—
(1) The extent of the leverage of the foreign nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries;
(2) The extent and nature of the United States related off-balance-sheet exposures of the foreign nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries;
(3) The extent and nature of the transactions and relationships of the foreign nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries with other significant nonbank financial companies and significant bank holding companies;
(4) The importance of the foreign nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries as a source of credit for United States households, businesses, and State and local governments and as a source of liquidity for the United States financial system;
(5) The importance of the foreign nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries as a source of credit for low-income, minority, or underserved communities in the United States, and the impact that the failure of such foreign nonbank financial company would have on the availability of credit in such communities;
(6) The extent to which assets are managed rather than owned by the foreign nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries and the extent to which ownership of assets under management is diffuse;
(7) The nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, and mix of the activities of the foreign nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries;
(8) The extent to which the foreign nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries are subject to prudential standards on a consolidated basis in the foreign nonbank financial company's home country that are administered and enforced by a comparable foreign supervisory authority;
(9) The amount and nature of the United States financial assets of the foreign nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries;
(10) The amount and nature of the liabilities of the foreign nonbank financial company and its subsidiaries used to fund activities and operations in the United States, including the degree of reliance on short-term funding; and
(11) Any other risk-related factor that the Council deems appropriate, either by regulation or on a case-by-case basis.
§ 1310.12
Anti-evasion provision.
(a)
Determinations.
In order to avoid evasion of title I of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5311-5374) or this part, the Council, on its own initiative or at the request of the Board of Governors, may require that the financial activities of a company shall be supervised by the Board of Governors and subject to prudential standards if the Council determines that—
(1) Material financial distress related to, or the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of, the financial activities conducted directly or indirectly by a company incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States or any State or the financial activities in the United States of a company incorporated or organized in a country other than the United States would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States, based on consideration of the factors in—
(i) § 1310.11(a) if the company is incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States or any State; or
(ii) § 1310.11(b) if the company is incorporated or organized in a country other than the United States; and
(2) The company is organized or operates in such a manner as to evade the application of title I of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5311-5374) or this part.
(b)
Vote required.
Any proposed or final determination under paragraph (a) of this section shall—
(1) Be made by the Council and shall not be delegated by the Council; and
(2) Require the vote of not fewer than two-thirds of the voting members of the Council then serving, including the affirmative vote of the Chairperson of the Council.
(c)
Definition of covered financial activities.
For purposes of this section, the term “financial activities”—
(1) Means activities that are financial in nature (as defined in section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956);
(2) Includes the ownership or control of one or more insured depository institutions; and
(3) Does not include internal financial activities conducted for the company or any affiliate thereof, including
internal treasury, investment, and employee benefit functions.
(d)
Application of other provisions.
Sections 1310.20(a), 1310.20(b), 1310.20(c), 1310.20(e), 1310.21, 1310.22, and 1310.23, and the definitions referred to therein, shall apply to proposed and final determinations of the Council with respect to the financial activities of a company pursuant to this section in the same manner as such sections apply to proposed and final determinations of the Council with respect to nonbank financial companies.

# Subpart C—Information Collection; Proposed and Final Determinations; Evidentiary Hearings
§ 1310.20
Council information collection; consultation; coordination; confidentiality.
(a)
Information collection from the Office of Financial Research, member agencies, the Federal Insurance Office, and other Federal and State financial regulatory agencies.
The Council may receive, and may request the submission of, such data or information from the Office of Financial Research, member agencies, the Federal Insurance Office, and (acting through the Office of Financial Research, to the extent the Council determines necessary) other Federal and State financial regulatory agencies as the Council deems necessary to carry out the provisions of title I of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5311-5374) or this part.
(b)
Information collection from nonbank financial companies.
(1) The Council may, to the extent the Council determines appropriate, direct the Office of Financial Research to require the submission of periodic and other reports from any nonbank financial company, including a nonbank financial company that is being considered for a proposed or final determination under § 1310.10(a), for the purpose of assessing the extent to which a nonbank financial company poses a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
(2) Before requiring the submission of reports under this paragraph (b) from any nonbank financial company that is regulated by a member agency or any primary financial regulatory agency, the Council, acting through the Office of Financial Research, shall coordinate with such agency or agencies and shall, whenever possible, rely on information available from the Office of Financial Research or such agency or agencies.
(3) Before requiring the submission of reports under this paragraph (b) from a company that is a foreign nonbank financial company, the Council shall, acting through the Office of Financial Research, to the extent appropriate, consult with the appropriate foreign regulator of such foreign nonbank financial company and, whenever possible, rely on information already being collected by such foreign regulator, with English translation.
(4) The Council may, to the extent the Council determines appropriate, accept the submission of any data, information, and reports voluntarily submitted by any nonbank financial company that is being considered for a proposed or final determination under § 1310.10(a), for the purpose of assessing the extent to which a nonbank financial company poses a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
(c)
Consultation.
The Council shall consult with the primary financial regulatory agency, if any, for each nonbank financial company or subsidiary of a nonbank financial company that is being considered for supervision by the Board of Governors under § 1310.10(a) in a timely manner before the Council makes any final determination under § 1310.10(a) with respect to such nonbank financial company.
(d)
International coordination.
In exercising its duties under this part with respect to foreign nonbank financial companies and cross-border activities and markets, the Council, acting through its Chairperson or other authorized designee, shall consult with appropriate foreign regulatory authorities, to the extent appropriate.
(e)
Confidentiality
—(1)
In general.
The Council shall maintain the confidentiality of any data, information, and reports submitted under this part.
(2)
Retention of privilege.
The submission of any non-publicly available data or information under this part shall not constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect, any privilege arising under Federal or State law (including the rules of
any Federal or State court) to which the data or information is otherwise subject.
(3)
Freedom of Information Act.
Section 552 of title 5, United States Code, including the exceptions thereunder, and any regulations thereunder adopted by the Council, shall apply to any data, information, and reports submitted under this part.
§ 1310.21
Proposed and final determinations; notice and opportunity for an evidentiary hearing.
(a)
Written notice of consideration of determination; submission of materials.
Before providing a nonbank financial company written notice of a proposed determination pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the Council shall provide the nonbank financial company—
(1) Written notice that the Council is considering whether to make a proposed determination with respect to the nonbank financial company under § 1310.10(a);
(2) An opportunity to submit written materials, within such time as the Council determines to be appropriate (which shall be not less than 30 days after the date of receipt by the nonbank financial company of the notice described in paragraph (a)(1)), to the Council to contest the Council's consideration of the nonbank financial company for a proposed determination, including materials concerning whether, in the nonbank financial company's view, material financial distress at the nonbank financial company, or the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the activities of the nonbank financial company, could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States; and
(3) Notice when the Council deems its evidentiary record regarding such nonbank financial company to be complete.
(b)
Notice of proposed determination.
If the Council determines under § 1310.10(a) that a nonbank financial company should be supervised by the Board of Governors and be subject to prudential standards, the Council shall provide to the nonbank financial company written notice of the proposed determination, including an explanation of the basis of the proposed determination and the date by which an evidentiary hearing may be requested by the nonbank financial company under paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Evidentiary hearing.
(1) Not later than 30 days after the date of receipt by a nonbank financial company of the notice of proposed determination under paragraph (b) of this section, the nonbank financial company may request, in writing, an opportunity for a nonpublic, written or oral evidentiary hearing before the Council or its representatives to contest the proposed determination under § 1310.10(a).
(2) Upon receipt by the Council of a timely request under paragraph (c)(1), the Council shall fix a time (not later than 30 days after the date of receipt by the Council of the request) and place at which such nonbank financial company may appear, personally or through counsel, for a nonpublic evidentiary hearing at which the nonbank financial company may submit written materials (or, at the sole discretion of the Council, oral testimony and oral argument) to contest the proposed determination under § 1310.10(a), including materials concerning whether, in the nonbank financial company's view, material financial distress at the nonbank financial company, or the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the activities of the nonbank financial company, could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
(d)
Final determination after evidentiary hearing.
If the nonbank financial company makes a timely request for an evidentiary hearing under paragraph (c) of this section, the Council shall, not later than 60 days after the hearing date—
(1) Determine whether to make a final determination under § 1310.10(a);
(2) Notify the nonbank financial company, in writing, of any final determination of the Council under § 1310.10(a), which notice shall contain a statement of the basis for the decision of the Council; and
(3) If the Council makes a final determination under § 1310.10(a), publicly announce the final determination of the Council.
(e)
No evidentiary hearing requested.
If a nonbank financial company does not make a timely request for an evidentiary hearing under paragraph (c) of this section or notifies the Council in writing that it is not requesting an evidentiary hearing under paragraph (c) of this section, the Council shall, not later than 10 days after the date by which the nonbank financial company could have requested a hearing under paragraph (c) of this section or 10 days after the date on which the Council receives notice from the nonbank financial company that it is not requesting an evidentiary hearing, as applicable—
(1) Determine whether to make a final determination under § 1310.10(a);
(2) Notify the nonbank financial company, in writing, of any final determination of the Council under § 1310.10(a), which notice shall contain a statement of the basis for the decision of the Council; and
(3) If the Council makes a final determination under § 1310.10(a), publicly announce the final determination of the Council.
(f)
Time period for consideration.
(1) If the Council does not make a proposed determination under § 1310.10(a) with respect to a nonbank financial company within 180 days after the date on which the nonbank financial company receives the notice of completion of the Council's evidentiary record described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the nonbank financial company shall not be eligible for a proposed determination under § 1310.10(a) unless the Council issues a subsequent written notice of consideration of determination under paragraph (a) of this section to such nonbank financial company.
(2) This paragraph (f) shall not limit the Council's ability to issue a subsequent written notice of consideration of determination under § 1310.21(a) to any nonbank financial company that, within 180 days after the date on which such nonbank financial company received a notice described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, does not become subject to a proposed determination under § 1310.10(a).
§ 1310.22
Emergency exception to § 1310.21.
(a)
Exception to § 1310.21.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in § 1310.21, the Council may waive or modify any or all of the notice and other procedural requirements of § 1310.21 with respect to a nonbank financial company if—
(1) The Council determines that such waiver or modification is necessary or appropriate to prevent or mitigate threats posed by the nonbank financial company to the financial stability of the United States; and
(2) The Council provides written notice of the waiver or modification under this section to the nonbank financial company as soon as practicable, but not later than 24 hours after the waiver or modification is granted. Any such notice shall set forth the manner and form for transmitting a request for an evidentiary hearing under paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Consultation.
(1) In making a determination under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a nonbank financial company, the Council shall consult with the primary financial regulatory agency, if any, for such nonbank financial company, in such time and manner as the Council may deem appropriate.
(2) In making a determination under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a foreign nonbank financial company, the Council shall consult with the appropriate home country supervisor, if any, of such foreign nonbank financial company, in such time and manner as the Council may deem appropriate.
(c)
Opportunity for evidentiary hearing.
(1) If the Council, pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, waives or modifies any of the notice or other procedural requirements of § 1310.21 with respect to a nonbank financial company, the nonbank financial company may request, in writing, an opportunity for a nonpublic, written or oral evidentiary hearing before the Council or its representatives to contest such waiver or modification, not later than 10 days after the date of receipt by the
nonbank financial company of the notice described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) Upon receipt of a timely request for an evidentiary hearing under paragraph (c)(1), the Council shall fix a time (not later than 15 days after the date of receipt by the Council of the request) and place at which the nonbank financial company may appear, personally or through counsel, for a nonpublic evidentiary hearing at which the nonbank financial company may submit written materials (or, at the sole discretion of the Council, oral testimony and oral argument) regarding the waiver or modification under this section.
(d)
Notice of final determination.
If the nonbank financial company makes a timely request for an evidentiary hearing under paragraph (c) of this section, the Council shall, not later than 30 days after the hearing date—
(1) Make a final determination regarding the waiver or modification under this § 1310.22;
(2) Notify the nonbank financial company, in writing, of the final determination of the Council regarding the waiver or modification under this § 1310.22, which notice shall contain a statement of the basis for the final decision of the Council; and
(3) If the Council makes a final determination under § 1310.10(a), publicly announce the final determination of the Council.
(e)
Vote required.
Any determination of the Council under paragraph (a)(1) of this section to waive or modify any of the notice or other procedural requirements of § 1310.21 shall—
(1) Be made by the Council and shall not be delegated by the Council; and
(2) Require the vote of not fewer than two-thirds of the voting members of the Council then serving, including the affirmative vote of the Chairperson of the Council.
§ 1310.23
Council reevaluation and rescission of determinations.
(a)
Reevaluation and rescission.
The Council shall, not less frequently than annually—
(1) Reevaluate each currently effective determination made under § 1310.10(a); and
(2) Rescind any such determination, if the Council determines that the nonbank financial company no longer meets the standard under § 1310.10(a), taking into account the considerations in § 1310.11(a) or § 1310.11(b), as applicable.
(b)
Notice of reevaluation; submission of materials.
The Council shall provide written notice to each nonbank financial company subject to a currently effective determination prior to the Council's reevaluation of such determination under paragraph (a) of this section and shall provide such nonbank financial company an opportunity to submit written materials, within such time as the Council determines to be appropriate (which shall be not less than 30 days after the date of receipt by the nonbank financial company of such notice), to the Council to contest the determination, including materials concerning whether, in the nonbank financial company's view, material financial distress at the nonbank financial company, or the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the activities of the nonbank financial company, could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
(c)
Vote required.
Any determination of the Council under paragraph (a)(2) of this section to rescind a determination made with respect to a nonbank financial company shall—
(1) Be made by the Council and shall not be delegated by the Council; and
(2) Require the vote of not fewer than two-thirds of the voting members of the Council then serving, including the affirmative vote of the Chairperson of the Council.
(d)
Notice of rescission.
If the Council rescinds a determination with respect to any nonbank financial company under paragraph (a) of this section, the Council shall notify the nonbank financial company, in writing, of such rescission and publicly announce such rescission.
Pt. 1310, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1310—Financial Stability Oversight Council Guidance for Nonbank Financial Company Determinations

# I. Introduction
Section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act)
1
authorizes the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the Council) to determine that a nonbank financial company will be supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve Board) and be subject to prudential standards, in accordance with Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act, if either (1) the Council determines that material financial distress at the nonbank financial company could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability, or (2) the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the activities of the nonbank financial company could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability. Section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act lists the considerations that the Council must take into account in making a determination. This guidance supplements the Council's rule regarding nonbank financial company determinations.
2
1
12 U.S.C. 5323.
2
See 12 CFR part 1310.
Section II of this appendix outlines a two-stage process that the Council generally expects to follow when determining whether to subject a nonbank financial company to Federal Reserve Board supervision and prudential standards.
3
Section III sets forth the process the Council expects to follow in conducting reevaluations of its previous determinations.
3
The Council may waive or modify this process in its discretion if it determines that emergency circumstances exist, including if necessary or appropriate to prevent or mitigate threats posed by a nonbank financial company to U.S. financial stability in accordance with section 113(f) of the Dodd-Frank Act, 12 U.S.C. 5323(f).

# II. Process for Nonbank Financial Company Determinations
Under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Council may evaluate a nonbank financial company
4
for an entity-specific determination. This section describes the process the Council expects to follow in general for those reviews.
4
The Council intends to interpret the term “company” to include any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, business trust, association, or similar organization. See Dodd-Frank Act section 102(a)(4), 12 U.S.C. 5311(a)(4). In addition, the Council intends to interpret “nonbank financial company supervised by the Board of Governors” as including any nonbank financial company that acquires, directly or indirectly, a majority of the assets or liabilities of a company that is subject to a final determination of the Council. As a result, if a nonbank financial company subject to a final determination of the Council sells or otherwise transfers a majority of its assets or liabilities, the acquirer will succeed to, and become subject to, the Council's determination. As discussed in section III of this appendix A, a nonbank financial company that is subject to a final determination of the Council may request a reevaluation of the determination before the next required annual reevaluation, in an appropriate case. Such an acquirer can use this reevaluation process to seek a rescission of the determination upon consummation of its transaction.

# a. Overview of the Determination Process
As described in detail below, the Council expects generally to follow a two-stage process of evaluation and analysis when evaluating a nonbank financial company under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act. During the first stage of the process (Stage 1), a nonbank financial company identified for review will be notified as provided below and subject to a preliminary analysis, based on quantitative and qualitative information available to the Council primarily through public and regulatory sources. During Stage 1, the Council will permit, but not require, the company to submit relevant information. The Council will also consult with the company's primary financial regulatory agency
5
or home country supervisor, as appropriate. This approach will enable the Council to fulfill its statutory obligation to rely whenever possible on information available through the Office of Financial Research (the OFR), Council member agencies, or the nonbank financial company's primary financial regulatory agency before requiring the submission of reports from any nonbank financial company.
6
5
See Dodd-Frank Act section 2(12), 12 U.S.C. 5301(12). In each stage of the Council's process under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Council may also consult with, solicit information from, or coordinate with other state or federal financial regulatory agencies that have jurisdiction over the nonbank financial company or its activities.
6
See Dodd-Frank Act section 112(d)(3), 12 U.S.C. 5322(d)(3).
Following Stage 1, any nonbank financial company that is selected for additional review will receive notice that it is being considered for a proposed determination that the company will be supervised by the Federal Reserve Board and be subject to prudential standards under Title I of the Dodd-
Frank Act (a Proposed Determination) and that the company will be subject to in-depth evaluation during the second stage of review (Stage 2). Stage 2 will also involve the evaluation of additional information collected directly from the nonbank financial company. At the end of Stage 2, the Council may consider whether to make a Proposed Determination with respect to the nonbank financial company. If the Council makes a Proposed Determination, the nonbank financial company may request a hearing in accordance with section 113(e) of the Dodd-Frank Act and § 1310.21(c) of the Council's rule regarding nonbank financial company determinations.
7
After making a Proposed Determination and holding any written or oral hearing if requested, the Council may vote to make a final determination (a Final Determination).
7
See 12 CFR 1310.21(c).

# b. Stage 1: Preliminary Evaluation of Nonbank Financial Companies
Stage 1 involves a preliminary analysis of nonbank financial companies to assess the risks they could pose to U.S. financial stability. In light of the preliminary nature of a review in Stage 1, the Council expects that not all companies reviewed in Stage 1 will proceed to Stage 2 or a Final Determination.

# Identification of Company for Review in Stage 1
The Council may evaluate one or more individual nonbank financial companies for an entity-specific determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Council's staff-level committees are responsible for monitoring and analyzing financial markets, financial companies, the financial system, and issues related to financial stability. These committees monitor a broad range of asset classes, institutions, and activities, as described in the Council's Analytic Framework for Financial Stability Risk Identification, Assessment, and Response (the Analytic Framework), and as reflected in the Council's annual reports. In assessing potential risks, these committees consider the vulnerabilities, types of metrics, and transmission channels described in the Analytic Framework. These committees, in the course of their duties, will monitor each sector of the financial system at least annually and will report to the Deputies Committee
8
regarding potential risks to U.S. financial stability that they identify. With respect to these monitoring and reporting activities, the Council's Systemic Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring and reporting on each financial sector, including information on identified firms and activities that may pose risks that merit further review, unless another Council committee or working group provides such updates to the Deputies Committee on a particular sector. The updates to the Deputies Committee will use applicable metrics as described in the Analytic Framework. The Deputies Committee is responsible for directing, coordinating, and overseeing the work of the Systemic Risk Committee and all of the Council's other staff-level committees and working groups in accordance with this guidance. If an identified risk relates to one or more financial companies that may merit review in the context of a potential determination under section 113, the Council may review those companies in Stage 1. Alternatively, the Deputies Committee may direct a staff-level committee or working group to further assess the identified risks, including consideration of whether the risks could be addressed by a designation under section 113 or by use of a different Council authority, such as recommendations to existing regulators. The Deputies Committee may also direct the Council's Nonbank Financial Companies Designations Committee (the Nonbank Designations Committee)
9
to conduct an initial analysis of the companies based on the risk-assessment approach described in the Analytic Framework. The purpose of such an analysis by the Nonbank Designations Committee would be to further inform the determination regarding whether one or more companies should be reviewed in Stage 1, if needed. Following any such analysis by the Nonbank Designations Committee, the Council may review one or more companies in Stage 1. Any Council committee's identification, reporting, direction, analysis, or recommendation described in this paragraph will be made in accordance with such committee's bylaws or charter.
8
The Council's Deputies Committee is composed of senior officials from each Council member and member agency. See Bylaws of the Deputies Committee of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, available at
https://fsoc.gov.
9
The Nonbank Designations Committee supports the Council in fulfilling the Council's responsibilities to consider, make, and review Council determinations regarding nonbank financial companies under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act. See Charter of the Nonbank Financial Companies Designations Committee of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, available at
https://fsoc.gov.
When evaluating the potential risks associated with a nonbank financial company, the Council may consider the company and its subsidiaries separately or together. This approach enables the Council to consider potential risks arising across the entire organization, while retaining the ability to make a determination regarding either the parent or
any individual nonbank financial company subsidiary (or neither), depending on which entity the Council determines could pose a threat to financial stability.

# Engagement With Company and Regulators in Stage 1
The Council will provide a notice to any nonbank financial company under review in Stage 1 no later than 60 days before the Council votes on whether to evaluate the company in Stage 2. In Stage 1, the Council will consider available public and regulatory information. In order to reduce the burdens of review on the company, the Council will not require the company to submit information during Stage 1; however, a company under review in Stage 1 may submit to the Council any information relevant to the Council's evaluation and may, upon request, meet with staff of Council members and member agencies who are leading the Council's analysis. The Council may request a page-limited summary of the company's submissions. In addition, staff representing the Council will, upon request, provide the company with a list of the primary public sources of information being considered during the Stage 1 analysis, so that the company has an opportunity to understand the information the Council may rely upon during Stage 1. In addition, during discussions in Stage 1 with the company, the Council intends for representatives of the Council to indicate to the company potential risks that have been identified in the analysis. However, any potential risks identified at this stage are preliminary and may continue to develop until the Council makes a Final Determination. Through this engagement, the Council seeks to provide the company under review an opportunity to understand the focus of the Council's analysis, which may enable the company to act to mitigate any risks to financial stability and thereby potentially avoid becoming subject to a Council determination.
The Council will also consider in Stage 1 information available from relevant existing regulators of the company. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Council is required to consult with the primary financial regulatory agency, if any, for each nonbank financial company or subsidiary of a nonbank financial company that is being considered for a determination before the Council makes any Final Determination with respect to such company.
10
For any company under review in Stage 1 that is regulated by a primary financial regulatory agency or home country supervisor, the Council will notify the regulator or supervisor that the company is under review no later than the time the company is notified. The Council will also consult with the primary financial regulatory agency, if any, of each significant subsidiary of the nonbank financial company, to the extent the Council deems appropriate in Stage 1. The Council will actively solicit the regulator's views regarding risks at the company and potential mitigants or aggravating factors. In order to enable the regulator to provide relevant information, the Council will share its preliminary views regarding potential risks at the company, if any and to the extent practicable, and request that the regulator provide information regarding those specific risks, including the extent to which the risks are adequately mitigated by factors such as existing regulation or the company's business practices. During the determination process, the Council will encourage the regulator to address any risks to U.S. financial stability using the regulator's existing authorities; if the Council believes regulators' or the company's actions have adequately addressed the potential risks to U.S. financial stability the Council has identified, the Council may discontinue its consideration of the company for a potential determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
10
Dodd-Frank Act section 113(g), 12 U.S.C. 5323(g).
Based on the preliminary evaluation in Stage 1, the Council, on a nondelegable basis, may vote to commence a more detailed analysis of the company by advancing the company to Stage 2, or it may decide not to evaluate the company further. If the Council votes not to advance a company that has been reviewed in Stage 1 to Stage 2, the Council will notify the company in writing of the Council's decision. The notice will clarify that a decision not to advance the company from Stage 1 to Stage 2 at that time does not preclude the Council from reinitiating review of the company in Stage 1.

# c. Stage 2: In-Depth Evaluation
Stage 2 involves an in-depth evaluation of a nonbank financial company that the Council has determined merits additional review.
In Stage 2, the Council will review a nonbank financial company using information collected directly from the company, through the OFR, as well as public and regulatory information. The review will focus on whether material financial distress
11
at the nonbank financial company, or the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the activities of the company, could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability. The Analytic Framework describes the Council's approach to evaluating
potential risks to U.S. financial stability, including in the context of a review under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
11
The Council intends to interpret the term “material financial distress” as a nonbank financial company being in imminent danger of insolvency or defaulting on its financial obligations.

# Engagement With Company and Regulators in Stage 2
A nonbank financial company to be evaluated in Stage 2 will receive a notice (a Notice of Consideration) that the company is under consideration for a Proposed Determination. The Council also will submit to the company a request that the company provide information that the Council deems relevant to the Council's evaluation, and the nonbank financial company will be provided an opportunity to submit written materials to the Council.
12
This information will generally be collected by the OFR.
13
Before requiring the submission of reports from any nonbank financial company that is regulated by a Council member agency or a primary financial regulatory agency, the Council, acting through the OFR, will coordinate with such agencies and will, whenever possible, rely on information available from the OFR or such agencies. Council members and their agencies and staffs will maintain the confidentiality of such information in accordance with applicable law. During Stage 2, the company may also submit any other information that it deems relevant to the Council's evaluation. Information that may be considered by the Council includes details regarding the company's financial activities, legal structure, liabilities, counterparty exposures, resolvability, and existing regulatory oversight. Information requests likely will involve both qualitative and quantitative information. Information relevant to the Council's analysis may include confidential business information such as detailed information regarding financial assets, terms of funding arrangements, counterparty exposure or position data, strategic plans, and interaffiliate transactions.
12
See 12 CFR 1310.21(a).
13
See Dodd-Frank Act section 112(d), 12 U.S.C. 5322(d).
The Council will make staff representing Council members available to meet with the representatives of any company that enters Stage 2, to explain the evaluation process and the framework for the Council's analysis. In addition, the Council expects that its Deputies Committee will grant a request to meet with a company in Stage 2 to allow the company to present any information or arguments it deems relevant to the Council's evaluation. If the analysis in Stage 1 has identified specific aspects of the company's operations or activities as the primary focus for the evaluation, staff will notify the company of those specific aspects, although the areas of analytic focus may change based on the ongoing analysis.
During Stage 2 the Council will also seek to continue its consultation with the company's primary financial regulatory agency or home country supervisor in a timely manner before the Council makes a Proposed or Final Determination with respect to the company. The Council will continue to encourage the regulator during the determination process to address any risks to U.S. financial stability using the regulator's existing authorities; as noted above, if the Council believes regulators' or the company's actions adequately address the potential risks to U.S. financial stability the Council has identified, the Council would expect to discontinue its consideration of the company for a potential determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
Before making a Proposed Determination regarding a nonbank financial company, the Council will notify the company when the Council believes that the evidentiary record regarding the company is complete.
14
The Council will notify any nonbank financial company in Stage 2 if the company ceases to be considered for a determination. Any nonbank financial company that ceases to be considered at any time in the Council's determination process may be considered for a potential determination in the future at the Council's discretion, consistent with the processes described above.
14
See 12 CFR 1310.21(a)(3).

# d. Proposed and Final Determinations

# Proposed Determination
Based on the analysis performed in Stage 2, a nonbank financial company may be considered for a Proposed Determination. A Proposed Determination requires a vote, on a nondelegable basis, of two-thirds of the voting members of the Council then serving, including an affirmative vote by the Chairperson of the Council.
15
Following a Proposed Determination, the Council will issue a written notice of the Proposed Determination to the nonbank financial company, which will include an explanation of the basis of the Proposed Determination.
16
Promptly after the Council votes to make a Proposed Determination regarding a company, the Council will provide the company's primary financial regulatory agency or home country supervisor with the nonpublic written explanation of the basis of the Council's Proposed Determination (subject to appropriate protections for confidential information).
15
12 CFR 1310.10(b).
16
See Dodd-Frank Act section 113(e)(1), 12 U.S.C. 5323(e)(1).

# Hearing
A nonbank financial company that is subject to a Proposed Determination may request a nonpublic hearing to contest the Proposed Determination in accordance with section 113(e) of the Dodd-Frank Act and § 1310.21(c) of the Council's rule regarding nonbank financial company determinations.
17
If the nonbank financial company requests a hearing in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1310.21(c), the Council will set a time and place for such hearing. The Council has published hearing procedures on its website.
18
In light of the statutory timeframe for conducting a hearing, and the fact that the purpose of the hearing is to benefit the company, if a company requests that the Council waive the statutory deadline for conducting the hearing, the Council may do so in appropriate circumstances.
17
See 12 CFR 1310.21(c).
18
Financial Stability Oversight Council Hearing Procedures for Proceedings Under Title I or Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, available at
https://fsoc.gov
.

# Final Determination
After making a Proposed Determination and holding any requested written or oral hearing, the Council, on a nondelegable basis, may, by a vote of not fewer than two-thirds of the voting members of the Council then serving (including an affirmative vote by the Chairperson of the Council), make a Final Determination that the company will be subject to supervision by the Federal Reserve Board and prudential standards. If the Council makes a Final Determination, it will provide the company with a written notice of the Council's Final Determination, including an explanation of the basis for the Council's decision.
19
The Council will also provide the company's primary financial regulatory agency or home country supervisor with the nonpublic written explanation of the basis of the Council's Final Determination (subject to appropriate protections for confidential information). The Council expects that its explanation of the basis for any Final Determination will highlight the key risks that led to the determination and include guidance regarding the factors that were important in the Council's determination. When practicable and consistent with the purposes of the determination process, the Council will provide a nonbank financial company with notice of a Final Determination at least one business day before publicly announcing the determination pursuant to § 1310.21(d)(3), § 1310.21(e)(3), or § 1310.22(d)(3) of the Council's rule.
20
In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act, a nonbank financial company that is subject to a Final Determination may bring an action in U.S. district court for an order requiring that the determination be rescinded.
21
19
Dodd-Frank Act section 113(e)(3), 12 U.S.C. 5323(e)(3); see also 12 CFR 1310.21(d)(2) and (e)(2).
20
See 12 CFR 1310.21(d)(3) and (e)(3) and 1310.22(d)(3).
21
See Dodd-Frank Act section 113(h), 12 U.S.C. 5323(h).
The Council does not intend to publicly announce the name of any nonbank financial company that is under evaluation prior to a Final Determination with respect to such company. However, if a company that is under review in Stage 1 or Stage 2 publicly announces the status of its review by the Council, the Council intends, upon the request of a third party, to confirm the status of the company's review. In addition, the Council will publicly release the explanation of the Council's basis for any Final Determination or rescission of a determination, following such an action by the Council. The Council is subject to statutory and regulatory requirements to maintain the confidentiality of certain information submitted to it by a nonbank financial company or its regulators.
22
In light of these confidentiality obligations, such confidential information will be redacted from the materials that the Council makes publicly available, although the Council does not expect to restrict a company's ability to disclose such information.
22
See Dodd-Frank Act section 112(d)(5), 12 U.S.C. 5322(d)(5); see also 12 CFR 1310.20(e).

# III. Annual Reevaluations of Nonbank Financial Company Determinations
After the Council makes a Final Determination regarding a nonbank financial company, the Council intends to encourage the company or its regulators to take steps to mitigate the potential risks identified in the Council's written explanation of the basis for its Final Determination. Except in cases where new material risks arise over time, if the potential risks identified in writing by the Council at the time of the Final Determination and in subsequent reevaluations have been adequately addressed, generally the Council would expect to rescind its determination regarding the company.
For any nonbank financial company that is subject to a Final Determination, the Council is required to reevaluate the determination at least annually, and to rescind the determination if the Council determines that the company no longer meets the statutory standards for a determination.
23
The Council may also consider a request from a company for a reevaluation before the next
required annual reevaluation, in the case of an extraordinary change that materially affects the Council's analysis.
23
Dodd-Frank Act section 113(d), 12 U.S.C. 5323(d).
The Council will apply the same standards of review in its annual reevaluations as the standards for an initial determination regarding a nonbank financial company: either material financial distress at the company, or the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or the mix of the company's activities, could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability. If the Council determines that the company does not meet either of those standards, the Council will rescind its determination.
The Council's annual reevaluations will generally assess whether any material changes since the previous reevaluation and since the Final Determination justify a rescission of the determination. The Council expects that its reevaluation process will focus on whether any material changes that have taken effect—including changes at the company, changes in its markets or its regulation, changes in the impact of relevant factors, or otherwise—result in the company no longer meeting the standards for a determination. In light of the frequent reevaluations, the Council's analyses will generally focus on material changes since the Council's previous review, but the ultimate question the Council will seek to assess is whether changes in the aggregate since the Council's Final Determination regarding the company have caused the company to cease meeting either of the statutory standards for a determination.
During the Council's annual reevaluation of a determination regarding a nonbank financial company, the Council will provide the company with an opportunity to meet with representatives of the Council to discuss the scope and process for the review and to present information regarding any change that may be relevant to the threat the company could pose to financial stability. In addition, during an annual reevaluation, the company may submit any written information to the Council the company deems relevant to the Council's analysis. During annual reevaluations, a company is encouraged to submit information regarding any changes related to the company's risk profile that mitigate the potential risks previously identified by the Council. Such changes could include updates regarding company restructurings, regulatory developments, market changes, or other factors. If the company or its regulators have taken steps to address the potential risks previously identified by the Council, the Council will assess whether the risks have been adequately mitigated to merit a rescission of the determination regarding the company. If the company explains in detail and in a timely manner potential changes it could make to its business to address the potential risks previously identified by the Council, representatives of the Council will endeavor to provide their feedback on the extent to which those changes may address the potential risks.
If a company contests the Council's determination during the Council's annual reevaluation, the Council will vote on whether to rescind the determination and provide the company, its primary financial regulatory agency or home country supervisor, and the primary financial regulatory agency of its significant subsidiaries with a notice explaining the primary basis for any decision not to rescind the determination. If the Council does not rescind the determination, the written notice provided to the company will address the most material factors raised by the company in its submissions to the Council contesting the determination during the annual reevaluation. The written notice from the Council will also explain why the Council did not find that the company no longer met the standard for a determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act. In general, due to the sensitive, company-specific nature of its analyses in annual reevaluations, the Council generally would not publicly release the written findings that it provides to the company, although the Council does not expect to restrict a company's ability to disclose such information.
Finally, the Council will provide each nonbank financial company subject to a Council determination an opportunity for an oral hearing before the Council once every five years at which the company can contest the determination.
[88 FR 80127, Nov. 17, 2023]
Pt. 1320

# PART 1320—DESIGNATION OF FINANCIAL MARKET UTILITIES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1320.1
Authority and purpose.
1320.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Consultations, Determinations and Hearings
1320.10
Factors for consideration in designations.
1320.11
Consultation with financial market utility.
1320.12
Advance notice of proposed determination
1320.13
Council determination regarding systemic importance.
1320.14
Emergency exception.
1320.15
Notification of final determination regarding systemic importance.
1320.16
Extension of time periods.

# Subpart C—Information Collection
1320.20
Council information collection and coordination.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5321; 12 U.S.C. 5322; 12 U.S.C. 5463; 12 U.S.C. 5468; 12 U.S.C. 5469

# Source:
76 FR 44773, July 27, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1320.1
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the Financial Stability Oversight Council under sections 111, 112, 804, 809, and 810 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) (12 U.S.C. 5321, 5322, 5463, 5468, and 5469).
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to set forth the standards and procedures governing the Council's designation of a financial market utility that the Council determines is, or is likely to become, systemically important.
§ 1320.2
Definitions.
The terms used in this part have the following meanings:
Appropriate Federal banking agency.
The term “
appropriate Federal banking agency”
has the same meaning as in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)), as amended.
Board of Governors.
The term “
Board of Governors”
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Council.
The term “
Council”
means the Financial Stability Oversight Council.
Designated clearing entity.
The term “
designated clearing entity”
means a designated financial market utility that is a derivatives clearing organization registered under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1) or a clearing agency registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q-1).
Designated financial market utility.
The term “
designated financial market utility”
means a financial market utility that the Council has designated as systemically important under § 1320.13.
Financial institution.
The term “
financial institution”
—
(1) Means—
(i) A depository institution as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813);
(ii) A branch or agency of a foreign bank, as defined in section 1(b) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101);
(iii) An organization operating under section 25 or 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 601-604a and 611 through 631);
(iv) A credit union, as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752);
(v) A broker or dealer, as defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c);
(vi) An investment company, as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3);
(vii) An insurance company, as defined in section 2 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2);
(viii) An investment adviser, as defined in section 202 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2);
(ix) A futures commission merchant, commodity trading advisor, or commodity pool operator, as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a); and
(x) Any company engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity, as described in section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)).
(2) Does not include designated contract markets, registered futures associations, swap data repositories, and swap execution facilities registered under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), or national securities exchanges, national securities associations, alternative trading systems, securities information processors solely with respect to the activities of the entity as a securities information processor, security-based swap data repositories, and swap execution facilities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), or designated clearing entities, provided that the exclusions in this paragraph apply only with respect to the activities that require the entity to be so registered.
Financial market utility.
The term “financial market utility”—
(1) Means any person that manages or operates a multilateral system for the purpose of transferring, clearing, or settling payments, securities, or other financial transactions among financial institutions or between financial institutions and the person; and
(2) Does not include—
(i) Designated contract markets, registered futures associations, swap data repositories, and swap execution facilities registered under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), or national securities exchanges, national securities associations, alternative trading systems, security-based swap data repositories, and swap data execution facilities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), solely by reason of their providing facilities for comparison of data respecting the terms of settlement of securities or futures transactions effected on such exchange or by means of any electronic system operated or controlled by such entities, provided that the exclusions in this clause apply only with respect to the activities that require the entity to be so registered; and
(ii) Any broker, dealer, transfer agent, or investment company, or any futures commission merchant, introducing broker, commodity trading advisor, or commodity pool operator, solely by reason of functions performed by such institution as part of brokerage, dealing, transfer agency, or investment company activities, or solely by reason of acting on behalf of a financial market utility or a participant therein in connection with the furnishing by the financial market utility of services to its participants or the use of services of the financial market utility by its participants, provided that services performed by such institution do not constitute critical risk management or processing functions of the financial market utility.
Hearing date.
The term “hearing date” means the later of—
(1) The date on which the Council receives all of the written materials timely submitted by the financial market utility for a hearing that is conducted without oral testimony; or
(2) The final date on which the Council convenes for the financial market utility to present oral testimony.
Payment, clearing, or settlement activity.
(1) The term “payment, clearing, or settlement activity” means an activity carried out by 1 or more financial institutions to facilitate the completion of financial transactions, but shall not include any offer or sale of a security under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
), or any quotation, order entry, negotiation, or other pre-trade activity or execution activity.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (1) of this definition, the term “financial transaction” includes—
(i) Funds transfers;
(ii) Securities contracts;
(iii) Contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery;
(iv) Forward contracts;
(v) Repurchase agreements;
(vi) Swaps;
(vii) Security-based swaps;
(viii) Swap agreements;
(ix) Security-based swap agreements;
(x) Foreign exchange contracts;
(xi) Financial derivatives contracts; and
(xii) Any similar transaction that the Council determines to be a financial transaction for purposes of this part.
(3) When conducted with respect to a financial transaction, payment, clearing, and settlement activities may include—
(i) The calculation and communication of unsettled financial transactions between counterparties;
(ii) The netting of transactions;
(iii) Provision and maintenance of trade, contract, or instrument information;
(iv) The management of risks and activities associated with continuing financial transactions;
(v) Transmittal and storage of payment instructions;
(vi) The movement of funds;
(vii) The final settlement of financial transactions; and
(viii) Other similar functions that the Council may determine.
(4) Payment, clearing, and settlement activities shall not include public reporting of swap transactions under
section 727 or 763(i) of the Dodd-Frank Act.
Supervisory Agency.
(1) The term “Supervisory Agency” means the Federal agency that—
(i) Has primary jurisdiction over a designated financial market utility under Federal banking, securities, or commodity futures laws as follows—
(A) The Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to a designated financial market utility that is a clearing agency registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(B) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, with respect to a designated financial market utility that is a derivatives clearing organization registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
(C) The appropriate Federal banking agency, with respect to a designated financial market utility that is an institution described in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act;
(D) The Board of Governors, with respect to a designated financial market utility that is otherwise not subject to the jurisdiction of any agency listed in paragraphs (1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this definition; or
(ii) Would have primary jurisdiction over a financial market utility if the financial market utility were a designated financial market utility under paragraph (1) of this definition.
(2) If a financial market utility is subject to the jurisdictional supervision of more than one agency listed in paragraph (1) of this definition, then such agencies should agree on one agency to act as the Supervisory Agency, and if such agencies cannot agree on which agency has primary jurisdiction, the Council shall decide which is the Supervisory Agency for purposes of this part.
Systemically important and systemic importance.
The terms “systemically important” and “systemic importance” mean a situation where the failure of or a disruption to the functioning of a financial market utility could create, or increase, the risk of significant liquidity or credit problems spreading among financial institutions or markets and thereby threaten the stability of the financial system of the United States.

# Subpart B—Consultations, Determinations and Hearings
§ 1320.10
Factors for consideration in designations.
In making any proposed or final determination with respect to whether a financial market utility is, or is likely to become, systemically important under this part, the Council shall take into consideration:
(a) The aggregate monetary value of transactions processed by the financial market utility, including without limitation—
(1) The number of transactions processed, cleared or settled;
(2) The value of transactions processed, cleared or settled; and
(3) The value of other financial flows.
(b) The aggregate exposure of the financial market utility to its counterparties, including without limitation—
(1) Credit exposures, which includes but is not limited to potential future exposures; and
(2) Liquidity exposures.
(c) The relationship, interdependencies, or other interactions of the financial market utility with other financial market utilities or payment, clearing, or settlement activities, including without limitation interactions with different types of participants in those utilities or activities.
(d) The effect that the failure of or a disruption to the financial market utility would have on critical markets, financial institutions, or the broader financial system, including without limitation—
(1) Role of the financial market utility in the market served;
(2) Availability of substitutes;
(3) Concentration of participants;
(4) Concentration by product type;
(5) Degree of tiering; and
(6) Potential impact or spillover in the event of a failure or disruption.
(e) Any other factors that the Council deems appropriate.
§ 1320.11
Consultation with financial market utility.
Before providing a financial market utility notice of a proposed determination under § 1320.12, the Council shall provide the financial market utility with—
(a) Written notice that the Council is considering whether to make a proposed determination with respect to the financial market utility under § 1320.13; and
(b) An opportunity to submit written materials to the Council, within such time as the Council determines to be appropriate, concerning—
(1) Whether the financial market utility is systemically important taking into consideration the factors set out in § 1320.10; and
(2) Proposed changes by the financial market utility that could—
(i) Reduce or increase the inherent systemic risk the financial market utility poses and the need for designation under § 1320.13; or
(ii) Reduce or increase the appropriateness of rescission under § 1320.13.
(3) The Council shall consider any written materials timely submitted by the financial market utility under this section before making a proposed determination under section 1320.13.
§ 1320.12
Advance notice of proposed determination.
(a)
Notice of proposed determination and opportunity for hearing.
Before making any final determination on designation or rescission under § 1320.13, the Council shall propose a determination and provide the financial market utility with advance notice of the proposed determination, and proposed findings of fact supporting that determination. A proposed determination shall be made by a vote of the Council in the manner described in § 1320.13(c).
(b)
Request for hearing.
Within 30 calendar days from the date of any provision of notice of the proposed determination of the Council, the financial market utility may request, in writing, an opportunity for a written or oral hearing before the Council to demonstrate that the proposed designation or rescission of designation is not supported by substantial evidence.
(c)
Written submissions.
Upon receipt of a timely request, the Council shall fix a time, not more than 30 calendar days after receipt of the request, unless extended by the Council at the request of the financial market utility, and place at which the financial market utility may appear, personally or through counsel, to submit written materials, or, at the sole discretion of the Council, oral testimony and oral argument.
§ 1320.13
Council determination regarding systemic importance.
(a)
Designation determination.
The Council shall designate a financial market utility if the Council determines that the financial market utility is, or is likely to become, systemically important.
(b)
Rescission determination.
The Council shall rescind a designation of systemic importance for a designated financial market utility if the Council determines that the financial market utility no longer meets the standards for systemic importance.
(c)
Vote required.
Any determination under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section and any proposed determination under § 1320.12 shall—
(1) Be made by the Council and must not be delegated by the Council; and
(2) Require the vote of not fewer than two-thirds of the members of the Council then serving, including the affirmative vote of the Chairperson of the Council.
(d)
Consultations.
Before making any determination under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section or any proposed determination under § 1320.12, the Council shall consult with the relevant Supervisory Agency and the Board of Governors.
§ 1320.14
Emergency exception.
(a)
Emergency exception.
Notwithstanding §§ 1320.11 and 1320.12, the Council may waive or modify any or all of the notice, hearing, and other requirements of §§ 1320.11 and 1320.12 with respect to a financial market utility if—
(1) The Council determines that the waiver or modification is necessary to prevent or mitigate an immediate threat to the financial system posed by the financial market utility; and
(2) The Council provides notice of the waiver or modification, and an explanation of the basis for the waiver or modification, to the financial market utility concerned, as soon as practicable, but not later than 24 hours after the waiver or modification.
(b)
Vote required.
Any determination by the Council under paragraph (a) to waive or modify any of the requirements of §§ 1320.11 and 1320.12 shall—
(1) Be made by the Council; and
(2) Require the affirmative vote of not fewer than two-thirds of members then serving, including the affirmative vote of the Chairperson of Council.
(c)
Request for hearing.
Within 10 calendar days from the date of any provision of notice of waiver or modification of the Council, the financial market utility may request, in writing, an opportunity for a written or oral hearing before the Council to demonstrate that the basis for the waiver or modification is not supported by substantial evidence.
(d)
Written submissions.
Upon receipt of a timely request, the Council shall fix a time, not more than 30 calendar days after receipt of the request, and place at which the financial market utility may appear, personally or through counsel, to submit written materials, or, at the sole discretion of the Counsel, oral testimony and oral argument.
(e)
Notification of hearing determination.
If a financial market utility makes a timely request for a hearing under paragraph (c) of this section, the Council shall, not later than 30 calendar days after the hearing date, notify the financial market utility of the determination of the Council, which shall include a statement of the basis for the determination of the Council.
§ 1320.15
Notification of final determination regarding systemic importance.
(a)
Notification of final determination after a hearing.
Within 60 calendar days of the hearing date, the Council shall provide to the financial market utility written notification of the final determination of the Council under § 1320.13, which shall include findings of fact upon which the determination of the Council is based.
(b)
Notification of final determination if no hearing.
If the Council does not receive a timely request for a hearing under § 1320.12, the Council shall provide the financial market utility written notification of the final determination of the Council under § 1320.13 not later than 30 calendar days after the expiration of the date by which a financial market utility could have requested a hearing.
§ 1320.16
Extension of time periods.
The Council may extend any time period established in § 1320.12, § 1320.14, or § 1320.15 as the Council determines to be necessary or appropriate.

# Subpart C—Information Collection
§ 1320.20
Council information collection and coordination.
(a)
Information collection to assess systemic importance.
The Council may require any financial market utility to submit such information to the Council as the Council may require for the sole purpose of assessing whether the financial market utility is systemically important.
(b)
Prerequisites to information collection.
Before requiring any financial market utility to submit information to the Council under paragraph (a) of this section, the Council shall—
(1) Determine that it has reasonable cause to believe that the financial market utility is, or is likely to become, systemically important, considering the standards set out in § 1320.10; or
(2) Determine that it has reasonable cause to believe that the designated financial market utility is no longer, or is no longer likely to become, systemically important, considering the standards set out in § 1320.10; and
(3) Coordinate with the Supervisory Agency for the financial market utility to determine if the information is available from, or may be obtained by, the Supervisory Agency in the form, format, or detail required by the Council.
(c)
Timing of response from the appropriate Supervisory Agency.
If the information, reports, records, or data requested by the Council under paragraph (b)(3) of this section are not provided in full by the Supervisory Agency in less than 15 calendar days after the date on which the material is requested, the Council may request the information directly from the financial market utility with notice to the Supervisory Agency.
(d)
Notice to financial market utility of information collection requirement.
In requiring a financial market utility to submit information to the Council, the Council shall provide to the financial market utility the following—
(1) Written notice that the Council is considering whether to make a proposed determination under § 1320.12; and
(2) A description of the basis for the Council's belief under paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.
PARTS 1321-1399 [RESERVED]
12 CFR Ch. XIV (1-1-25 Edition)
Farm Credit System Insurance Corp.

# CHAPTER XIV—FARM CREDIT SYSTEM INSURANCE CORPORATION
Part
Page
1400
Organization and functions
683
1401
Employee responsibilities and conduct
683
1402
Releasing information
683
1403
Privacy Act regulations
692
1408
Collection of claims owed the United States
695
1410
Premiums
707
1411
Rules of practice and procedure
711
1412
Golden parachute and indemnification payments
711
1413-1499
[Reserved]
Pt. 1400

# PART 1400—ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS

# Subpart A—Organization and Functions
Sec.
1400.1
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation.
1400.2
Board of Directors of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation.
1400.3
Organization of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation.
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 2277a-5; 12 U.S.C. 2277a-7.

# Source:
55 FR 36610, Sept. 6, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Organization and Functions
§ 1400.1
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation.
The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Corporation) was created by sections 5.52 and 5.58 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (Act) to carry out the responsibilities set out in part E of title V of the Act, including insuring the timely payment of principal and interest on notes, bonds, debentures, and other obligations issued under subsection (c) or (d) of section 4.2 of the Farm Credit Act on behalf of one or more Farm Credit System banks.
§ 1400.2
Board of Directors of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation.
The Board of Directors of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation is entrusted with the responsibility to manage the Corporation. The Board of Directors consists of the members of the Farm Credit Administration Board. The Chairman of the Corporation is elected by the members of the Board.
§ 1400.3
Organization of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation.
Officers of the Corporation shall be appointed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. Current information on the organization of the Corporation may be obtained from the Corporation, 1501 Farm Credit Drive, McLean, Virginia 22102-0826.
Subpart B [Reserved]
Pt. 1401

# PART 1401—EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7301; 12 U.S.C. 2277a-7.
§ 1401.1
Cross-references to employee ethical conduct standards and financial disclosure regulations.
Board members, officers, and other employees of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation are subject to the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch at 5 CFR part 2635, the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation regulation at 5 CFR part 4001, which supplements the Executive Branch-wide Standards, and the executive branch-wide financial disclosure regulations at 5 CFR part 2634.
[60 FR 30778, June 12, 1995]
Pt. 1402

# PART 1402—RELEASING INFORMATION
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Availability of Records of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
Sec.
1402.10
Official records of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation.
1402.11
Current index.
1402.12
Identification of records requested.
1402.13
Request for records.
1402.14
Response to requests for records.
1402.15
Business information.

# Subpart C—Fees for Provision of Information
1402.20
Definitions.
1402.21
Categories of requesters—fees.
1402.22
Fees to be charged.
1402.23
Waiver or reduction of fees.
1402.24
Advance payments—notice.
1402.25
Interest.
1402.26
Charges for unsuccessful searches or reviews.
1402.27
Aggregating requests.

# Authority:
Secs. 5.58, 5.59 of Pub. L. 92-181, 85 Stat. 583 (12 U.S.C. 2277a-7, 2277a-8); 5 U.S.C. 552; 52 FR 10012; E.O. 12600, 52 FR 23781, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 235.

# Source:
59 FR 24638, May 12, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Availability of Records of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
§ 1402.10
Official records of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation.
(a) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall, upon any request for records which reasonably describes them and is made in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, make the records available as promptly as practicable to any person, except exempt records, which include the following:
(1) Records specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and are in fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive order;
(2) Records related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, including matters which are for the guidance of agency personnel;
(3) Records which are specifically exempted from disclosure by statute;
(4) Trade secret, commercial, proprietary, or financial information obtained from any person or organization and privileged or confidential;
(5) Inter-agency or intra-agency memorandums or letters which would not be available by law to a private party in litigation with the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation or in litigation in which the United States, as a real party in interest on behalf of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, is a party;
(6) Personnel and similar files, the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(7) Records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes, but only to the extent that the production of such law enforcement records or information:
(i) Could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings;
(ii) Would deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication;
(iii) Could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(iv) Could reasonably be expected to disclose the identity of a confidential source, including a State, local, or foreign agency or authority or any private institution which furnished information on a confidential basis, and, in the case of a record or information compiled by criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, information furnished by a confidential source;
(v) Would disclose techniques and procedures for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions, or would disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions if such disclosure could reasonably be expected to risk circumvention of the law; or
(vi) Could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of any individual; and
(8) Records of or related to examination, operation, reports of condition and performance, or reports of or related to Farm Credit System institutions and that are prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation.
(b) Any reasonably segregable portion of a record shall be provided to any person requesting such record after deletion of the portions which are exempt under this section.
(c) This section does not authorize withholding of information or limit the availability of records to the public, except as specifically stated in this section. This section is not authority to withhold information from Congress.
§ 1402.11
Current index.
The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation will make available for public inspection and copying a current index to provide identifying information as to any matter required by 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2)(C) to be made available or published in the
Federal Register.
Because of the anticipated infrequency of requests for material required to be indexed, it is determined that the publication of the index in the
Federal
Register
is unnecessary and impracticable. However, the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation will provide a copy of such index to a member of the public upon request therefor at a cost not in excess of the direct cost of duplication.
§ 1402.12
Identification of records requested.
A member of the public who requests records from the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall provide a reasonable description of the records sought including, where possible, specific information as to dates, titles, and subject matter, so that such records may be located without undue search or inquiry. If a record is not identified by a reasonable description, the request therefor may be denied.
§ 1402.13
Request for records.
Requests for records shall be in writing and addressed to the attention of the Freedom of Information Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102. A request improperly addressed will be deemed not to have been received for purposes of the 20-day time period set forth in § 1402.14(a) of this part until it is received, or would have been received, by the Freedom of Information Officer, with the exercise of due diligence by Corporation personnel. Records requested in conformance with this subpart and which are not exempt records may be received in person or by mail as specified in the request. Records to be received in person will be available for inspection or copying during business hours on a regular business day in the office of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, 1501 Farm Credit Drive, McLean, Virginia, 22102.
[62 FR 49593, Sept. 23, 1997]
§ 1402.14
Response to requests for records.
(a) Within 20 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays), or any extensions thereof as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, of the receipt of a request by the Freedom of Information Officer, the Freedom of Information Officer shall determine whether to comply with or deny such a request and transmit a written notice thereof to the requester.
(b) Within 90 days of the receipt of a notice denying, in whole or in part, a request for records, the requester may appeal the denial. The appeal shall be in writing addressed to the Chief Financial Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102, and both the letter and envelope shall clearly be marked “FOIA Appeal.” An appeal improperly addressed shall be deemed not to have been received for purposes of the 20-day time period set forth in paragraph (c) of this section until it is received, or would have been received with the exercise of due diligence by Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation personnel. You also have the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Corporation's FOIA Public Liaison, McLean, Virginia 22102, and the Office of Government Information Services, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road—OGIS, College Park, Maryland 20740-6001.
(c) Within 20 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays), or any extension thereof as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, of the receipt of an appeal, the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall act upon the appeal and place a notice of the determination thereof in writing in the mail addressed to the requester. If the determination on the appeal upholds in whole or in part the denial of the request for records, or, if a determination on the appeal has not been mailed at the end of the 20-day period or the last extension thereof, the requester is deemed to have exhausted that person's administrative remedies, giving rise to a right of review in a district court of the United States as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4). When a determination cannot be mailed within the applicable time limit, the appeal will nevertheless be processed. In such case, upon the expiration of the time limit, the requester will be informed of the reason for the delay, of the date on which a determination may be expected to be mailed, and of that person's right to seek judicial review. The requester may be asked to forego judicial review until determination of the appeal.
(d) In “unusual circumstances,” the 20-day time limit prescribed in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, or both, may be extended by the Freedom of Information Officer or, in the case of an appeal, by the General Counsel, provided that the total of all extensions does not exceed 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays). Extensions shall be made by written notice to the requester setting forth the reason for the extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be dispatched. As used in this paragraph,
“unusual circumstances”
means, but only to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper processing of the request:
(1) The need to search for and collect the requested records from facilities or other establishments that are separate from the office processing the request;
(2) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or
(3) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request or among two or more components of the agency having a substantial subject matter interest therein.
(e) A requester may obtain, upon request, expedited processing of a request for records when the requester demonstrates a “compelling need” for the information. The Freedom of Information Officer will notify the requester within 10 calendar days after receipt of such a request whether the Corporation granted expedited processing. If expedited processing was granted, the request will be processed as soon as practicable.
(1) For the purposes of this paragraph, “
compelling need
” means:
(i) That a failure to obtain requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or
(ii) With respect to a request made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information, urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activity.
(2) A requester shall demonstrate a compelling need by a statement certified by the requester to be true and correct to the best of such person's knowledge and belief.
(3) The procedures of this paragraph (e) for expedited processing apply to both requests for information and to administrative appeals.
[59 FR 24638, May 12, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 49593, Sept. 23, 1997; 81 FR 59438, Aug. 30, 2016]
§ 1402.15
Business information.
(a) Business information provided to the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation by a business submitter shall not be disclosed pursuant to a Freedom of Information Act request except in accordance with this section. The requirements of this section shall not apply if:
(1) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation determines that the information should not be disclosed;
(2) The information lawfully has been published or otherwise made available to the public; or
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by law (other than 5 U.S.C. 552).
(b) For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply.
(1)
Business information
means trade secrets or other commercial or financial information.
(2)
Business submitter
means any person or entity which provides business information to the government.
(3)
Requester
means the person or entity making the Freedom of Information Act request.
(c)(1) The Freedom of Information Officer shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide a business submitter with prompt written notice of a request encompassing its business information whenever required under paragraph (d) of this section. Such notice shall either describe the exact nature of the business information requested or provide copies of the records or portions thereof containing the business information.
(2) Whenever the Freedom of Information Officer provides a business submitter with the notice set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Freedom of Information Officer shall notify the requester that the request
includes information that may arguably be exempt from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) and that the person or entity who submitted the information to the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation has been given the opportunity to comment on the proposed disclosure of information.
(d)(1) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall provide a business submitter with notice of a request whenever:
(i) The business submitter has in good faith designated the information as commercially or financially sensitive information; or
(ii) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation has reason to believe that the disclosure of the information may result in commercial or financial injury to the business submitter.
(2) Notice of a request for business information falling within paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section shall be required for a period of not more than 10 years after the date of submission unless the business submitter requests and provides acceptable justification for a specific notice period of greater duration.
(3) Whenever possible, the business submitter's claim of confidentiality should be supported by a statement or certification by an officer or authorized representative of the business submitter that the information in question is in fact a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential.
(e) Through the notice described in paragraph (c) of this section, the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall, to the extent permitted by law, afford a business submitter a reasonable period within which it can provide the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation with a detailed statement of any objection to disclosure. Such statement shall specify all grounds for withholding any of the information under any exemption of the Freedom of Information Act and, in the case of the exemption provided by 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), shall demonstrate why the information is contended to be a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential. Information provided by a business submitter pursuant to this paragraph may itself be subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act.
(f)(1) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall consider carefully a business submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure prior to determining whether to disclose business information. Whenever the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation decides to disclose business information over the objection of a business submitter, the Freedom of Information Officer shall forward to the business submitter a written notice which shall include:
(i) A statement of the reasons for which the business submitter's disclosure objections were not sustained;
(ii) A description of the business information to be disclosed; and
(iii) A specified disclosure date.
(2) The notice of intent to disclose required by this paragraph shall be sent, to the extent permitted by law, within a reasonable number of days prior to the specified date upon which disclosure is intended.
(3) The Freedom of Information Officer shall send a copy of such disclosure notice to the requester at the same time the notice is sent to the business submitter.
(g) Whenever a requester brings suit seeking to compel disclosure of business information covered by paragraph (d) of this section, the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall promptly notify the business submitter of such action.

# Subpart C—Fees for Provision of Information
§ 1402.20
Definitions.
For the purpose of this subpart, the following definitions shall apply:
(a)
Commercial use request
means a request for information that is from or on behalf of an individual or entity seeking information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or on whose behalf the request is being made. To determine whether a request is properly classified as a commercial use request, the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall determine the purpose for which the documents requested will be used. If the
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation has reasonable cause to doubt the purpose specified in the request, for which a requester will use the records sought, or where the purpose is not clear from the request itself, the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall seek additional clarification before assigning the request to a specified category.
(b)
Direct costs
means those expenditures the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation actually incurs in searching for and reproducing documents to respond to a request for information. In the case of a commercial use request, the term also means those expenditures the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation actually incurs in reviewing documents to respond to the request. The direct cost shall include the salary of the employee performing work (the basic rate of pay for the employee plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits) and the cost of operating reproduction equipment. Not included in direct costs are overhead expenses such as costs of space, and heating or lighting the facility in which the records are stored.
(c)
Educational institution
means a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of professional education, and an institution of vocational education that operates a program or programs of scholarly research.
(d)
Noncommercial scientific institution
refers to an institution that is not operated on a commercial, trade, or profit basis and that is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
(e)
Representative of the news media
means any person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. The term
news
means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large, and publishers of periodicals (but only in those instances when the periodicals can qualify as disseminators of “news”) who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public. These examples are not intended to be all-inclusive. As traditional methods of news delivery evolve (e.g., electronic dissemination of newspapers through telecommunication services), such alternative media would be included in this category. “Freelance” journalists may be regarded as working for a news organization if they can demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that organization even though they are not actually employed by the organization. A publication contract would be the clearest proof that a journalist is working for a news organization, but the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation may look to a requester's past publication record to determine whether a journalist is working for a news organization.
(f)
Reproduce
and
reproduction
mean the process of making a copy of a document necessary to respond to a request for information. Such copies take the form of paper copy, microfilm, audio-visual materials, or machine readable documentation (e.g., magnetic tape or disk), among others. The copy provided shall be in a form that is reasonably usable by requesters.
(g)
Review
means the process of examining documents located in response to a request for information to determine whether any portion of any document located is permitted to be withheld. It also includes processing any documents for disclosure (e.g., doing all that is necessary to prepare the documents for release). The term review does not include the time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions. The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall only charge fees for reviewing documents in response to a commercial use request.
(h)
Search
includes all time spent looking for material that is responsive to a request for information, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of material within documents. Searching for material shall be done in the most efficient and least expensive manner so as to minimize the costs of
the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation and the requester. For example, a line-by-line search for responsive material should not be performed when merely reproducing an entire document would be the less expensive and the faster method of complying with a request for information. Searches may be done manually or by computer using existing programming. A “search” for material that is responsive to a request should be distinguished from a “review” of material to determine whether the material is exempt from disclosure.
§ 1402.21
Categories of requesters—fees.
There are four categories of requesters: Commercial use requesters; educational and noncommercial scientific institutions; representatives of the news media; and all other requesters.
(a) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall charge fees for records requested by or on behalf of educational institutions and noncommercial scientific institutions in an amount which equals the cost of reproducing the documents responsive to the request, excluding the costs of reproducing the first 100 pages. For a request to be included in this category, requesters must show that the request being made is authorized by and under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not sought for a commercial use but are sought in furtherance of scholarly research (if the request is from an educational institution) or scientific research (if the request is from a noncommercial scientific institution).
(b) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall charge fees for records requested by representatives of the news media in an amount which equals the cost of reproducing the documents responsive to the request, excluding the costs of reproducing the first 100 pages. For a request to be included in this category, the requester must qualify as a representative of the news media and the request must not be made for a commercial use. A request for records supporting the news dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be a request that is for a commercial use.
(c) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall charge fees for records requested by persons or entities making a commercial use request in an amount that equals the full direct costs for searching for, reviewing for release, and reproducing the records sought. Commercial use requesters are not entitled to 2 hours of free search time nor 100 free pages of reproduction of documents. In accordance with § 1402.26, commercial use requesters may be charged the costs of searching for and reviewing records even if there is ultimately no disclosure of records.
(d) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall charge fees for records requested by persons or entities that are not classified in any of the categories listed in paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section in an amount that equals the full reasonable direct cost of searching for and reproducing records that are responsive to the request, excluding the first 2 hours of search time and the cost of reproducing the first 100 pages of records. In accordance with § 1402.26, requesters in this category may be charged the cost of searching for records even if there is ultimately no disclosure of records, excluding the first 2 hours of search time.
(e) For purposes of the exceptions contained in this section on assessment of fees, the word
pages
refers to paper copies of “8
1/2
× 11” or “11 × 14.” Thus, requesters are not entitled to 100 microfiche or 100 computer disks, for example. A microfiche containing the equivalent of 100 pages or a computer disk containing the equivalent of 100 pages of computer printout meets the terms of the exception.
(f) For purposes of paragraph (d) of this section, the term
search time
has as its basis, manual search. To apply this term to searches made by computer, the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation will determine the hourly cost of operating the central processing unit and the operator's hourly salary plus 16 percent of that rate. When the cost of search (including the operator time and the cost of operating the computer to process a request) equals the equivalent dollar amount of 2 hours of the salary of the person performing the search, i.e., the operator, the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
will begin assessing charges for computer search.
§ 1402.22
Fees to be charged.
(a) Generally, the fees charged for requests for records shall cover the full allowable direct costs of searching for, reproducing, and reviewing documents that are responsive to a request for information.
(b) Manual searches for records will be charged at the salary rate(s) (i.e., basic pay plus 16 percent of that rate) of the employee(s) making the search.
(c) Computer searches for records will be charged at the actual direct cost of providing the service. This will include the cost of operating the central processing unit for that portion of operating time that is directly attributable to searching for records and the operator/programmer salary apportionable to the search. A charge shall also be made for any substantial amounts of special supplies or materials used to contain, present, or make available the output of computers, based upon the prevailing levels of costs to the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation for the type and amount of such supplies of materials that are used. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to entitle any person or entity, as a right, to any services in connection with computerized records, other than services to which such person or entity may be entitled under the provisions of this subpart.
(d) Only requesters who are seeking documents for commercial use may be charged for time spent reviewing records to determine whether they are exempt from mandatory disclosure. Charges may be assessed only for the initial review; i.e., the review undertaken the first time the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation analyzes the applicability of a specific exemption to a particular record or portion of a record. Records or portions of records withheld in full under an exemption that is subsequently determined not to apply may be reviewed again to determine the applicability of other exemptions not previously considered. The costs for such a subsequent review is assessable.
(e) Records will be reproduced at a rate of $.15 per page. For copies prepared by computer, such as tapes or printouts, the requester shall be charged the actual cost, including operator time, of production of the tape or printout. For other methods of reproduction, the actual direct costs of producing the document(s) shall be charged.
(f) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation will recover the full costs of providing services such as those enumerated below when it elects to provide them:
(1) Certifying that records are true copies; or
(2) Sending records by special methods such as express mail.
(g) Remittances shall be in the form either of a personal check or bank draft drawn on a bank in the United States, or a postal money order. Remittances shall be made payable to the order of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation.
(h) We will not assess fees if we fail to comply with any time limit under the FOIA or these regulations, and have not timely notified the requester, in writing, that an unusual circumstance exists. If an unusual circumstance exists, and timely, written notice is given to the requester, we may be excused an additional 10 working days before fees are automatically waived under this paragraph (h).
(i) If we determine that unusual circumstances apply and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to a request, we may charge fees if we provided a timely, written notice to the requester and discussed with the requester via mail, Email, or telephone (or made at least three good faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request.
(j) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, a failure to comply with time limits imposed by these regulations or FOIA shall be excused for the length of time provided by court order.
(k) A receipt for fees paid will be given upon request.
[59 FR 24638, May 12, 1994, as amended at 81 FR 59438, Aug. 30, 2016]
§ 1402.23
Waiver or reduction of fees.
(a) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation may grant a waiver or reduction of fees if the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation determines that the disclosure of the information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the Government, and the disclosure of the information is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(b) The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation will not charge fees to any requester, including commercial use requesters, if the cost of collecting a fee would be equal to or greater than the fee itself. The elements to be considered in determining the “cost of collecting a fee” are the administrative costs of receiving and recording a requester's remittance and processing the fee.
§ 1402.24
Advance payments—notice.
(a) Where it is anticipated that the fees chargeable will amount to more than $25 and the requester has not indicated in advance a willingness to pay fees as high as are anticipated, the requester shall be promptly notified of the amount of the anticipated fee or such portion thereof that can be readily estimated.
(b) If the anticipated fees exceed $250 and if the requester has a history of promptly paying fees charged in connection with information requests, the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation may obtain satisfactory assurances that the requester will fully pay the fees anticipated.
(c) If the anticipated fees exceed $250 and if the requester has no history of paying fees charged in connection with information requests, the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation may require an advance payment of fees in an amount up to the full amount anticipated.
(d) If the requester has previously failed to pay a fee charged within 30 days of the date of a billing for fees charged in connection with information requests, the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation may require the requester to pay the fees owed, plus interest, or demonstrate that the full amount owed has been paid, and require the requester to make an advance payment of the full amount of the fees anticipated before processing a new request or a pending request from that requester.
(e) The notice of the amount of an anticipated fee or a request for an advance deposit shall include an offer to the requester to confer with identified Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation personnel to attempt to reformulate the request in a manner which will meet the needs of the requester at a lower cost.
§ 1402.25
Interest.
The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation may begin charging interest on unpaid fees, starting on the 31st day following the day on which the bill for such fees was sent. Interest will not accrue if payment of the fees has been received by the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, even if said payment has not been processed. Interest will accrue at the rate prescribed in section 3717 of title 31, United States Code, and will accrue from the day on which the bill for such fees was sent.
§ 1402.26
Charges for unsuccessful searches or reviews.
The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation may assess charges for time spent searching for records on behalf of requesters in the categories provided for in § 1402.21 (c) and (d), even if there are no records that are responsive to the request or there is ultimately no disclosure of records. The Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation may assess charges for time spent reviewing records for requesters in the category provided for in § 1402.21(c) even if the records located are determined to be exempt from disclosure.
§ 1402.27
Aggregating requests.
A requester may not file multiple requests at the same time, each seeking portions of a document or documents, solely in order to avoid payment of fees. When the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation reasonably believes that a requester, or a group of requesters acting in concert, is attempting to break a request down into
a series of requests for the purpose of evading the assessment of fees, the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation may aggregate any such requests and charge accordingly. One element to be considered in determining whether a belief would be reasonable is the time period over which the requests have occurred.
Pt. 1403

# PART 1403—PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS
Sec.
1403.1
Purpose and scope.
1403.2
Definitions.
1403.3
Procedures for requests pertaining to individual records in a record system.
1403.4
Times, places, and requirements for identification of individuals making requests.
1403.5
Disclosure of requested information to individuals.
1403.6
Special procedures for medical records.
1403.7
Request for amendment to record.
1403.8
Agency review of request for amendment of record.
1403.9
Appeal of an initial adverse determination of a request to amend a record.
1403.10
Fees for providing copies of records.
1403.11
Criminal penalties.
1403.12
Exemptions.

# Authority:
Secs. 5.58, 5.59 of the Farm Credit Act (12 U.S.C. 2277a-7, 2277a-8); 5 U.S.C. app. 3, 5 U.S.C. 552a.

# Source:
59 FR 53084, Oct. 21, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1403.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part is published by the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-579, 5 U.S.C. 552a) which requires each Federal agency to promulgate rules to establish procedures for notification and disclosure to an individual of agency records pertaining to that person, and for review of such records.
(b) The records covered by this part include:
(1) Personnel and employment records maintained by the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation not covered by §§ 293.101 through 293.108 of the regulations of the Office of Personnel Management (5 CFR 293.101 through 293.108); and
(2) Other records contained in record systems maintained by the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation.
(c) This part does not apply to any records maintained by the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation in its capacity as a receiver or conservator.
§ 1403.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
(a)
Agency
means the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation. It does not include the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation when it is acting as a receiver or a conservator;
(b)
Individual
means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence;
(c)
Maintain
includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate;
(d)
Record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by an agency including, but not limited to, that person's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history, and that contains that person's name, or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or photograph;
(e)
Routine use
means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose that is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected;
(f)
Statistical record
means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by 13 U.S.C. 8;
(g)
System of records
means a group of any records under the control of any agency from which information is retrieved by the name of an individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.
§ 1403.3
Procedures for requests pertaining to individual records in a record system.
(a) Any present or former employee of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation seeking access to that person's official civil service records
maintained by the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall submit a request in such manner as is prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management.
(b) Individuals shall submit their requests in writing to the Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102-0826, when seeking to obtain the following information from the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation:
(1) Notification of whether the agency maintains a record pertaining to that person in a system of records;
(2) Notification of whether the agency has disclosed a record for which an accounting of disclosure is required to be maintained and made available to that person;
(3) A copy of a record pertaining to that person or the accounting of its disclosure; or
(4) The review of a record pertaining to that person or the accounting of its disclosure.
The request shall state the full name and address of the individual, and identify the system or systems of records believed to contain the information or record sought.
§ 1403.4
Times, places, and requirements for identification of individuals making requests.
The individual making written requests for information or records ordinarily will not be required to verify that person's identity. The signature upon such requests shall be deemed to be a certification by the requester that he or she is the individual to whom the record pertains, or the parent of a minor, or the duly appointed legal guardian of the individual to whom the record pertains. The Privacy Act Officer, however, may require such additional verification of identity in any instance in which the Privacy Act Officer deems it advisable.
§ 1403.5
Disclosure of requested information to individuals.
(a) The Privacy Act Officer shall, within a reasonable period of time after the date of receipt of a request for information of records:
(1) Determine whether or not such request shall be granted;
(2) Notify the requester of the determination, and, if the request is denied, of the reasons therefor; and
(3) Notify the requester that fees for reproducing copies of records may be charged as provided in § 1403.10.
(b) If access to a record is denied because the information therein has been compiled by the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation in reasonable anticipation of a civil or criminal action proceeding, the Privacy Act Officer shall notify the requester of that person's right to judicial appeal under 5 U.S.C. 552a(g).
(c)(1) If access to a record is granted, the requester shall notify the Privacy Act Officer whether the requested record is to be copied and mailed to the requester or whether the record is to be made available for personal inspection.
(2) A requester who is an individual may be accompanied by an individual selected by the requester when the record is disclosed, in which case the requester may be required to furnish a written statement authorizing the discussion of the record in the presence of the accompanying person.
(d) If the record is to be made available for personal inspection, the requester shall arrange with the Privacy Act Officer a mutually agreeable time in the offices of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation for inspection of the record.
§ 1403.6
Special procedures for medical records.
Medical records in the custody of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation which are not subject to Office of Personnel Management regulations shall be disclosed either to the individual to whom they pertain or that person's authorized or legal representative or to a licensed physician named by the individual.
§ 1403.7
Request for amendment to record.
(a) If, after disclosure of the requested information, an individual believes that the record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete, that person may request in writing that the record be amended. Such a request shall be submitted to the Privacy Act Officer and shall identify the system of
records and the record or information therein, a brief description of the material requested to be changed, the requested change or changes, and the reason for such change or changes.
(b) The Privacy Act Officer shall acknowledge receipt of the request within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) and, if a determination has not been made, advise the individual when that person may expect to be advised of action taken on the request. The acknowledgment may contain a request for additional information needed to make a determination.
§ 1403.8
Agency review of request for amendment of record.
Upon receipt of a request for amendment of a record, the Privacy Act Officer shall:
(a) Correct any portion of a record which the individual making the request believes is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete and thereafter inform the individual in writing of such correction, or
(b) Inform the individual in writing of the refusal to amend the record and of the reasons therefor, and advise that the individual may appeal such determination as provided in § 1403.9.
§ 1403.9
Appeal of an initial adverse determination of a request to amend a record.
(a) Not more than 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) after receipt by an individual of an adverse determination on the individual's request to amend a record or otherwise, the individual may appeal to the Chief Operating Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102-0826.
(b) The appeal shall be by letter, mailed or delivered to the Chief Operating Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102-0826. The letter shall identify the records involved in the same manner they were identified to the Privacy Act Officer, shall specify the dates of the request and adverse determination, and shall indicate the expressed basis for that determination. Also, the letter shall state briefly and succinctly the reasons why the adverse determination should be reversed.
(c) The review shall be completed and a final determination made by the Chief Operating Officer not later than 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) from receipt of the request for such review, unless the Chief Operating Officer extends such 30-day period for good cause. If the 30-day period is extended, the individual shall be notified of the reasons therefor.
(d) If the Chief Operating Officer refuses to amend the record in accordance with the request, the individual shall be notified of the right to file a concise statement setting forth that person's disagreement with the final determination and that person's right under 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1)(A) to a judicial review of the final determination.
(e) If the refusal to amend a record as requested is confirmed, there shall be included in the disputed portion of the record a copy of the concise statement filed by the individual together with a concise statement of the reasons for not amending the record as requested. Such statements will be included when disclosure of the disputed record is made to persons and agencies as authorized under 5 U.S.C. 552a.
§ 1403.10
Fees for providing copies of records.
Fees for providing copies of records shall be charged in accordance with §§ 1402.22 and 1402.24 of this chapter.
§ 1403.11
Criminal penalties.
Section 552a(i)(3) of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(i)(3)) makes it a misdemeanor, subject to a maximum fine of $5,000, to knowingly and willfully request or obtain any record concerning any individual from an agency under false pretenses. Sections 552a(i) (1) and (2) of the Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(i) (1), (2)) provide penalties for violation by agency employees of the Act or regulations established thereunder.
§ 1403.12
Exemptions.
Specific.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), the investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes in the following system of records is exempt from subsections (c)(3), (d),
(e)(1), (e)(4) (G), (H), and (I), and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a and from the provisions of this part:
Personnel Security Files—FCSIC.
Pt. 1408

# PART 1408—COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES

# Subpart A—Administrative Collection of Claims
Sec.
1408.1
Authority.
1408.2
Applicability.
1408.3
Definitions.
1408.4
Delegation of authority.
1408.5
Responsibility for collection.
1408.6
Demand for payment.
1408.7
Right to inspect and copy records.
1408.8
Right to offer to repay claim.
1408.9
Right to agency review.
1408.10
Review procedures.
1408.11
Special review.
1408.12
Charges for interest, administrative costs, and penalties.
1408.13
Contracting for collection services.
1408.14
Reporting of credit information.
1408.15
Credit report.

# Subpart B—Administrative Offset
1408.20
Applicability.
1408.21
Collection by offset.
1408.22
Notice requirements before offset.
1408.23
Right to review of claim.
1408.24
Waiver of procedural requirements.
1408.25
Coordinating offset with other Federal agencies.
1408.26
Stay of offset.
1408.27
Offset against amounts payable from Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.

# Subpart C—Offset Against Salary
1408.35
Purpose.
1408.36
Applicability of regulations.
1408.37
Definitions.
1408.38
Waiver requests and claims to the General Accounting Office.
1408.39
Procedures for salary offset.
1408.40
Refunds.
1408.41
Requesting current paying agency to offset salary.
1408.42
Responsibility of the Corporation as the paying agency.
1408.43
Nonwaiver of rights by payments.

# Authority:
Sec. 5.58 of the Farm Credit Act (12 U.S.C. 2277a-7); 31 U.S.C. 3701-3719; 5 U.S.C. 5514; 4 CFR parts 101-105; 5 CFR part 550.

# Source:
59 FR 24899, May 13, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Administrative Collection of Claims
§ 1408.1
Authority.
The regulations of this part are issued under the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966, as amended by the Debt Collection Act of 1982, 31 U.S.C. 3701-3719 and 5 U.S.C. 5514, and in conformity with the joint regulations issued under that Act by the General Accounting Office and the Department of Justice (joint regulations) prescribing standards for administrative collection, compromise, suspension, and termination of agency collection actions, and referral to the General Accounting Office and to the Department of Justice for litigation of civil claims for money or property owed to the United States (4 CFR parts 101-105).
§ 1408.2
Applicability.
This part applies to all claims of indebtedness due and owing to the United States and collectible under procedures authorized by the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966, as amended by the Debt Collection Act of 1982. The joint regulations and this part do not apply to conduct in violation of antitrust laws, tax claims, claims between Federal agencies, or to any claim which appears to involve fraud, presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any other party having an interest in the claim, unless the Justice Department authorizes the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, pursuant to 4 CFR 101.3, to handle the claim in accordance with the provisions of 4 CFR parts 101 through 105. Additionally, this part does not apply to Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation's premiums regulations under part 1410 of this chapter.
§ 1408.3
Definitions.
In this part (except where the term is defined elsewhere in this part), the following definitions shall apply:
(a)
Administrative offset
or
offset,
as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1), means withholding money payable by the United States Government to, or held by the Government for, a person to satisfy a debt the person owes the Government.
(b)
Agency
means a department, agency, or instrumentality in the executive or legislative branch of the Government.
(c)
Claim
or
debt
means money or property owed by a person or entity to an agency of the Federal Government. A “claim” or “debt” includes amounts due the Government from loans insured by or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayment, penalties, damages, interest, and fines.
(d)
Claim certification
means a creditor agency's written request to a paying agency to effect an administrative offset.
(e)
Corporation
means the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation.
(f)
Creditor agency
means an agency to which a claim or debt is owed.
(g)
Debtor
means the person or entity owing money to the Federal Government.
(h)
Hearing official
means an individual who is responsible for reviewing a claim under § 1408.10.
(i)
Paying agency
means an agency of the Federal Government owing money to a debtor against which an administrative or salary offset can be effected.
(j)
Salary offset
means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deductions at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of a debtor.
§ 1408.4
Delegation of authority.
The Corporation official(s) designated by the Chairman of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation are authorized to perform all duties which the Chairman is authorized to perform under these regulations, the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966, as amended, and the joint regulations issued under that Act.
§ 1408.5
Responsibility for collection.
(a) The collection of claims shall be aggressively pursued in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966, as amended, the joint regulations issued under that Act, and these regulations. Debts owed to the United States, together with charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs, should be collected in one lump sum unless otherwise provided by law. If a debtor requests installment payments, the debtor, as requested by the Corporation, shall provide sufficient information to demonstrate that the debtor is unable to pay the debt in one lump sum. When appropriate, the Corporation shall arrange an installment payment schedule. Claims which cannot be collected directly or by administrative offset shall be either written off as administratively uncollectible or referred to the General Counsel for further consideration.
(b) The Chairman, or designee of the Chairman, may compromise claims for money or property arising out of the activities of the Corporation, where the claim (exclusive of charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs) does not exceed $100,000. When the claim exceeds $100,000 (exclusive of charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs), the authority to accept a compromise rests solely with the Department of Justice. The standards governing the compromise of claims are set forth in 4 CFR part 103.
(c) The Chairman, or designee of the Chairman, may suspend or terminate the collection of claims which do not exceed $100,000 (exclusive of charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs) after deducting the amount of any partial payments or collections. If, after deducting the amount of any partial payments or collections, a claim exceeds $100,000 (exclusive of charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs), the authority to suspend or terminate rests solely with the Department of Justice. The standards governing the suspension or termination of claim collections are set forth in 4 CFR part 104.
(d) The Corporation shall refer claims to the Department of Justice for litigation or to the General Accounting Office (GAO) for claims arising from audit exceptions taken by the GAO to payments made by the Corporation in accordance with 4 CFR part 105.
§ 1408.6
Demand for payment.
(a) A total of three progressively stronger written demands at not more than 30-day intervals should normally be made upon a debtor, unless a response or other information indicates that additional written demands would either be unnecessary or futile. When necessary to protect the Government's interest, written demands may be preceded by other appropriate actions under Federal law, including immediate referral for litigation and/or administrative offset.
(b) The initial demand for payment shall be in writing and shall inform the debtor of the following:
(1) The amount of the debt, the date it was incurred, and the facts upon which the determination of indebtedness was made;
(2) The payment due date, which shall be 30 calendar days from the date of mailing or hand delivery of the initial demand for payment;
(3) The right of the debtor to inspect and copy the records of the agency related to the claim or to receive copies if personal inspection is impractical. The debtor shall be informed that the debtor may be assessed for the cost of copying the documents in accordance with § 1408.7;
(4) The right of the debtor to obtain a review of the Corporation's determination of indebtedness;
(5) The right of the debtor to offer to enter into a written agreement with the agency to repay the amount of the claim. The debtor shall be informed that the acceptance of such an agreement is discretionary with the agency;
(6) That charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs will be assessed against the debtor, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717, if payment is not received by the payment due date;
(7) That if the debtor has not entered into an agreement with the Corporation to pay the debt, has not requested the Corporation to review the debt, or has not paid the debt by the payment due date, the Corporation intends to collect the debt by all legally available means, which may include initiating legal action against the debtor, referring the debt to a collection agency for collection, collecting the debt by offset, or asking other Federal agencies for assistance in collecting the debt by offset;
(8) The name and address of the Corporation official to whom the debtor shall send all correspondence relating to the debt; and
(9) Other information, as may be appropriate.
(c) If, prior to, during, or after completion of the demand cycle, the Corporation determines to collect the debt by either administrative or salary offset, the Corporation shall follow, as applicable, the requirements for a Notice of Intent to Collect by Administrative Offset or a Notice of Intent to Collect by Salary Offset set forth in § 1408.22.
(d) If no response to the initial demand for payment is received by the payment due date, the Corporation shall take further action under this part, under the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966, as amended, under the joint regulations (4 CFR parts 101-105), or under any other applicable State or Federal law. These actions may include reports to credit bureaus, referrals to collection agencies, termination of contracts, debarment, and salary or administrative offset.
§ 1408.7
Right to inspect and copy records.
The debtor may inspect and copy the Corporation records related to the claim. The debtor shall give the Corporation reasonable advanced notice that he/she intends to inspect and copy the records involved. The debtor shall pay copying costs unless they are waived by the Corporation. Copying costs shall be assessed pursuant to § 1402.22 of this chapter.
§ 1408.8
Right to offer to repay claim.
(a) The debtor may offer to enter into a written agreement with the Corporation to repay the amount of the claim. The acceptance of such an offer and the decision to enter into such a written agreement is at the discretion of the Corporation.
(b) If the debtor requests a repayment arrangement because payment of the amount due would create a financial hardship, the Corporation shall analyze the debtor's financial condition. The Corporation may enter into a
written agreement with the debtor permitting the debtor to repay the debt in installments if the Corporation determines, in its sole discretion, that payment of the amount due would create an undue financial hardship for the debtor. The written agreement shall set forth the amount and frequency of installment payments and shall, in accordance with § 1408.12, provide for the imposition of charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs unless waived by the Corporation.
(c) The written agreement may require the debtor to execute a confess-judgment note when the total amount of the deferred installments will exceed $750. The Corporation shall provide the debtor with a written explanation of the consequences of signing a confess-judgment note. The debtor shall sign a statement acknowledging receipt of the written explanation. The statement shall recite that the written explanation was read and understood before execution of the note and that the debtor signed the note knowingly and voluntarily. Documentation of these procedures will be maintained in the Corporation's file on the debtor.
§ 1408.9
Right to agency review.
(a) If the debtor disputes the claim, the debtor may request a review of the Corporation's determination of the existence of the debt or of the amount of the debt. If only part of the claim is disputed, the undisputed portion should be paid by the payment due date.
(b) To obtain a review, the debtor shall submit a written request for review to the Corporation official named in the initial demand letter, within 15 calendar days after receipt of the letter. The debtor's request for review shall state the basis on which the claim is disputed.
(c) The Corporation shall promptly notify the debtor, in writing, that the Corporation has received the request for review. The Corporation shall conduct its review of the claim in accordance with § 1408.10.
(d) Upon completion of its review of the claim, the Corporation shall notify the debtor whether the Corporation's determination of the existence or amount of the debt has been sustained, amended, or canceled. The notification shall include a copy of the written decision issued by the hearing official pursuant to § 1408.10(e). If the Corporation's determination is sustained, this notification shall contain a provision which states that the Corporation intends to collect the debt by all legally available means, which may include initiating legal action against the debtor, referring the debt to a collection agency for collection, collecting the debt by offset, or asking other Federal agencies for assistance in collecting the debt by offset.
§ 1408.10
Review procedures.
(a) Unless an oral hearing is required by § 1408.23(d), the Corporation's review shall be a review of the written record of the claim.
(b) If an oral hearing is required under § 1408.23(d) the Corporation shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for such a hearing. The oral hearing, however, shall not be an adversarial adjudication and need not take the form of a formal evidentiary hearing. All significant matters discussed at the hearing, however, will be carefully documented.
(c) Any review required by this part, whether a review of the written record or an oral hearing, shall be conducted by a hearing official. In the case of a salary offset, the hearing official shall not be under the supervision or control of the Chairman of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation.
(d) The Corporation may be represented by legal counsel. The debtor may represent himself or herself or may be represented by an individual of the debtor's choice and at the debtor's expense.
(e) The hearing official shall issue a final written decision based on documentary evidence and, if applicable, information developed at an oral hearing. The written decision shall be issued as soon as practicable after the review but not later than 60 days after the date on which the request for review was received by the Corporation, unless the debtor requests a delay in the proceedings. A delay in the proceedings shall be granted if the hearing official determines, in his or her sole discretion, that there is good cause to grant
the delay. If a delay is granted, the 60-day decision period shall be extended by the number of days by which the review was postponed.
(f) Upon issuance of the written opinion, the Corporation shall promptly notify the debtor of the hearing official's decision. Said notification shall include a copy of the written decision issued by the hearing official pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
§ 1408.11
Special review.
(a) An employee subject to salary offset, under subpart C of this part, or a voluntary repayment agreement, may, at any time, request a special review by the Corporation of the amount of the salary offset or voluntary repayment, based on materially changed circumstances such as, but not limited to, catastrophic illness, divorce, death, or disability.
(b) To determine whether an offset would prevent the employee from meeting essential subsistence expenses (costs incurred for food, housing, clothing, transportation, and medical care), the employee shall submit a detailed statement and supporting documents for the employee, his or her spouse, and dependents indicating:
(1) Income from all sources;
(2) Assets;
(3) Liabilities;
(4) Number of dependents;
(5) Expenses for food, housing, clothing, and transportation;
(6) Medical expenses; and
(7) Exceptional expenses, if any.
(c) If the employee requests a special review under this section, the employee shall file an alternative proposed offset or payment schedule and a statement, with supporting documents, showing why the current salary offset or payments result in an extreme financial hardship to the employee.
(d) The Corporation shall evaluate the statement and supporting documents, and determine whether the original offset or repayment schedule imposes an undue financial hardship on the employee. The Corporation shall notify the employee in writing of such determination, including, if appropriate, a revised offset or payment schedule.
§ 1408.12
Charges for interest, administrative costs, and penalties.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the Corporation shall:
(1) Assess interest on unpaid claims;
(2) Assess administrative costs incurred in processing and handling overdue claims; and
(3) Assess penalty charges not to exceed 6 percent a year on any part of a debt more than 90 days past due.
The imposition of charges for interest, administrative costs, and penalties shall be made in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717.
(b)(1) Interest shall accrue from the date of mailing or hand delivery of the initial demand for payment or the Notice of Intent to Collect by either Administrative or Salary Offset if the amount of the claim is not paid within 30 days from the date of mailing or hand delivery of the initial demand or notice.
(2) The 30-day period may be extended on a case-by-case basis if the Corporation reasonably determines that such action is appropriate. Interest shall only accrue on the principal of the claim and the interest rate shall remain fixed for the duration of the indebtedness, except, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, in cases where a debtor has defaulted on a repayment agreement and seeks to enter into a new agreement, or if the Corporation reasonably determines that a higher rate is necessary to protect the interests of the United States.
(c) If a debtor defaults on a repayment agreement and seeks to enter into a new agreement, the Corporation may assess a new interest rate on the unpaid claim. In addition, charges for interest, administrative costs, and penalties which accrued but were not collected under the original repayment agreement shall be added to the principal of the claim to be paid under the new repayment agreement. Interest shall accrue on the entire principal balance of the claim, as adjusted to reflect any increase resulting from the addition of these charges.
(d) The Corporation may waive charges for interest, administrative costs, and/or penalties if it determines that:
(1) The debtor is unable to pay any significant sum toward the claim within a reasonable period of time;
(2) Collection of charges for interest, administrative costs, and/or penalties would jeopardize collection of the principal of the claim;
(3) Collection of charges for interest, administrative costs, or penalties would be against equity and good conscience; or
(4) It is otherwise in the best interest of the United States, including the situation where an installment payment agreement or offset is in effect.
§ 1408.13
Contracting for collection services.
The Chairman, or designee of the Chairman, may contract for collection services in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718 and 4 CFR 102.6 to recover debts.
§ 1408.14
Reporting of credit information.
The Chairman, or designee of the Chairman, may disclose to a consumer reporting agency information that an individual is responsible for a debt owed to the United States. Information will be disclosed to reporting agencies in accordance with the terms and conditions of agreements entered into between the Corporation and the reporting agencies. The terms and conditions of such agreements shall specify that all of the rights and protection afforded to the debtor under 31 U.S.C. 3711(f) have been fulfilled. The Corporation shall notify each consumer reporting agency, to which a claim was disclosed, when the debt has been satisfied.
§ 1408.15
Credit report.
In order to aid the Corporation in making appropriate determinations regarding the collection and compromise of claims; the collection of charges for interest, administrative costs, and penalties; the use of administrative offset; the use of other collection methods; and the likelihood of collecting the claim, the Corporation may institute, consistent with the provisions of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681,
et seq.
), a credit investigation of the debtor immediately following a determination that the claim exists.

# Subpart B—Administrative Offset
§ 1408.20
Applicability.
(a) The provisions of this subpart shall apply to the collection of debts by administrative [or salary] offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, 5 U.S.C. 5514, or other statutory or common law.
(b) Offset shall not be used to collect a debt more than 10 years after the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, unless facts material to the Government's right to collect the debt were not known and could not reasonably have been known by the official or officials of the Government who were charged with the responsibility of discovering and collecting such debt.
(c) Offset shall not be used with respect to:
(1) Debts owed by other agencies of the United States or by any State or local government;
(2) Debts arising under or payments made under the Social Security Act, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or tariff laws of the United States; or
(3) Any case in which collection by offset of the type of debt involved is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute.
(d) Unless otherwise provided by contract or law, debts or payments which are not subject to offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 or 5 U.S.C. 5514 may be collected by offset if such collection is authorized under common law or other applicable statutory authority.
§ 1408.21
Collection by offset.
(a) Collection of a debt by administrative [or salary] offset shall be accomplished in accordance with the provisions of these regulations, 4 CFR 102.3, and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K. It is not necessary for the debt to be reduced to judgment or to be undisputed for offset to be used.
(b) The Chairman, or designee of the Chairman, may determine that it is feasible to collect a debt to the United States by offset against funds payable to the debtor.
(c) The feasibility of collecting a debt by offset will be determined on a case-by-case basis. This determination shall be made by considering all relevant factors, including the following: (1) The
degree to which the offset can be accomplished in accordance with law. This determination should take into consideration relevant statutory, regulatory, and contractual requirements;
(2) The degree to which the Corporation is certain that its determination of the existence and amount of the debt is correct;
(3) The practicality of collecting the debt by offset. The cost, in time and money, of collecting the debt by offset and the amount of money which can reasonably be expected to be recovered through offset will be relevant to this determination; and
(4) Whether the use of offset will substantially interfere with or defeat the purpose of a program authorizing payments against which the offset is contemplated. For example, under a grant program in which payments are made in advance of the grantee's performance, the imposition of offset against such a payment may be inappropriate.
(d) The collection of a debt by offset may not be feasible when there are circumstances which would indicate that the likelihood of collection by offset is less than probable.
(e) The offset will be effected 31 days after the debtor receives a Notice of Intent to Collect by Administrative Offset (or Notice of Intent to Collect by Salary Offset if the offset is a salary offset), or upon the expiration of a stay of offset, unless the Corporation determines under § 1408.24 that immediate action is necessary.
(f) If the debtor owes more than one debt, amounts recovered through offset may be applied to them in any order. Applicable statutes of limitation would be considered before applying the amounts recovered to any debts owed.
§ 1408.22
Notice requirements before offset.
(a) Except as provided in § 1408.24, the Corporation will provide the debtor with 30 calendar days' written notice that unpaid debt amounts shall be collected by administrative [or salary] offset (Notice of Intent to Collect by Administrative [or Salary] Offset) before the Corporation imposes offset against any money that is to be paid to the debtor.
(b) The Notice of Intent to Collect by Administrative [or Salary] Offset shall be delivered to the debtor by hand or by mail and shall provide the following information:
(1) The amount of the debt, the date it was incurred, and the facts upon which the determination of indebtedness was made;
(2) In the case of an administrative offset, the payment due date, which shall be 30 calendar days from the date of mailing or hand delivery of the Notice;
(3) In the case of a salary offset:
(i) The Corporation's intention to collect the debt by means of deduction from the employee's current disposable pay account until the debt and all accumulated interest is paid in full; and
(ii) The amount, frequency, proposed beginning date, and duration of the intended deductions;
(4) The right of the debtor to inspect and copy the records of the Corporation related to the claim or to receive copies if personal inspection is impractical. The debtor shall be informed that he/she shall be assessed for the cost of copying the documents in accordance with § 1408.7 of this part;
(5) The right of the debtor to obtain a review of, and to request a hearing, on the Corporation's determination of indebtedness, the propriety of collecting the debt by offset, and, in the case of salary offset, the propriety of the proposed repayment schedule (i.e., the percentage of disposable pay to be deducted each pay period). The debtor shall be informed that to obtain a review, the debtor shall deliver a written request for a review to the Corporation official named in the Notice, within 15 calendar days after the debtor's receipt of the Notice. In the case of a salary offset, the debtor shall also be informed that the review shall be conducted by an official arranged for by the Corporation who shall be a hearing official not under the control of the Chairman of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, or an administrative law judge;
(6) That the filing of a petition for hearing within 15 calendar days after receipt of the Notice will stay the commencement of collection proceedings;
(7) That a final decision on the hearing (if one is requested) will be issued at the earliest practical date, but not later than 60 days after the filing of the written request for review unless the employee requests, and the hearing official grants, a delay in the proceedings;
(8) The right of the debtor to offer to enter into a written agreement with the Corporation to repay the amount of the claim. The debtor shall be informed that the acceptance of such an agreement is discretionary with the Corporation;
(9) That charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs shall be assessed against the debtor, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717, if payment is not received by the payment due date. The debtor shall be informed that such assessments must be made unless excused in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards (4 CFR parts 103 and 104);
(10) The amount of accrued interest and the amount of any other penalties or administrative costs which may have been added to the principal debt;
(11) That if the debtor has not entered into an agreement with the Corporation to pay the debt, has not requested the Corporation to review the debt, or has not paid the debt prior to the date on which the offset is to be imposed, the Corporation intends to collect the debt by administrative [or salary] offset or by requesting other Federal agencies for assistance in collecting the debt by offset. The debtor shall be informed that the offset shall be imposed against any funds that might become available to the debtor, until the principal debt and all accumulated interest and other charges are paid in full;
(12) The date on which the offset will be imposed, which shall be 31 calendar days from the date of mailing or hand delivery of the Notice. The debtor shall be informed that the Corporation reserves the right to impose an offset prior to this date if the Corporation determines that immediate action is necessary;
(13) That any knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the debtor to:
(i) Penalties under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729 through 3731, or any other applicable statutory authority;
(ii) Criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 1001, and 1002, or any other applicable statutory authority; and, with regard to employees,
(iii) Disciplinary procedures appropriate under 5 U.S.C. chapter 75; 5 CFR part 752, or any other applicable statute or regulation;
(14) The name and address of the Corporation official to whom the debtor shall send all correspondence relating to the debt or the offset;
(15) Any other rights and remedies available to the debtor under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made;
(16) That unless there are applicable contractual or statutory provisions to the contrary, amounts paid on or deducted for the debt, which are later waived or found not owed to the United States, will be promptly refunded to the employee; and
(17) Other information, as may be appropriate.
(c) When the procedural requirements of this section have been provided to the debtor in connection with the same debt or under some other statutory or regulatory authority, the Corporation is not required to duplicate those requirements before effecting offset.
§ 1408.23
Right to review of claim.
(a) If the debtor disputes the claim, the debtor may request a review of the Corporation's determination of the existence of the debt, the amount of the debt, the propriety of collecting the debt by offset, and in the case of salary offset, the propriety of the proposed repayment schedule. If only part of the claim is disputed, the undisputed portion should be paid by the payment due date.
(b) To obtain a review, the debtor shall submit a written request for review to the Corporation official named in the Notice of Intent to Collect by Administrative [or Salary] Offset within 15 calendar days after receipt of the notice. The debtor's written request for review shall state the basis on which the claim is disputed and shall specify whether the debtor requests an oral hearing or a review of the written
record of the claim. If an oral hearing is requested, the debtor shall explain in the request why the matter cannot be resolved by a review of the documentary evidence alone.
(c) The Corporation shall promptly notify the debtor, in writing, that the Corporation has received the request for review. The Corporation shall conduct its review of the claim in accordance with § 1408.10.
(d) The Corporation's review of the claim, under this section, shall include providing the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing if:
(1) An applicable statute authorizes or requires the Corporation to consider waiver of the indebtedness, the debtor requests waiver of the indebtedness, and the waiver determination turns on an issue of credibility or veracity; or
(2) The debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and the Corporation determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by reviewing the documentary evidence; for example, when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity.
(e) A debtor waives the right to a hearing and will have his or her debt offset in accordance with the proposed offset schedule if the debtor:
(1) Fails to file a written request for review within the timeframe set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, unless the Corporation determines that the delay was the result of circumstances beyond his or her control; or
(2) Fails to appear at an oral hearing of which he or she was notified unless the hearing official determines that the failure to appear was due to circumstances beyond the employee's control.
(f) Upon completion of its review of the claim, the Corporation shall notify the debtor whether the Corporation's determination of the existence or amount of the debt has been sustained, amended, or canceled. The notification shall include a copy of the written decision issued by the hearing official, pursuant to § 1408.10(e). If the Corporation's determination is sustained, this notification shall contain a provision which states that the Corporation intends to collect the debt by offset or by requesting other Federal agencies for assistance in collecting the debt.
(g) When the procedural requirements of this section have been provided to the debtor in connection with the same debt or under some other statutory or regulatory authority, the Corporation is not required to duplicate those requirements before effecting offset.
§ 1408.24
Waiver of procedural requirements.
(a) The Corporation may impose offset against a payment to be made to a debtor prior to the completion of the procedures required by this part, if:
(1) Failure to impose the offset would substantially prejudice the Government's ability to collect the debt; and
(2) The timing of the payment against which the offset will be imposed does not reasonably permit the completion of those procedures.
(b) The procedures required by this part shall be complied with promptly after the offset is imposed. Amounts recovered by offset, which are later found not to be owed to the Government, shall be promptly refunded to the debtor.
§ 1408.25
Coordinating offset with other Federal agencies.
(a)(1) Any creditor agency which requests the Corporation to impose an offset against amounts owed to the debtor shall submit to the Corporation a claim certification which meets the requirements of this paragraph. The Corporation shall submit the same certification to any agency that the Corporation requests to effect an offset.
(2) The claim certification shall be in writing. It shall certify the debtor owes the debt and that all of the applicable requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3716 and 4 CFR part 102 have been met. If the intended offset is to be a salary offset, a claim certification shall instead certify that the debtor owes the debt and that the applicable requirements of 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, have been met.
(3) A certification that the debtor owes the debt shall state the amount of the debt, the factual basis supporting the determination of indebtedness, and the date on which payment of the debt
was due. A certification that the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3716 and 4 CFR part 102 have been met shall include a statement that the debtor has been sent a Notice of Intent to Collect by Administrative Offset at least 31 calendar days prior to the date of the intended offset or a statement that pursuant to 4 CFR 102.3(b)(5) said Notice was not required to be sent. A certification that the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, have been met shall include a statement that the debtor has been sent a Notice of Intent to Collect by Salary Offset at least 31 calendar days prior to the date of the intended offset or a statement that pursuant to 4 CFR 102.3(b)(5) said Notice was not required to be sent.
(b)(1) The Corporation shall not effect an offset requested by another Federal agency without first obtaining the claim certification required by paragraph (a) of this section. If the Corporation receives an incomplete claim certification, the Corporation shall return the claim certification with notice that a claim certification which complies with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section must be submitted to the Corporation before the Corporation will consider effecting an offset.
(2) The Corporation may rely on the information contained in the claim certification provided by a requesting creditor agency. The Corporation is not authorized to review a creditor agency's determination of indebtedness.
(c) Only the creditor agency may agree to enter into an agreement with the debtor for the repayment of the claim. Only the creditor agency may agree to compromise, suspend, or terminate collection of the claim.
(d) The Corporation may decline, for good cause, a request by another agency to effect an offset. Good cause includes that the offset might disrupt, directly or indirectly, essential Corporation operations. The refusal and the reasons shall be sent in writing to the creditor agency.
§ 1408.26
Stay of offset.
(a)(1) When a creditor agency receives a debtor's request for inspection of agency records, the offset is stayed for 10 calendar days beyond the date set for the record inspection.
(2) When a creditor agency receives a debtor's offer to enter into a repayment agreement, the offset is stayed until the debtor is notified as to whether the proposed agreement is acceptable.
(3) When a review is conducted, the offset is stayed until the creditor agency issues a final written decision.
(b) When offset is stayed, the amount of the debt and the amount of any accrued interest or other charges will be withheld from payments to the debtor. The withheld amounts shall not be applied against the debt until the stay expires. If withheld funds are later determined not to be subject to offset, they will be promptly refunded to the debtor.
(c) If the Corporation is the creditor agency and the offset is stayed, the Corporation will immediately notify an offsetting agency to withhold the payment pending termination of the stay.
§ 1408.27
Offset against amounts payable from Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
The Corporation may request that monies payable to a debtor from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund be administratively offset to collect debts owed to the Corporation by the debtor. The Corporation must certify that the debtor owes the debt, the amount of the debt, and that the Corporation has complied with the requirements set forth in this part, 4 CFR 102.3, and the Office of Personnel Management regulations. The request shall be submitted to the official designated in the Office of Personnel Management regulations to receive the request.

# Subpart C—Offset Against Salary
§ 1408.35
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement section 5 of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-365 (5 U.S.C. 5514)), which authorizes the collection of debts owed by Federal employees to the Federal Government by means of salary offsets. These regulations provide procedures for the collection of a debt owed to the Government by the
imposition of a salary offset against amounts payable to a Federal employee as salary. These regulations are consistent with the regulations on salary offset published by the Office of Personnel Management, codified in 5 CFR part 550, subpart K. Since salary offset is a type of administrative offset, the requirements of subpart B also apply to salary offsets.
§ 1408.36
Applicability of regulations.
(a) These regulations apply to the following cases:
(1) Where the Corporation is owed a debt by an individual currently employed by another agency;
(2) Where the Corporation is owed a debt by an individual who is currently employed by the Corporation; or
(3) Where the Corporation currently employs an individual who owes a debt to another Federal agency. Upon receipt of proper certification from the creditor agency, the Corporation will offset the debtor-employee's salary in accordance with these regulations.
(b) These regulations do not apply to the following: (1) Debts or claims arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
); the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
); the tariff laws of the United States; or to any case where collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute (e.g., travel advances in 5 U.S.C. 5705 and employee training expenses in 5 U.S.C. 4108).
(2) Any adjustment to pay arising from an employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less.
(3) A claim which has been outstanding for more than 10 years after the creditor agency's right to collect the debt first accrued, unless facts material to the Government's right to collect were not known and could not reasonably have been known by the official or officials charged with the responsibility for discovery and collection of such debts.
§ 1408.37
Definitions.
In this subpart, the following definitions shall apply:
(a)
Agency
means:
(1) An executive agency as defined by 5 U.S.C. 105, including the United States Postal Service and the United States Postal Rate Commission;
(2) A military department as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102;
(3) An agency or court of the judicial branch, including a court as defined in 28 U.S.C. 610, the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Judicial Panel on Multi-district Litigation;
(4) An agency of the legislative branch, including the United States Senate and the United States House of Representatives; or
(5) Other independent establishments that are entities of the Federal Government.
(b)
Disposable pay
means, for an officially established pay interval, that part of current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or, in the case of an employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay remaining after the deduction of any amount required by law to be withheld. The Corporation shall allow the deductions described in 5 CFR 581.105 (b) through (f).
(c)
Employee
means a current employee of the Corporation or other agency, including a current member of the Armed Forces or Reserve of the Armed Forces of the United States.
(d)
Waiver
means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or nonrecovery of a debt allegedly owed by an employee to the Corporation or another agency as permitted or required by 5 U.S.C. 5584 or 8346(b), 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, or any other law.
§ 1408.38
Waiver requests and claims to the General Accounting Office.
(a) The regulations contained in this subpart do not preclude an employee from requesting a waiver of an overpayment under 5 U.S.C. 5584 or 8346(b), 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, or in any way questioning the amount or validity of a debt by submitting a subsequent claim to the General Accounting
Office in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the General Accounting Office.
(b) These regulations also do not preclude an employee from requesting a waiver pursuant to other statutory provisions pertaining to the particular debts being collected.
§ 1408.39
Procedures for salary offset.
(a) The Chairman, or designee of the Chairman, shall determine the amount of an employee's disposable pay and the amount to be deducted from the employee's disposable pay at regular pay intervals.
(b) Deductions shall begin within three official pay periods following the date of mailing or delivery of the Notice of Intent to Collect by Salary Offset.
(c)(1) If the amount of the debt is equal to or is less than 15 percent of the employee's disposable pay, such debt should be collected in one lump-sum deduction.
(2) If the amount of the debt is not collected in one lump-sum deduction, the debt shall be collected in installment deductions over a period of time not greater than the anticipated period of employment. The size and frequency of installment deductions will bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay. However, the amount deducted from any pay period will not exceed 15 percent of the employee's disposable pay for that period, unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount.
(3) A deduction exceeding the 15-percent disposable pay limitation may be made from any final salary payment pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716 in order to liquidate the debt, whether the employee is being separated voluntarily or involuntarily.
(4) Whenever an employee subject to salary offset is separated from the Corporation and the balance of the debt cannot be liquidated by offset of the final salary check pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716, the Corporation may offset any later payments of any kind against the balance of the debt.
(d) In instances where two or more creditor agencies are seeking salary offsets against current employees of the Corporation or where two or more debts are owed to a single creditor agency, the Corporation, at its discretion, may determine whether one or more debts should be offset simultaneously within the 15-percent limitation. Debts owed to the Corporation should generally take precedence over debts owed to other agencies.
§ 1408.40
Refunds.
(a) In instances where the Corporation is the creditor agency, it shall promptly refund any amounts deducted under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 5514 when:
(1) The debt is waived or otherwise found not to be owed to the United States (unless expressly prohibited by statute or regulations); or
(2) An administrative or judicial order directs the Corporation to make a refund.
(b) Unless required or permitted by law or contract, refunds under this section shall not bear interest.
§ 1408.41
Requesting current paying agency to offset salary.
(a) To request a paying agency to impose a salary offset against amounts owed to the debtor, the Corporation shall provide the paying agency with a claim certification which meets the requirements set forth in § 1408.25(a) of this part. The Corporation shall also provide the paying agency with a repayment schedule determined under the provisions of § 1408.39 or in accordance with a repayment agreement entered into with the debtor.
(b) If the employee separates from the paying agency before the debt is paid in full, the paying agency shall certify the total amount collected on the debt. A copy of this certification shall be sent to the employee and a copy shall be sent to the Corporation. If the paying agency is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, or other similar payments, it must provide written notification to the agency responsible for making such payments that the debtor owes a debt (including the amount) and that the provisions of this section have been fully complied with. However, the Corporation must submit a properly
certified claim to the agency responsible for making such payments before the collection can be made.
(c) When an employee transfers to another paying agency, the Corporation is not required to repeat the due process procedures set forth in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and this part to resume the collection. The Corporation shall, however, review the debt upon receiving the former paying agency's notice of the employee's transfer to make sure the collection is resumed by the new paying agency.
(d) If a special review is conducted pursuant to § 1408.11 and results in a revised offset or repayment schedule, the Corporation shall provide a new claim certification to the paying agency.
§ 1408.42
Responsibility of the Corporation as the paying agency.
(a) When the Corporation receives a claim certification from a creditor agency, deductions should be scheduled to begin at the next officially established pay interval. The Corporation shall send the debtor written notice which provides:
(1) That the Corporation has received a valid claim certification from the creditor agency;
(2) The date on which salary offset will begin;
(3) The amount of the debt; and
(4) The amount of such deductions.
(b) If, after the creditor agency has submitted the claim certification to the Corporation, the employee transfers to a different agency before the debt is collected in full, the Corporation must certify the total amount collected on the debt. The Corporation shall send a copy of this certification to the creditor agency and a copy to the employee. If the Corporation is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement Fund and Disability Fund, or other similar payments, it shall provide written notification to the agency responsible for making such payments that the debtor owes a debt (including the amount).
§ 1408.43
Nonwaiver of rights by payments.
An employee's involuntary payment of all or any portion of a debt being collected under this subpart shall not be construed as a waiver of any rights the employee may have under 5 U.S.C. 5514 or any other provisions of a written contract or law unless there are statutory or contractual provisions to the contrary.
Pt. 1410

# PART 1410—PREMIUMS
Sec.
1410.1
Purpose and scope.
1410.2
Definitions.
1410.3
Calculation and reporting of premiums due.
1410.4
Payment of premiums.
1410.5
Delinquent premium payments and premium overpayments.
1410.6
Certified statements.
1410.7
Documentation.

# Authority:
Secs. 12 U.S.C. 2020, 2277a-4, 2277a-5, 2277a-7.

# Source:
56 FR 3201, Jan. 29, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1410.1
Purpose and scope.
This part sets forth the rules for:
(a) The calculation of premiums;
(b) The time for payment of the premium required by sections 5.55 and 5.56 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended;
(c) Interest charges on delinquent payments;
(d) The form and content of certified statements; and,
(e) Documentation supporting certified statements.
§ 1410.2
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended.
(b)
Average principal outstanding
means the average annual principal outstanding on a daily basis using balances as of the close of each day. In computing the average annual principal outstanding in this manner, the closing balance of the most recent past business day shall be the closing balance for days when an institution is closed.
(c)
Direct lending association
means any production credit association or any other association making direct loans under authority provided under
section 7.6 of the Act, including, without limitation, agricultural credit associations and Federal land credit associations.
(d)
Government-guaranteed loans or investments
means loans or credits or investments, or portions of loans or credits or investments, that are guaranteed:
(1) By the full faith and credit of the United States Government or any State government; or,
(2) By an agency or other entity of the United States Government whose obligations are explicitly guaranteed by the United States Government; or,
(3) By an agency or other entity of a State government whose obligations are explicitly guaranteed by such State government.
(e)
Insured bank
means any Farm Credit bank whose participation in notes, bonds, debentures, and other obligations issued under subsection (c) or (d) of section 4.2 of the Act is insured under part E of title V of the Act, including, without limitation, banks that are in or are placed in receivership or conservatorship to the extent that those banks' participation in such obligations is insured.
(f)
Loan
means any extension of credit or lease resulting from direct negotiations between a lender and a borrowing entity that is recorded as an asset of an insured bank, a direct lending association, or an other financing institution. The term “loan” includes loans, contracts of sale, notes receivable, and other similar obligations and lease financings. The term “loan” includes loans originated through direct negotiations between the insured bank, direct lending association, or other financing institution and a borrowing entity and loans or interests in loans purchased from another lender. Loans purchased subject to recourse shall be considered loans of the seller to the extent of the recourse.
(g)(1)
Nonaccrual loan
means any loan where—
(i) Any amount of outstanding principal and all past and future interest accruals, considered over the full term of the asset, are determined to be uncollectible for any reason; or,
(ii) It has been classified “loss” as a result of a periodic credit evaluation and has not been charged off; or,
(iii) The loan is severely past due and is not adequately secured, in process of collection, and fully collectible with respect to all principal and interest.
(2) For the purposes of determining whether a loan is considered as accrual or nonaccrual under this part, all loans on which a borrowing entity, or a component of a borrowing entity, is primarily obligated to the institution shall be considered as one loan unless a review of all pertinent facts supports a reasonable determination that a particular loan constitutes an independent credit risk and such determination is adequately documented in the loan file.
(h)
Other financing institution
means any bank, company, institution, corporation, union, or association described in section 1.7(b)(1)(B) of the Act.
[56 FR 3201, Jan. 29, 1991; 56 FR 10302, Mar. 11, 1991; 74 FR 17373, Apr. 15, 2009]
§ 1410.3
Calculation and reporting of premiums due.
(a)
Reporting.
For purposes of computing premiums, each insured bank shall, without limitation, report all information concerning the insured bank; each direct lending association that is receiving (or has received) funds provided through the insured bank; and each other financing institution that is receiving (or has received) funds provided through the insured bank; that the Corporation determines is necessary in order to compute the premiums due under the Act.
(b)
Calculating the premium payment for periods from July 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008.
(1) The premium payment for the 3rd Quarter 2008 (defined for purposes of this section as the period from July 1, 2008 through September 30, 2008) and the premium payment for the 4th Quarter 2008 (defined for purposes of this section as the period October 1, 2008, through December 31, 2008) shall be equal to 25 percent of the amount computed by applying the premium calculation formulas contained in sections 5.55 and 5.56 of the Act (unless reduced by the Corporation acting under section 5.55(a)(3) of the
Act or under paragraph (d) of this section) to the insured bank during the 3rd Quarter 2008 or 4th Quarter 2008, respectively.
(2) In accord with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the premium payment for the 3rd Quarter 2008 (having been reduced by the Corporation acting under section 5.55(a)(3) of the Act) shall be equal to 25 percent of the following amount:
(i) The average outstanding insured obligations issued by the bank for the period, after deducting from the obligations the percentages of the guaranteed portions of loans and investments described in section 5.55(a)(2) of the Act, multiplied by 0.0015; and
(ii) The product obtained by multiplying—
(A) The sum of—
(
1
) The average principal outstanding for the period on loans made by the bank (computed in accord with section 5.55 of the Act) that are in nonaccrual status; and
(
2
) The average amount outstanding for the period of other-than-temporarily impaired investments made by the bank (computed in accord with section 5.55 of the Act);
(B) By 0.0010.
(3) In accord with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the premium payment for the 4th Quarter 2008 (having been reduced by the Corporation acting under section 5.55(a)(3) of the Act) shall be equal to 25 percent of the following amount:
(i) The average outstanding insured obligations issued by the bank for the period, after deducting from the obligations the percentages of the guaranteed portions of loans and investments described in section 5.55(a)(2) of the Act, multiplied by 0.0018; and
(ii) The product obtained by multiplying—
(A) The sum of—
(
1
) The average principal outstanding for the period on loans made by the bank (computed in accord with section 5.55 of the Act) that are in nonaccrual status; and
(
2
) The average amount outstanding for the period of other-than-temporarily impaired investments made by the bank (computed in accord with section 5.55 of the Act);
(B) By 0.0010.
(c)
Calculating the premium payment for periods in 2009 and subsequent years.
(1) The premium payment for periods in calendar year 2009 and subsequent years shall be equal to the amount computed by applying the premium calculation formulas contained in sections 5.55 and 5.56 of the Act (unless reduced by the Corporation acting under section 5.55(a)(3) of the Act or under paragraph (d) of this section) to the insured bank during the period.
(2) In accord with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the premium payment for the period shall (unless reduced by the Corporation acting under section 5.55(a)(3) of the Act or under paragraph (d) of this section) be equal to:
(i) The average outstanding insured obligations issued by the bank for the period, after deducting from the obligations the percentages of the guaranteed portions of loans and investments described in section 5.55(a)(2), multiplied by 0.0020; and
(ii) The product obtained by multiplying—
(A) The sum of—
(
1
) The average principal outstanding for the period on loans made by the bank (computed in accord with section 5.55 of the Act) that are in nonaccrual status; and
(
2
) The average amount outstanding for the period of other than temporarily impaired investments made by the bank (computed in accord with section 5.55 of the Act);
(B) By 0.0010.
(d)
Secure base amount
. In addition to the Corporation's authority to reduce premiums under section 5.55(a)(3) of the Act, upon reaching the secure base amount determined by the Corporation in accordance with section 5.55 of the Act, the annual premium to be paid by each insured bank, computed in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, shall be reduced by a percentage determined by the Corporation so that the aggregate of the premiums payable by all of the Farm Credit banks for the following calendar year is sufficient to ensure that the Insurance Fund balance is maintained at not less than the secure base amount. The Corporation shall announce any such percentage no later than December 31
of the year prior to the January in which such premiums are to be paid.
[74 FR 17373, Apr. 15, 2009]
§ 1410.4
Payment of premiums.
(a)
Payments.
Each insured bank shall pay to the Corporation the amount of the premium due to the Corporation computed in accordance with sections 5.55 and 5.56 of the Act, and § 1410.3 of this part, and shown on its certified statement, at the time the statement is filed. Certified statements shall be considered to have been filed and payments made in a timely manner if they are received on or before January 31 following the end of the calendar year on which the certified statement is based.
(b)
Premiums as obligations of insured banks.
Premiums required to be paid by § 1410.3 are obligations of the insured banks, and are to be paid at the times required by this section, regardless of whether the insured bank has assessed and collected any assessments under section 1.12 of the Act.
[56 FR 3201, Jan. 29, 1991; 56 FR 10302, Mar. 11, 1991; 74 FR 17374, Apr. 15, 2009]
§ 1410.5
Delinquent premium payments and premium overpayments.
(a)
Delinquent payments.
Each insured bank shall pay to the Corporation interest on delinquent premium payments. All premiums will be considered delinquent if they are received after the time for payment specified in § 1410.4 of this part, including late payments caused by bank errors in the certified statement. The interest rate will be the United States Treasury Department's current value of funds rate, which is issued under the Treasury Fiscal Requirements Manual (TFRM rate) and published quarterly in the
Federal Register.
The interest rate will be determined as follows:
(1)
Current year.
(i) For delinquent days occurring on or prior to March 31, the rate will be the TFRM rate that is published in the preceding December.
(ii) For delinquent days occurring from April 1 to June 30, the rate will be the TFRM rate that is published in March for the second quarter of the year.
(iii) For delinquent days occurring from July 1 to September 30, the rate will be the TFRM rate that is published in June for the third quarter.
(iv) For delinquent days occurring from October 1 to December 31, the rate will be the TFRM rate that is published in September for the fourth quarter.
(2)
Prior years.
The interest will be calculated quarterly and compounded annually at the rates applicable for each quarter as issued under the TFRM. For the initial year, the rate will be applied to the gross amount of the delinquent payment. For each additional year or portion thereof the rate will be applied to the net amount of the delinquent payment after it has been reduced by any premium credit under paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Other rights and remedies.
Payment of the interest specified in paragraph (a) of this section does not affect any other rights and remedies available to the Corporation.
(c)
Overpayments.
To the extent that any payment by a bank exceeds the required amount:
(1) The excess shall be credited against future premium payments by the bank which overpaid; or,
(2)(i) Upon written request to the Corporation by the bank which overpaid, the excess shall be refunded to the bank within 30 days of receipt of the written request; and
(ii) If the Corporation fails to make a refund within such 30-day period, and the Corporation determines that a refund is in order, the Corporation shall pay to the bank interest on the amount of the overpayment, from the end of such 30-day period through the date the refund is issued.
§ 1410.6
Certified statements.
(a)
Forms.
The certified statements required to be filed by insured banks under the provisions of section 5.56 of the Act shall be filed with the Corporation. The certified statement forms will be furnished to all insured banks by, or may be obtained from, the Corporation.
(b)
Amendments to certified statements.
In the event of an amendment or correction of a previously submitted certified statement, the amending insured
bank shall resubmit to the Corporation the appropriate certified statement along with a letter of explanation regarding the amendment or correction.
[56 FR 3201, Jan. 29, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 57233, Nov. 8, 1991; 74 FR 17374, Apr. 15, 2009]
§ 1410.7
Documentation.
Each insured bank shall:
(a) Prepare and maintain accurate and complete records as necessary to prepare certified statements, including, but not limited to, records relating to the loans of each direct lending association and other financing institution that are able to make such loans because they are receiving, or have received, funding from the insured bank.
(b) Prepare and maintain on its premises books and records in such a manner as to facilitate reconciliation with certified statements prepared from them.
(c) Maintain in its books and records documentation supporting its certified statement for a period no less than 5 years following the date of each certified statement, unless the bank shall have requested in writing, and the Corporation shall have granted to the bank, written permission to dispose of such documentation prior to the expiration of 5 years.
(d) Make all records and any supporting documentation available, without limitation, to Corporation officials upon request.
Pt. 1411

# PART 1411—RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 2277a-7(10), 2277a-14(c) and (d); 28 U.S.C. 2461
note.

# Subpart A—Rules and Procedures for Assessment and Collection of Civil Money Penalties
§ 1411.1
Inflation adjustment of civil money penalties for failure to file a certified statement, pay any premium required or obtain approval before employment of persons convicted of criminal offenses.
In accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended, a civil money penalty imposed pursuant to section 5.65(c) or (d) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, shall not exceed $257 per day for each day the violation continues.
[89 FR 1445, Jan. 10, 2024]
Pt. 1412

# PART 1412—GOLDEN PARACHUTE AND INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENTS
Sec.
1412.1
Scope.
1412.2
Definitions.
1412.3
Golden parachute payments prohibited.
1412.4
Prohibited indemnification payments.
1412.5
Permissible golden parachute payments.
1412.6
Permissible indemnification payments.
1412.7
Filing instructions.
1412.8
Application in the event of receivership.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 2277a-10b.

# Source:
71 FR 7405, Feb. 13, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1412.1
Scope.
(a) This part limits and/or prohibits, in certain circumstances, the ability of Farm Credit System (System) institutions, their service corporations, subsidiaries and affiliates from making golden parachute and indemnification payments to institution-related parties (IRPs).
(b) This part applies to System institutions in a troubled condition that seek to make golden parachute payments to their IRPs.
(c) The limitations on indemnification payments apply to all System institutions, their service corporations, subsidiaries and affiliates regardless of their financial health.
§ 1412.2
Definitions.
(a)
Act
or
Farm Credit Act
means Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2002(a)), as amended by the Farm Credit System Reform Act of 1996, amending 12 U.S.C. 2277a-10.
(b)
Farm Credit System institution
or
System institution
means any “institution” enumerated in section 1.2 of the Act including, but not limited to, associations, banks, service corporations,
the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation, the Farm Credit Leasing Services Corporation and their subsidiaries and affiliates, as well as, the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliates, as described in 12 U.S.C. 2279aa-1(a).
(c)
Benefit plan
means any plan, contract, agreement or other arrangement which is an “employee welfare benefit plan” as that term is defined in section 3(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (29 U.S.C. 1002(1)), or other usual and customary plans such as dependent care, tuition reimbursement, group legal services or other benefits provided under a cafeteria plan sponsored by the System institution; provided however, that such term shall not include any plan intended to be subject to paragraph (f)(2)(iii), (vii) and (viii) of this section.
(d)
Bona fide deferred compensation plan or arrangement
means any plan, contract, agreement or other arrangement whereby:
(1) An IRP voluntarily elects to defer all or a portion of the reasonable compensation, wages or fees paid for services rendered which otherwise would have been paid to such party at the time the services were rendered (including a plan that provides for the crediting of a reasonable investment return on such elective deferrals) and the System institution either:
(i) Recognizes compensation expense and accrues a liability for the benefit payments according to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); or
(ii) Segregates or otherwise sets aside assets in a trust which may only be used to pay plan and other benefits, except that the assets of such trust may be available to satisfy claims of the System institution's creditors in the case of insolvency; or
(2) The System institution establishes a nonqualified deferred compensation or supplemental retirement plan, other than an elective deferral plan described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section:
(i) Primarily for the purpose of providing benefits for certain IRPs in excess of the limitations on contributions and benefits imposed by sections 415, 401(a)(17), 402(g) or any other applicable provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 415, 401(a)(17), 402(g)); or
(ii) Primarily for the purpose of providing supplemental retirement benefits or other deferred compensation for a select group of directors, management or highly compensated employees (excluding severance payments described in paragraph (f)(2)(v) of this section and permissible golden parachute payments described in § 1412.5); and
(3) In the case of any nonqualified deferred compensation or supplemental retirement plans as described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, the following requirements shall apply:
(i) The plan was in effect at least 1 year prior to any of the events described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section;
(ii) Any payment made pursuant to such plan is made in accordance with the terms of the plan as in effect no later than 1 year prior to any of the events described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section and in accordance with any amendments to such plan during such 1 year period that do not increase the benefits payable thereunder;
(iii) The IRP has a vested right, as defined under the applicable plan document, at the time of termination of employment to payments under such plan;
(iv) Benefits under such plan are accrued each period only for current or prior service rendered to the employer (except that an allowance may be made for service with a predecessor employer);
(v) Any payment made pursuant to such plan is not based on any discretionary acceleration of vesting or accrual of benefits which occurs at any time later than 1 year prior to any of the events described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section;
(vi) The System institution has previously recognized compensation expense and accrued a liability for the benefit payments according to GAAP or segregated or otherwise set aside assets in a trust which may only be used to pay plan benefits, except that the assets of such trust may be available to
satisfy claims of the System institution's creditors in the case of insolvency; and
(vii) Payments pursuant to such plans shall not be in excess of the accrued liability computed in accordance with GAAP.
(e)
Corporation or FCSIC
mean the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, in its corporate capacity.
(f)
Golden parachute payment.
(1) The term “golden parachute payment” means any payment (or any agreement to make any payment) in the nature of compensation by any System institution for the benefit of any current or former IRP pursuant to an obligation of such System institution that:
(i) Is contingent on the termination of such party's primary employment or relationship with the System institution; and
(ii) Is received on or after, or is made in contemplation of, any of the following events:
(A) The insolvency (or similar event) of the System institution which is making the payment or bankruptcy or insolvency (or similar event) of the service corporation, subsidiary or affiliate which is making the payment; or
(B) The System institution is assigned a composite rating of 4 or 5 by the FCA; or
(C) The appointment of any conservator or receiver for such System institution; or
(D) A determination by the Corporation, that the System institution is in a troubled condition, as defined in paragraph (m) of this section; and
(iii) Is payable to an IRP whose employment by or relationship with a System institution is terminated at a time when the System institution by which the IRP is employed or related satisfies any of the conditions enumerated in paragraphs (f)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section, or in contemplation of any of these conditions.
(2)
Exceptions.
The term “golden parachute payment” shall not include:
(i) Any payment made pursuant to a pension or retirement plan which is qualified (or is intended within a reasonable period of time to be qualified) under section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 401); or
(ii) Any payment made pursuant to a benefit plan as that term is defined in paragraph (c) of this section; or
(iii) Any payment made pursuant to a “bona fide” deferred compensation plan or arrangement as defined in paragraph (d) of this section; or
(iv) Any payment made by reason of death or by reason of termination caused by the disability of IRP; or
(v) Any severance or similar payment which is required to be made pursuant to a state statute or foreign law which is applicable to all employers within the appropriate jurisdiction (with the exception of employers that may be exempt due to their small number of employees or other similar criteria); or
(vi) Any other payment which the Corporation determines to be permissible in accordance with § 1412.6, on permissible indemnification payments; or
(vii) Any payment made pursuant to a nondiscriminatory severance pay plan or arrangement that provides for payment of severance benefits to all eligible employees upon involuntary termination other than for cause, voluntary resignation, or early retirement. Furthermore, such severance pay plan or arrangement shall not have been adopted or modified to increase the amount or scope of severance benefits at a time when the System institution was in a condition specified in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section or in contemplation of such a condition without the prior written consent of the FCA; or in lieu of a payment made pursuant to this paragraph;
(viii) Any payment made pursuant to a severance pay plan or arrangement that provides severance benefits upon involuntary termination other than for cause, voluntary resignation, or early retirement. No employee shall receive any payment under this subpart which exceeds the base compensation paid to such employee during the 12 months (or longer period or greater benefit as the Corporation shall consent to) immediately proceeding termination of employment. Furthermore, such severance pay plan or arrangement shall not have been adopted or modified to increase the amount or the scope of the severance benefits at a time when the System institution was in a condition specified in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this
section or in contemplation of such a condition without the written approval of the FCA.
(g) The
FCA
means the Farm Credit Administration.
(h)
Institution-related party (IRP)
means:
(1) Any director, officer, employee, or controlling stockholder (other than another Farm Credit System institution) of, or agent for a System institution;
(2) Any stockholder (other than another Farm Credit System institution), consultant, joint venture partner, and any other person as determined by the FCA (by regulation or case-by-case) who participates in the conduct of the affairs of a System institution; and
(3) Any independent contractor (including any attorney, appraiser, or accountant) who knowingly or recklessly participates in any violation of any law or regulation, any breach of fiduciary duty, or any unsafe or unsound practice, which caused or is likely to cause more than a minimal financial loss to, or a significant adverse effect on, the System institution.
(i)
Liability or legal expense
means:
(1) Any legal or other professional fees and expenses incurred in connection with any claim, proceeding, or action;
(2) The amount of, and any cost incurred in connection with, any settlement of any claim, proceeding, or actions; and
(3) The amount of, any cost incurred in connection with, any judgment or penalty imposed with respect to any claim, processing, or action.
(j)
Nondiscriminatory
means that the plan, contract or arrangement in question applies to all employees of a System institution who meet reasonable and customary eligibility requirements applicable to all employees, such as minimum length of service requirements. A nondiscriminatory plan, contract or arrangement may provide different benefits based only on objective criteria such as salary, total compensation, length of service, job grade or classification, which are applied on a proportionate basis, with a modest disparity in severance benefits relating to any one criterion of 20 percent.
(k)
Payment
means:
(1) Any direct or indirect transfer of any funds or any asset;
(2) Any forgiveness of any debt or other obligation;
(3) The conferring of benefits in the nature of compensation, including but not limited to stock options and stock appreciation rights; or
(4) Any segregation of any funds or assets, the establishment or funding of any trust or the purchase of or arrangement for any letter of credit or other instrument, for the purpose of making, or pursuant to any agreement to make, any payment on or after the date on which such funds or assets are segregated, or at the time of or after such trust is established or letter of credit or other instrument is made available, without regard to whether the obligation to make such payment is contingent on:
(i) The determination, after such date, of the liability for the payment of such amount; or
(ii) The liquidation, after such date, of the amount of such payment.
(l)
Prohibited indemnification payment.
(1) The term “prohibited indemnification payment” means any payment (or any agreement or arrangement to make any payment) by any System institution for the benefit of any person who is or was an IRP of such System institution, to pay or reimburse such person for any civil money penalty or judgment resulting from any administrative or civil action instituted by the FCA, or any other liability or legal expense with regard to any administrative proceeding or civil action instituted by the FCA which results in a final order or settlement pursuant to which such person:
(i) Is assessed a civil money penalty;
(ii) Is removed from office or prohibited from participating in the conduct of the affairs of the institution; or
(iii) Is required to cease and desist from or take any affirmative action with respect to such institution.
(2)
Exceptions.
(i) The term “prohibited indemnification” payment shall not include any reasonable payment by a System institution which is used to purchase any commercial insurance policy or fidelity bond, provided that such insurance policy or bond shall not be used to pay or reimburse an IRP for
the cost of any judgment or civil money penalty assessed against such person in an administrative proceeding or civil action commenced by the FCA, but may pay any legal or professional expenses incurred in connection with such proceeding or action or the amount of any restitution to the System institution or receiver.
(ii) The term “prohibited indemnification payment” shall not include any reasonable payment by a System institution that represents partial indemnification for legal or professional expenses specifically attributable to particular charges for which there has been a formal and final adjudication or finding in connection with a settlement that the IRP has not violated certain FCA laws or regulations or has not engaged in certain unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty, unless the administrative action or civil proceedings has resulted in a final prohibition order against the IRP.
(m)
Troubled condition
means a System institution that:
(1) Is subject to a cease-and-desist order or written agreement issued by the FCA that requires action to improve the financial condition of the System institution or is subject to a proceeding initiated by the FCA which contemplates the issuance of an order that requires action to improve the financial condition of the institution, unless otherwise informed in writing by the FCA; or
(2) Is unable to make a timely payment of principal or interest on any insured obligation (as defined in section 5.51(3) of the Farm Credit Act; 12 U.S.C. 2277a(3)); or
(3) Is receiving assistance as described in section 5.61 of the Farm Credit Act, 12 U.S.C. 2277a-10; or
(4) Is unable to make timely payment of principal or interest on debt obligations issued under the authority of section 8.6(e)(2) of the Farm Credit Act; 12 U.S.C. 2279aa-6(e)(2) or is unable to fulfill the guarantee obligations provided under section 8.6 of the Farm Credit Act; 12 U.S.C. 2279aa-6; or
(5) Is informed in writing by the Corporation that it is in a “troubled condition” for purposes of the requirements of this subpart on the basis of the System institution's most recent report of condition or report of examination or other information available to the Corporation.
§ 1412.3
Golden parachute payments prohibited.
No System institution shall make or agree to make any golden parachute payment, except as provided in this part.
§ 1412.4
Prohibited indemnification payments.
No System institution shall make or agree to make any prohibited indemnification payment, except as provided in this part.
§ 1412.5
Permissible golden parachute payments.
(a) A System institution may agree to make or may make a golden parachute payment if and to the extent that:
(1) The FCA, with the written concurrence of the Corporation, determines that such a payment or agreement is permissible; or
(2) Such an agreement is made in order to hire a person to become an IRP either at a time when the System institution satisfies or in an effort to prevent it from imminently satisfying any of the criteria set forth in § 1412.2(f)(1)(ii), and the FCA and the Corporation consent in writing to the amount and terms of the golden parachute payment. Such consent by the Corporation and the FCA shall not improve the IRP's position in the event of the insolvency of the institution since such consent can neither bind a receiver nor affect the provability of receivership claims. In the event that the institution is placed into receivership or conservatorship, the Corporation and/or the FCA shall not be obligated to pay the promised golden parachute and the IRP shall not be accorded preferential treatment on the basis of such prior approval; or
(3) Such a payment is made pursuant to an agreement which provides for a reasonable severance payment, not to exceed 18-months' salary, to an IRP in the event of a change in control of the System institution;
provided, however,
that the System institution shall obtain the consent of the FCA prior to making such a payment and this paragraph (a)(3) shall not apply to any change in control of System institution which results from an assisted transaction as described in section 5.61 of the Farm Credit Act; 12 U.S.C. 2277a-10 or the System institution being placed into conservatorship or receivership; and
(4) A System institution or IRP making a request pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section shall demonstrate that it is not aware of any information, evidence, documents or other materials which would indicate that there is a reasonable basis to believe, at the time such payment is proposed to be made, that:
(i) The IRP has committed any fraudulent act or omission, breach of trust or fiduciary duty, or insider abuse with regard to the System institution that has had or is likely to have a material adverse effect on the institution;
(ii) The IRP is substantially responsible for the insolvency of, the appointment of a conservator or receiver for, or the troubled condition, as defined by applicable regulations concerning the System institution;
(iii) The IRP has materially violated any applicable Federal or state law or regulation that has had or is likely to have a material effect on the System institution; and
(iv) The IRP has violated or conspired to violate section 215, 657, 1006, 1014, or 1344 of title 18 of the United States Code or section 1341 or 1343 of such title affecting a Farm Credit System institution.
(b) In making a determination under paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section the FCA and the Corporation may consider:
(1) Whether, and to what degree, the IRP was in a position of managerial or fiduciary responsibility;
(2) The length of time the IRP was affiliated with the System institution, and the degree to which the proposed payment represents reasonable compensation earned over the period of employment and reasonable payment for services rendered; and
(3) Any other factors or circumstances which would indicate that the proposed payment would be contrary to the intent of the Act or this part.
§ 1412.6
Permissible indemnification payments.
(a) A System institution may make or agree to make reasonable indemnification payments to an IRP with respect to an administrative proceeding or civil action initiated by the FCA if:
(1) The System institution's board of directors, in good faith, determines in writing after due investigation and consideration that the IRP acted in good faith and in a manner he/she believed to be in the best interests of the institution;
(2) The System institution's board of directors, in good faith, determines in writing after due investigation and consideration that the payment of such expenses will not materially adversely affect the institution's safety and soundness;
(3) The indemnification payments do not constitute prohibited indemnification payments as that term is defined in § 1412.2(l); and
(4) The IRP agrees in writing to reimburse the System institution, to the extent not covered by payments from insurance or bonds purchased pursuant to § 1412.2(l)(2), for that portion of the advanced indemnification payments which subsequently become prohibited indemnification payments, as defined herein.
(b) An IRP requesting indemnification payments shall not participate in any way in the board's discussion and approval of such payments;
provided, however,
that such IRP may present his/her request to the board and respond to any inquiries from the board concerning his/her involvement in the circumstances giving rise to the administrative proceeding or civil action.
(c) In the event that a majority of the members of the board of directors are named as respondents in an administrative proceeding or civil action and request indemnification, the remaining members of the board may authorize independent legal counsel to review the indemnification request and provide the remaining members of the board with a written opinion of counsel as to whether the conditions delineated in
paragraph (a) of this section have been met. If independent legal counsel opines that said conditions have been met, the remaining members of the board of directors may rely on such opinion in authorizing the requested indemnification.
(d) In the event that all of the members of the board of directors are named as respondents in an administrative proceeding or civil action and request indemnification, the board shall authorize independent legal counsel to review the indemnification request and provide the board with a written opinion of counsel as to whether the conditions delineated in paragraph (a) of this section have been met. If independent legal counsel opines that said conditions have been met, the board of directors may rely on such opinion in authorizing the requested indemnification.
§ 1412.7
Filing instructions.
Requests to make excess nondiscriminatory severance plan payments and permitted golden parachute payments shall be submitted in writing to the FCA and the Corporation. The request shall be in letter form and shall contain all relevant factual information as well as the reasons why such approval should be granted.
§ 1412.8
Application in the event of receivership.
The provisions of this part or any consent or approval granted under the provisions of this part by the Corporation (in its corporate capacity), shall not in any way bind any receiver of a failed System institution. Any consent or approval granted under the provisions of this part by the Corporation or the FCA shall not in any way obligate such agency or receiver to pay any claim or obligation pursuant to any golden parachute, severance, indemnification or other agreement. Claims for employee welfare benefits or other benefits which are contingent, even if otherwise vested, when the Corporation is appointed as receiver for any System institution, including any contingency for termination of employment, are not provable claims or actual, direct compensatory damage claims against such receiver. Nothing in this part may be construed to permit the payment of salary or any liability or legal expense of any IRP contrary to 12 U.S.C. 2277a-10b(d).
PARTS 1413-1499 [RESERVED]
12 CFR Ch. XV (1-1-25 Edition)
Department of the Treasury

# CHAPTER XV—DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Part
Page
1500
Merchant banking investments
721
1501
Financial subsidiaries
728
1502-1503
[Reserved]
1505-1507
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER B—RESOLUTION FUNDING CORPORATION
1510
Resolution Funding Corporation operations
731
1511
Book-entry procedure
734
1512-1599
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Pt. 1500

# PART 1500—MERCHANT BANKING INVESTMENTS
Sec.
1500.1
What type of investments are permitted by this part, and under what conditions may they be made?
1500.2
What are the limitations on managing or operating a portfolio company held as a merchant banking investment?
1500.3
What are the holding periods permitted for merchant banking investments?
1500.4
How are investments in private equity funds treated under this part?
1500.5
What aggregate thresholds apply to merchant banking investments?
1500.6
What risk management, record keeping and reporting policies are required to make merchant banking investments?
1500.7
How do the statutory cross marketing and sections 23A and B limitations apply to merchant banking investments?
1500.8
Definitions.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1843(k).

# Source:
Reg. Y, 66 FR 8489, Jan. 31, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1500.1
What type of investments are permitted by this part, and under what conditions may they be made?
(a)
What types of investments are permitted by this part?
Section 4(k)(4)(H) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(H)) and this part authorize a financial holding company, directly or indirectly and as principal or on behalf of one or more persons, to acquire or control any amount of shares, assets or ownership interests of a company or other entity that is engaged in any activity not otherwise authorized for the financial holding company under section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act. For purposes of this part, shares, assets or ownership interests acquired or controlled under section 4(k)(4)(H) and this part are referred to as “merchant banking investments.” A financial holding company may not directly or indirectly acquire or control any merchant banking investment except in compliance with the requirements of this part.
(b)
Must the investment be a bona fide merchant banking investment?
The acquisition or control of shares, assets or ownership interests under this part is not permitted unless it is part of a bona fide underwriting or merchant or investment banking activity.
(c)
What types of ownership interests may be acquired?
Shares, assets or ownership interests of a company or other entity include any debt or equity security, warrant, option, partnership interest, trust certificate or other instrument representing an ownership interest in the company or entity, whether voting or nonvoting.
(d)
Where in a financial holding company may merchant banking investments be made?
A financial holding company and any subsidiary (other than a depository institution or subsidiary of a depository institution) may acquire or control merchant banking investments. A financial holding company and its subsidiaries may not acquire or control merchant banking investments on behalf of a depository institution or subsidiary of a depository institution.
(e)
May assets other than shares be held directly?
A financial holding company may not under this part acquire or control assets, other than debt or equity securities or other ownership interests in a company, unless:
(1) The assets are held by or promptly transferred to a portfolio company;
(2) The portfolio company maintains policies, books and records, accounts, and other indicia of corporate, partnership or limited liability organization and operation that are separate from the financial holding company and limit the legal liability of the financial holding company for obligations of the portfolio company; and
(3) The portfolio company has management that is separate from the financial holding company to the extent required by § 1500.2.
(f)
What type of affiliate is required for a financial holding company to make merchant banking investments?
A financial holding company may not acquire or control merchant banking investments under this part unless the financial holding company qualifies under at least one of the following paragraphs:
(1)
Securities affiliate.
The financial holding company is or has an affiliate that is registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c, 78o, 78o-4) as:
(i) A broker or dealer; or
(ii) A municipal securities dealer, including a separately identifiable department or division of a bank that is registered as a municipal securities dealer.
(2)
Insurance affiliate with an investment adviser affiliate.
The financial holding company controls:
(i) An insurance company that is predominantly engaged in underwriting life, accident and health, or property and casualty insurance (other than credit-related insurance), or providing and issuing annuities; and
(ii) A company that:
(A) Is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.
); and
(B) Provides investment advice to an insurance company.
§ 1500.2
What are the limitations on managing or operating a portfolio company held as a merchant banking investment?
(a)
May a financial holding company routinely manage or operate a portfolio company?
Except as permitted in paragraph (e) of this section, a financial holding company may not routinely manage or operate any portfolio company.
(b)
When does a financial holding company routinely manage or operate a company?
—(1)
Examples of routine management or operation
—(i)
Executive officer interlocks at the portfolio company.
A financial holding company routinely manages or operates a portfolio company if any director, officer or employee of the financial holding company serves as or has the responsibilities of an executive officer of the portfolio company.
(ii)
Interlocks by executive officers of the financial holding company
—(A)
Prohibition.
A financial holding company routinely manages or operates a portfolio company if any executive officer of the financial holding company serves as or has the responsibilities of an officer or employee of the portfolio company.
(B)
Definition.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, the term “financial holding company” includes the financial holding company and only the following subsidiaries of the financial holding company:
(
1
) A securities broker or dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(
2
) A depository institution;
(
3
) An affiliate that engages in merchant banking activities under this part or insurance company investment activities under section 4(k)(4)(I) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(I));
(
4
) A small business investment company (as defined in section 302(b) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 682(b)) controlled by the financial holding company or by any depository institution controlled by the financial holding company; and
(
5
) Any other affiliate that engages in significant equity investment activities that are subject to a special capital charge under the capital adequacy rules or guidelines of the Board.
(iii)
Covenants regarding ordinary course of business.
A financial holding company routinely manages or operates a portfolio company if any covenant or other contractual arrangement exists between the financial holding company and the portfolio company that would restrict the portfolio company's ability to make routine business decisions, such as entering into transactions in the ordinary course of business or hiring officers or employees other than executive officers.
(2)
Presumptions of routine management or operation.
A financial holding company is presumed to routinely manage or operate a portfolio company if:
(i) Any director, officer, or employee of the financial holding company serves as or has the responsibilities of an officer (other than an executive officer) or employee of the portfolio company; or
(ii) Any officer or employee of the portfolio company is supervised by any director, officer, or employee of the financial holding company (other than
in that individual's capacity as a director of the portfolio company).
(c)
How may a financial holding company rebut a presumption that it is routinely managing or operating a portfolio company?
A financial holding company may rebut a presumption that it is routinely managing or operating a portfolio company under paragraph (b)(2) of this section by presenting information to the Board demonstrating to the Board's satisfaction that the financial holding company is not routinely managing or operating the portfolio company.
(d)
What arrangements do not involve routinely managing or operating a portfolio company?
—(1)
Director representation at portfolio companies.
A financial holding company may select any or all of the directors of a portfolio company or have one or more of its directors, officers, or employees serve as directors of a portfolio company if:
(i) The portfolio company employs officers and employees responsible for routinely managing and operating the company; and
(ii) The financial holding company does not routinely manage or operate the portfolio company, except as permitted in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2)
Covenants or other provisions regarding extraordinary events.
A financial holding company may, by virtue of covenants or other written agreements with a portfolio company, restrict the ability of the portfolio company, or require the portfolio company to consult with or obtain the approval of the financial holding company, to take actions outside of the ordinary course of the business of the portfolio company. Examples of the types of actions that may be subject to these types of covenants or agreements include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) The acquisition of significant assets or control of another company by the portfolio company or any of its subsidiaries;
(ii) Removal or selection of an independent accountant or auditor or investment banker by the portfolio company;
(iii) Significant changes to the business plan or accounting methods or policies of the portfolio company;
(iv) Removal or replacement of any or all of the executive officers of the portfolio company;
(v) The redemption, authorization or issuance of any equity or debt securities (including options, warrants or convertible shares) of the portfolio company or any borrowing by the portfolio company outside of the ordinary course of business;
(vi) The amendment of the articles of incorporation or by-laws (or similar governing documents) of the portfolio company; and
(vii) The sale, merger, consolidation, spin-off, recapitalization, liquidation, dissolution or sale of substantially all of the assets of the portfolio company or any of its significant subsidiaries.
(3)
Providing advisory and underwriting services to, and having consultations with, a portfolio company.
A financial holding company may:
(i) Provide financial, investment and management consulting advice to a portfolio company in a manner consistent with and subject to any restrictions on such activities contained in § 225.28(b)(6) or § 225.86(b)(1) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.28(b)(6) and 225.86(b)(1));
(ii) Provide assistance to a portfolio company in connection with the underwriting or private placement of its securities, including acting as the underwriter or placement agent for such securities; and
(iii) Meet with the officers or employees of a portfolio company to monitor or provide advice with respect to the portfolio company's performance or activities.
(e)
When may a financial holding company routinely manage or operate a portfolio company?
—(1)
Special circumstances required.
A financial holding company may routinely manage or operate a portfolio company only when intervention by the financial holding company is necessary or required to obtain a reasonable return on the financial holding company's investment in the portfolio company upon resale or other disposition of the investment, such as to avoid or address a significant operating loss or in connection with a loss of senior management at the portfolio company.
(2)
Duration Limited.
A financial holding company may routinely manage or operate a portfolio company only for the period of time as may be necessary to address the cause of the financial holding company's involvement, to obtain suitable alternative management arrangements, to dispose of the investment, or to otherwise obtain a reasonable return upon the resale or disposition of the investment.
(3)
Notice required for extended involvement.
A financial holding company may not routinely manage or operate a portfolio company for a period greater than nine months without prior written notice to the Board.
(4)
Documentation required.
A financial holding company must maintain and make available to the Board upon request a written record describing its involvement in routinely managing or operating a portfolio company.
(f)
May a depository institution or its subsidiary routinely manage or operate a portfolio company?
—(1)
In general.
A depository institution and a subsidiary of a depository institution may not routinely manage or operate a portfolio company in which an affiliated company owns or controls an interest under this part.
(2)
Definition applying provisions governing routine management or operation.
For purposes of this section other than paragraph (e) and for purposes of § 1500.4(d), a financial holding company includes a depository institution controlled by the financial holding company and a subsidiary of such a depository institution.
(3)
Exception for certain subsidiaries of depository institutions.
For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, a financial holding company includes a financial subsidiary held in accordance with section 5136A of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24a) or section 46 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831w), and a subsidiary that is a small business investment company and that is held in accordance with the Small Business Investment Act (15 U.S.C. 661
et seq.
), and such a subsidiary may, in accordance with the limitations set forth in this section, routinely manage or operate a portfolio company in which an affiliated company owns or controls an interest under this part.
§ 1500.3
What are the holding periods permitted for merchant banking investments?
(a)
Must investments be made for resale?
A financial holding company may own or control shares, assets and ownership interests pursuant to this part only for a period of time to enable the sale or disposition thereof on a reasonable basis consistent with the financial viability of the financial holding company's merchant banking investment activities.
(b)
What period of time is generally permitted for holding merchant banking investments?
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in this section or § 1500.4, a financial holding company may not, directly or indirectly, own, control or hold any share, asset or ownership interest pursuant to this part for a period that exceeds 10 years.
(2)
Ownership interests acquired from or transferred to companies held under this part.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, shares, assets or ownership interests—
(i) Acquired by a financial holding company from a company in which the financial holding company held an interest under this part will be considered to have been acquired by the financial holding company on the date that the share, asset or ownership interest was acquired by the company; and
(ii) Acquired by a company from a financial holding company will be considered to have been acquired by the company on the date that the share, asset or ownership interest was acquired by the financial holding company if—
(A) The financial holding company held the share, asset, or ownership interest under this part; and
(B) The financial holding company holds an interest in the acquiring company under this part.
(3)
Interests previously held by a financial holding company under limited authority.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, any shares, assets, or ownership interests previously owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by a financial holding company under any other provision of the Federal banking laws that imposes a limited holding period will if acquired under this part be
considered to have been acquired by the financial holding company under this part on the date the financial holding company first acquired ownership or control of the shares, assets or ownership interests under such other provision of law. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3), a financial holding company includes a depository institution controlled by the financial holding company and any subsidiary of such a depository institution.
(4)
Approval required to hold interests held in excess of time limit.
A financial holding company may seek Board approval to own, control or hold shares, assets or ownership interests of a company under this part for a period that exceeds the period specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. A request for approval must:
(i) Be submitted to the Board at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the applicable time period;
(ii) Provide the reasons for the request, including information that addresses the factors in paragraph (b)(5) of this section; and
(iii) Explain the financial holding company's plan for divesting the shares, assets or ownership interests.
(5)
Factors governing Board determinations.
In reviewing any proposal under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the Board may consider all the facts and circumstances related to the investment, including:
(i) The cost to the financial holding company of disposing of the investment within the applicable period;
(ii) The total exposure of the financial holding company to the company and the risks that disposing of the investment may pose to the financial holding company;
(iii) Market conditions;
(iv) The nature of the portfolio company's business;
(v) The extent and history of involvement by the financial holding company in the management and operations of the company; and
(vi) The average holding period of the financial holding company's merchant banking investments.
(6)
Restrictions applicable to investments held beyond time period.
A financial holding company that directly or indirectly owns, controls or holds any share, asset or ownership interest of a company under this part for a total period that exceeds the period specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must—
(i) For purposes of determining the financial holding company's regulatory capital, apply to the financial holding company's adjusted carrying value of such shares, assets, or ownership interests a capital charge determined by the Board that must be:
(A) Higher than the maximum marginal Tier 1 capital charge applicable under the Board's capital adequacy rules or guidelines (
see
12 CFR 225 appendix A) to merchant banking investments held by that financial holding company; and
(B) In no event less than 25 percent of the adjusted carrying value of the investment; and
(ii) Abide by any other restrictions that the Board may impose in connection with granting approval under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
§ 1500.4
How are investments in private equity funds treated under this part?
(a)
What is a private equity fund?
For purposes of this part, a “private equity fund” is any company that:
(1) Is formed for the purpose of and is engaged exclusively in the business of investing in shares, assets, and ownership interests of financial and nonfinancial companies for resale or other disposition;
(2) Is not an operating company;
(3) No more than 25 percent of the total equity of which is held, owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the financial holding company and its directors, officers, employees and principal shareholders;
(4) Has a maximum term of not more than 15 years; and
(5) Is not formed or operated for the purpose of making investments inconsistent with the authority granted under section 4(k)(4)(H) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(H)) or evading the limitations governing merchant banking investments contained in this part.
(b)
What form may a private equity fund take?
A private equity fund may be a corporation, partnership, limited
liability company or other type of company that issues ownership interests in any form.
(c)
What is the holding period permitted for interests in private equity funds?
—(1)
In general.
A financial holding company may own, control or hold any interest in a private equity fund under this part and any interest in a portfolio company that is owned or controlled by a private equity fund in which the financial holding company owns or controls any interest under this part for the duration of the fund, up to a maximum of 15 years.
(2)
Request to hold interest for longer period.
A financial holding company may seek Board approval to own, control or hold an interest in or held through a private equity fund for a period longer than the duration of the fund in accordance with § 1500.3(b) of this part.
(3)
Application of rules.
The rules described in § 1500.3(b)(2) and (3) governing holding periods of interests acquired, transferred or previously held by a financial holding company apply to interests in, held through, or acquired from a private equity fund.
(d)
How do the restrictions on routine management and operation apply to private equity funds and investments held through a private equity fund?
—(1) Portfolio companies held through a private equity fund. A financial holding company may not routinely manage or operate a portfolio company that is owned or controlled by a private equity fund in which the financial holding company owns or controls any interest under this part, except as permitted under § 1500.2(e).
(2)
Private equity funds controlled by a financial holding company.
A private equity fund that is controlled by a financial holding company may not routinely manage or operate a portfolio company, except as permitted under § 1500.2(e).
(3)
Private equity funds that are not controlled by a financial holding company.
A private equity fund may routinely manage or operate a portfolio company so long as no financial holding company controls the private equity fund or as permitted under § 1500.2(e).
(4)
When does a financial holding company control a private equity fund?
A financial holding company controls a private equity fund for purposes of this part if the financial holding company, including any director, officer, employee or principal shareholder of the financial holding company:
(i) Serves as a general partner, managing member, or trustee of the private equity fund (or serves in a similar role with respect to the private equity fund);
(ii) Owns or controls 25 percent or more of any class of voting shares or similar interests in the private equity fund;
(iii) In any manner selects, controls or constitutes a majority of the directors, trustees or management of the private equity fund; or
(iv) Owns or controls more than 5 percent of any class of voting shares or similar interests in the private equity fund and is the investment adviser to the fund.
§ 1500.5
What aggregate thresholds apply to merchant banking investments?
(a)
In general.
A financial holding company may not, without Board approval, directly or indirectly acquire any additional shares, assets or ownership interests under this part or make any additional capital contribution to any company the shares, assets or ownership interests of which are held by the financial holding company under this part if the aggregate carrying value of all merchant banking investments held by the financial holding company under this part exceeds:
(1) 30 percent of the Tier 1 capital of the financial holding company; or
(2) After excluding interests in private equity funds, 20 percent of the Tier 1 capital of the financial holding company
(b)
How do these thresholds apply to a private equity fund?
Paragraph (a) of this section applies to the interest acquired or controlled by the financial holding company under this part in a private equity fund. Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any interest in a company held by a private equity fund or to any interest held by
a person that is not affiliated with the financial holding company.
(c)
How long do these thresholds remain in effect?
This § 1500.5 shall cease to be effective on the date that a final rule issued by the Board that specifically addresses the appropriate regulatory capital treatment of merchant banking investments becomes effective.
§ 1500.6
What risk management, record keeping and reporting policies are required to make merchant banking investments?
(a)
What internal controls and records are necessary?
—(1)
General.
A financial holding company, including a private equity fund controlled by a financial holding company, that makes investments under this part must establish and maintain policies, procedures, records and systems reasonably designed to conduct, monitor and manage such investment activities and the risks associated with such investment activities in a safe and sound manner, including policies, procedures, records and systems reasonably designed to:
(i) Monitor and assess the carrying value, market value and performance of each investment and the aggregate portfolio;
(ii) Identify and manage the market, credit, concentration and other risks associated with such investments;
(iii) Identify, monitor and assess the terms, amounts and risks arising from transactions and relationships (including contingent fees or contingent interests) with each company in which the financial holding company holds an interest under this part;
(iv) Ensure the maintenance of corporate separateness between the financial holding company and each company in which the financial holding company holds an interest under this part and protect the financial holding company and its depository institution subsidiaries from legal liability for the operations conducted and financial obligations of each such company; and
(v) Ensure compliance with this part.
(2)
Availability of records.
A financial holding company must make the policies, procedures and records required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section available to the Board or the appropriate Reserve Bank upon request.
(b) Certain additional recordkeeping and reporting requirements for merchant banking investments are set forth in the Board's Regulation Y, 12 CFR 225.175.
§ 1500.7
How do the statutory cross marketing and sections 23A and B limitations apply to merchant banking investments?
Certain cross-marketing limitations and limitations under sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c, 371c-1) applicable to merchant banking investments are set forth in the Board's Regulation Y, 12 CFR 225.176.
§ 1500.8
Definitions.
(a)
What do references to a financial holding company include?
—(1) Except as otherwise expressly provided, the term “financial holding company” as used in this part means the financial holding company and all of its subsidiaries, including a private equity fund or other fund controlled by the financial holding company.
(2) Except as otherwise expressly provided, the term “financial holding company” does not include a depository institution or subsidiary of a depository institution or any portfolio company controlled directly or indirectly by the financial holding company.
(b)
What do references to a depository institution include?
For purposes of this part, the term “depository institution” includes a U.S. branch or agency of a foreign bank.
(c)
What is a portfolio company?
A portfolio company is any company or entity:
(1) That is engaged in any activity not authorized for the financial holding company under section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843); and
(2) Any shares, assets or ownership interests of which are held, owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the financial holding company pursuant to this part, including through a private equity fund that the financial holding company controls.
(d)
Who are the executive officers of a company?
—(1) An executive officer of a
company is any person who participates or has the authority to participate (other than in the capacity as a director) in major policymaking functions of the company, whether or not the officer has an official title, the title designates the officer as an assistant, or the officer serves without salary or other compensation.
(2) The term “executive officer” does not include—
(i) Any person, including a person with an official title, who may exercise a certain measure of discretion in the performance of his duties, including the discretion to make decisions in the ordinary course of the company's business, but who does not participate in the determination of major policies of the company and whose decisions are limited by policy standards fixed by senior management of the company; or
(ii) Any person who is excluded from participating (other than in the capacity of a director) in major policymaking functions of the company by resolution of the board of directors or by the bylaws of the company and who does not in fact participate in such policymaking functions.
(e)
What is the Board?
The Board means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(f)
How are other terms that are used in this part defined?
Unless otherwise defined in this part, all terms used have the meanings given such terms in the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR Part 225).
Pt. 1501

# PART 1501—FINANCIAL SUBSIDIARIES
Sec.
1501.1
How do you request the Secretary to determine that an activity is financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity?
1501.2
What activities has the Secretary determined to be financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity?
1501.3
Comparable ratings requirement for national banks among the second 50 largest insured banks.

# Authority:
Section 5136A of the Revised Statutes of the United States (12 U.S.C. 24a).

# Source:
65 FR 14821, Mar. 20, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1501.1
How do you request the Secretary to determine that an activity is financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity?
(a)
Requests regarding activities that may be financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity.
A national bank or other interested party may request the Secretary to determine that an activity not defined to be financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity in Section 4(k)(4) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)), is financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity.
(b)
What information must the request contain?
A request submitted under this section must be in writing and must:
(1) Identify and define the activity for which the determination is sought, specifically describing what the activity would involve and how the activity would be conducted;
(2) Explain in detail why the activity should be considered financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity; and
(3) Provide information supporting the requested determination and any other information required by the Secretary concerning the proposed activity.
(c)
What factors will the Secretary take into account in making his determination?
(1) Section 121 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) (Public Law 106-102, 113 Stat. 1373) requires the Secretary to take into account the following factors in making his determination:
(i) The purposes of section 5136A of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24a) and the GLBA;
(ii) Changes or reasonably expected changes in the marketplace in which banks compete;
(iii) Changes or reasonably expected changes in the technology for delivering financial services; and
(iv) Whether the activity is necessary or appropriate to allow a bank and the subsidiaries of a bank to—
(A) Compete effectively with any company seeking to provide financial services in the United States;
(B) Efficiently deliver information and services that are financial in nature through the use of technological
means, including any application necessary to protect the security or efficacy of systems for the transmission of data or financial transactions; and
(C) Offer customers any available or emerging technological means for using financial services or for the document imaging of data.
(2) Because the Secretary is required to consider the factors in paragraph (c)(1) of this section in making his determination, any request should address the factors in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The Secretary may also consider other relevant factors.
(d)
What action will the Secretary take after receiving a request?
—(1)
Consultation with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board).
Upon receiving the request, the Secretary will send a copy to the Board and consult with the Board in accordance with section 5136A(b)(1)(B)(i) of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 5136A(b)(1)(B)(i)).
(2)
Public notice.
The Secretary may, as appropriate and after consultation with the Board, publish a description of the proposal in the
Federal Register
with a request for public comment.
(e)
How and when will the Secretary act on a request?
In the case of each request, the Secretary:
(1) Will inform the requester of the Secretary's final determination regarding the requested activity; and
(2) Will endeavor to inform the requester of the Secretary's final determination within 60 days of completion of both the consultative process described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and the public comment period, if any.
(f)
What must a national bank do in order for a financial subsidiary to engage in activities that the Secretary has determined are financial in nature or incidental to financial activities?
Once the Secretary determines that an activity is financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity (either in accordance with this section or after evaluation of a proposal raised by the Board under section 5136A(b)(1)(B)(ii) of the Revised Statutes), a financial subsidiary may engage in the activity subject to the requirements of 12 CFR part 5 and in accordance with any terms or conditions established by the Secretary in connection with authorizing the activity.
§ 1501.2
What activities has the Secretary determined to be financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity?
(a)
Activities permitted under section 5136A(b)(3) of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24a(b)(3)).
(1) The following types of activities are financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity when conducted pursuant to a determination by the Secretary under paragraph (a)(2) of this section:
(i) Lending, exchanging, transferring, investing for others, or safeguarding financial assets other than money or securities;
(ii) Providing any device or other instrumentality for transferring money or other financial assets; and
(iii) Arranging, effecting, or facilitating financial transactions for the account of third parties.
(2)
Review of specific activities—
(i)
Is a specific request required?
A financial subsidiary that wishes to engage on the basis of paragraph (a)(1) of this section in an activity that is not otherwise permissible for a financial subsidiary must obtain a determination from the Secretary that the activity is permitted under paragraph (a)(1).
(ii)
Consultation with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
After receiving a request under this section, the Secretary will provide the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) with a copy of the request and consult with the Board in accordance with section 5136A(b)(1)(B)(i) of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24a(b)(1)(B)(i)).
(iii)
Secretary action on requests.
After consultation with the Board, the Secretary will promptly make a written determination regarding whether the specific activity described in the request is included in an activity category listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and is therefore either financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity.
(3)
What factors will the Secretary consider?
In evaluating a request made under this section, the Secretary will take into account the factors listed in
section 5136A(b)(2) of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24a(b)(2)) that the Secretary must consider when determining whether an activity is financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity.
(4)
What information must the request contain?
Any request by financial subsidiary under this section must be in writing and must:
(i) Identify and define the activity for which the determination is sought, specifically describing what the activity would involve and how the activity would be conducted; and
(ii) Provide information supporting the requested determination, including information regarding how the proposed activity falls into one of the categories listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and any other information required by the Secretary concerning the proposed activity.
(b) [Reserved]
[66 FR 260, Jan. 3, 2001]
§ 1501.3
Comparable ratings requirement for national banks among the second 50 largest insured banks.
(a)
Scope and purpose.
Section 5136A of the Revised Statutes permits a national bank that is within the second 50 largest insured banks to own or control a financial subsidiary only if, among other requirements, the bank satisfies the eligible debt requirement set forth in section 5136A or an alternative criteria jointly established by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. This section establishes the alternative criteria that a national bank among the second 50 largest insured banks may meet, which criteria is comparable to and consistent with the purposes of the eligible debt requirement established by section 5136A.
(b)
Alternative criteria.
A national bank satisfies the alternative criteria referenced in Section 5136A(a)(2)(E) of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24a) and 12 CFR 5.39(g)(3) if the bank has a current long-term issuer credit rating from at least one nationally recognized statistical rating organization that is within the three highest investment grade rating categories used by the organization.
(c)
Definition of long-term issuer credit rating.
A “long-term issuer credit rating” is a written opinion issued by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization of the bank's overall capacity and willingness to pay on a timely basis its unsecured, dollar-denominated financial obligations maturing in not less than one year.
[66 FR 8750, Feb. 2, 2001]
PARTS 1502-1503 [RESERVED]
PARTS 1505-1507 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER B—RESOLUTION FUNDING CORPORATION
Pt. 1510

# PART 1510—RESOLUTION FUNDING CORPORATION OPERATIONS
Sec.
1510.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
1510.2
Definitions.
1510.3
How does the Funding Corporation pay administrative expenses?
1510.4
Who may act as the depositary and fiscal agent for the Funding Corporation?
1510.5
How does the Funding Corporation make interest payments on its obligations?
1510.6
What must the Funding Corporation do with surplus funds?
1510.7
What are the Funding Corporation's reporting requirements?
1510.8
What are the audit requirements for the Funding Corporation?

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1441b; Sec. 14(d), Pub. L. 105-216, 112 Stat. 910.

# Source:
65 FR 12069, Mar. 8, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1510.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued under the authority of section 14(d) of the Homeowners Protection Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-216, 112 Stat. 910) and section 21B(l) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441b(l)).
(b)
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this part is to provide direction to the Funding Corporation in carrying out its statutory mandate to make interest payments on its outstanding debt obligations. This part also provides direction to the Funding Corporation regarding funding the administrative costs of its operations. This part does not provide direction to the Funding Corporation, however, on activities that the Funding Corporation is authorized to carry out under the Act, but that it previously has completed or is not likely to undertake in the future, such as raising capital and issuing obligations. Although the Funding Corporation continues to have statutory authority to undertake these activities, the circumstances under which it would do so are limited. If such circumstances were to arise, the Secretary has the authority to provide any necessary direction to the Funding Corporation.
(c)
Authority of the Funding Corporation.
The Funding Corporation may exercise all authority granted to it by the Act in accordance with its bylaws, whether or not specifically implemented by regulation, subject to the requirements of this part and such other regulations, orders and directions as the Secretary may prescribe.
§ 1510.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to terms used in this part unless the context requires otherwise:
Act
means the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1421
et seq.
).
Administrative expenses
means costs incurred as necessary to carry out the functions of the Funding Corporation, including custodian fees, but does not include any interest on obligations.
Bank
means a Federal Home Loan Bank established under the authority of the Act.
Custodian fee
means any fee incurred by the Funding Corporation in connection with the transfer of any security to, or the maintenance of any security in, the Funding Corporation Principal Fund and any other expense incurred in connection with the establishment or maintenance of the Funding Corporation Principal Fund.
Directorate
means the Directorate of the Funding Corporation established pursuant to section 21B(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1421b(c)).
FDIC
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation established pursuant to section 1 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811,
et seq.
).
Finance Board
means the Federal Housing Finance Board established pursuant to section 2A(a)(1) of the Act.
FSLIC Resolution Fund
means the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation Resolution Fund established pursuant to section 11A(a)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811,
et seq.
).
Funding Corporation
means the Resolution Funding Corporation established pursuant to section 21B(b) of the Act.
Funding Corporation Principal Fund
means the separate account established under section 21B(g)(2) of the Act.
Interest payment due date
means the date on which the next quarterly interest payments on obligations are due.
Net earnings
means net earnings after deducting expenses relating to section 10(j) of the Act (Affordable Housing Program) and operating expenses, but without reduction for chargeoffs and payments to fund interest payments on obligations.
Obligations
means bonds issued by the Funding Corporation under section 21B(f) of the Act.
RTC
means the Resolution Trust Corporation established pursuant to section 21A(b)(1)(A) of the Act and which terminated on December 31, 1995, pursuant to section 21A(m) of the Act.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury or the designee of the Secretary of the Treasury.
§ 1510.3
How does the Funding Corporation pay administrative expenses?
(a)
The Directorate proposes a budget.
By November 15 of each year, the Directorate must approve and submit to the Secretary a proposed budget for the administrative expenses of the Funding Corporation for the following year.
(b)
The Secretary approves the budget.
The Funding Corporation's budget is subject to the Secretary's prior approval. The proposed budget submitted by the Directorate shall be deemed to be approved by the Secretary unless the Secretary disapproves it within 45 days of the date submitted. The Funding Corporation must transmit a copy of the approved budget to each Bank.
(c)
Budget changes must be approved by the Secretary.
If the Funding Corporation projects or anticipates incurring expenses exceeding its approved budget, the Directorate must submit an amended budget to the Secretary for approval.
(d)
The Funding Corporation collects funds from the Banks to pay its administrative expenses.
At least semiannually, the Funding Corporation must request that each Bank submit within 10 business days of the request payment for a portion of the administrative expenses in the Funding Corporation's budget for the current calendar year. The amount of each Bank's payment must be pro rated according to the percentage of the total outstanding Funding Corporation capital stock owned by the Bank. The Funding Corporation must adjust the amount of each Bank's payment as necessary to reflect differences between aggregate projected and actual administrative expenses incurred during the calendar year and to reflect any changes in estimated aggregate administrative expenses for the coming period. The Funding Corporation must not request payments from the Banks that, in the aggregate, exceed the administrative expenses in the Funding Corporation's approved budget.
§ 1510.4
Who may act as the depositary and fiscal agent for the Funding Corporation?
(a)
In general, the Federal Reserve Banks.
The Funding Corporation must use one or more Federal Reserve Banks as depositaries for or fiscal agents or custodians of the Funding Corporation.
(b)
For administrative accounts, insured depository institutions.
Subject to approval by the Secretary, the Funding Corporation may establish demand deposit accounts at one or more federally insured depository institutions for the management of funds used to pay administrative expenses.
§ 1510.5
How does the Funding Corporation make interest payments on its obligations?
(a)
The Funding Corporation must obtain funds from up to four sources.
The Funding Corporation must pay the interest due on its obligations with funds it obtains from the following sources and in the following order:
(1) Earnings on assets of the Funding Corporation not invested in the Funding Corporation Principal Fund.
(2) To the extent funds identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are insufficient, the Funding Corporation must obtain from each Bank in each calendar year payments totaling 20 percent of the net earnings of the Bank. The Funding Corporation must not obtain funds from a Bank under this paragraph after the date upon which the term of the Bank's payment obligation has ended, as determined by the Finance Board pursuant to section 21B(f)(2)(C)(iii) of the Act.
(3) To the extent funds identified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are insufficient, the Funding Corporation must obtain from the FSLIC Resolution Fund amounts available from any net proceeds from the sale of assets received from the RTC by the FSLIC Resolution Fund.
(4) To the extent that funds from the sources identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section are insufficient, the Funding Corporation must obtain from the Secretary the additional amount due.
(b)
The Funding Corporation must obtain projections of funds availability from the Banks and the FSLIC Resolution Fund.
Not later than March 15, June 15, September 15, and December 15 of each year:
(1) The Funding Corporation must obtain from each Bank a statement signed by an officer of such Bank containing sufficient information on the Banks net earnings to enable the Funding Corporation to make quarterly projections of funds available from the Bank for the current quarter and the next three quarters; and
(2) The Funding Corporation must obtain from an authorized representative of the FSLIC Resolution Fund projections of the amount of funds available in the current quarter and the next three quarters from the net proceeds from the sale of received from the RTC.
(c)
The Funding Corporation must report funding projections to the Secretary.
Not later than March 20, June 20, September 20, and December 20 of each year, the Funding Corporation must submit to the Secretary a report containing:
(1) The aggregate amounts of each of the next four quarterly interest payments due on obligations; and
(2) The amounts projected to be available to fund such payments from:
(i) Earnings on assets of the Funding Corporation not invested in the Funding Corporation Principal Fund;
(ii) Payments from the Banks; and
(iii) Funds transferred from the FSLIC Resolution Fund.
(d)
The Funding Corporation must request funds from the Banks, the FSLIC Resolution Fund, and the Secretary
—(1)
Requests to the Banks.
Not less than four business days prior to the interest payment due date, the Funding Corporation must obtain from each Bank a report of its actual net earnings for the prior quarter and notify each Bank in writing of the interest payment due date and the amount of the payment due from the Bank. To the extent funds identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are insufficient to pay the interest due, the amount of each Bank's payment must be 20 percent of the Bank's actual quarterly net earnings, taking into account any adjustment to the Bank's earnings for any previous quarters. The Funding Corporation must request the Bank to provide payment through wiring immediately available and finally collected funds to the Funding Corporation no later than the interest payment due date.
(2)
Request to the FSLIC Resolution Fund.
On the day the Funding Corporation notifies the Banks of the payments due from them under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the Funding Corporation must:
(i) Notify the FSLIC Resolution Fund in writing of:
(A) The interest payment due date;
(B) The aggregate amount of the quarterly interest payment due on that date; and
(C) The amount of the quarterly interest payment that will be funded by earnings on assets of the Funding Corporation not invested in the Funding Corporation Principal Fund and payments due from the Banks; and
(ii) Request that the FSLIC Resolution Fund transfer to the Funding Corporation by noon on the third business day prior to the interest payment due date any funds available from the net proceeds from the sale of assets received from the RTC, to the extent funds identified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are insufficient to pay the interest due.
(3)
Request to the Secretary.
No less than three business days prior to the interest payment due date, the Funding Corporation must request payment from the Secretary by providing a certification, in a form satisfactory to the Secretary, stating the total amounts of the quarterly interest payment to be paid by the Funding Corporation from sources other than the Secretary and
the amounts necessary to make up the deficiency. Any amount paid by the Secretary becomes a liability of the Funding Corporation to be repaid to the Secretary upon the dissolution of the Funding Corporation, to the extent of its remaining assets.
[65 FR 12069, Mar. 8, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 47071, Sept. 11, 2001]
§ 1510.6
What must the Funding Corporation do with surplus funds?
If the Funding Corporation has funds that are not needed for current interest payments on obligations, it must invest the funds in obligations of the United States issued by the Secretary, in accordance with an investment policy approved by the Secretary.
§ 1510.7
What are the Funding Corporation's reporting requirements?
In addition to the budget submission required by § 1510.3 and the funding projection reports required by § 1510.5, the Funding Corporation must prepare such reports as the Secretary may require, including reports necessary to assist the Secretary in making the annual report to Congress and the President on the Funding Corporation under section 21B(i) of the Act.
§ 1510.8
What are the audit requirements for the Funding Corporation?
The Funding Corporation must obtain an audit of its books and records by an independent external auditor at least annually.
Pt. 1511

# PART 1511—BOOK-ENTRY PROCEDURE
Sec.
1511.0
Applicability.
1511.1
Definition of terms.
1511.2
Law governing rights and obligations of the Funding Corporation and Federal Reserve Banks; rights of any Person against the Funding Corporation and the Federal Reserve Banks.
1511.3
Law governing other interests.
1511.4
Creation of Participant's Security Entitlement; security interests.
1511.5
Obligations of Funding Corporation; no adverse claims.
1511.6
Authority of Federal Reserve Banks.
1511.7
Liability of the Funding Corporation and Federal Reserve Banks.
1511.8
Notice of attachment.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1441b.

# Source:
61 FR 66875, Dec. 19, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1511.0
Applicability.
The regulations in this part apply to Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities.
§ 1511.1
Definitions of terms.
In this part, unless the context indicates otherwise:
Act
means the Federal Home Loan Bank Act as amended (12 U.S.C. 1421
et seq.
).
Adverse Claim
means a claim that a claimant has a property interest in a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security and that it is a violation of the rights of the claimant for another Person to hold, transfer, or deal with the Book-entry Funding Corporation Security.
Book-entry Funding Corporation Security
means a Funding Corporation Security in book-entry form that is issued or maintained in the Book-entry System. Solely for the purposes of this Part, it also means the separate interest and principal components of a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security if such security has been divided into such components as authorized by the Securities Documentation and the components are maintained separately on the books of one or more Federal Reserve Banks.
Book-entry System
means the automated book-entry system operated by the Federal Reserve Banks acting as the fiscal agent for the Funding Corporation, on which Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities are issued, recorded, transferred and maintained in book-entry form.
Entitlement Holder
means a Person to whose account an interest in a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security is credited on the records of a Securities Intermediary.
Federal Reserve Bank or Reserve Bank
means a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch.
Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular
means the publication issued by each Federal Reserve Bank that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Reserve Bank maintains
book-entry Securities accounts (including Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities) and transfers book-entry Securities (including Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities).
Funding Corporation
means the Resolution Funding Corporation established pursuant to section 21B(b) of the Act.
Funding Corporation Security
or
Security
means a Funding Corporation bond, note, debenture and similar obligations issued under section 21B of the Act.
Funds Account
means a reserve and/or clearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank to which debits or credits are posted for transfers against payment, book-entry securities transaction fees, or principal and interest payments.
Participant
means a Person that maintains a Participant's Securities Account with a Federal Reserve Bank.
Participant's Securities Account
means an account in the name of a Participant at a Federal Reserve Bank to which Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities held for a Participant are or may be credited.
Person
means and includes an individual, corporation, company, governmental entity, association, firm, partnership, trust, estate, representative, and any other similar organization, but does not mean or include the United States, the Funding Corporation, or a Federal Reserve Bank.
Revised Article 8
means Uniform Commercial Code, Revised Article 8, Investment Securities (with Conforming and Miscellaneous Amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 9, and 10) 1994 Official Text. Revised Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code is incorporated by reference in this Part pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR Part 51. Article 8 was adopted by the American Law Institute and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State laws and approved by the American Bar Association on February 14, 1995. Copies of this publication are available from the Executive Office of the American Law Institute, 4025 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, 676 North St. Clair Street, Suite 1700, Chicago, IL 60611. Copies are also available for public inspection at the Department of the Treasury Library, Room 5030, main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington DC 20220, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Securities Documentation
means the applicable offering circular, supplement, or other documents establishing the terms of a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security.
Securities Intermediary
means:
(1) A Person that is registered as a “clearing agency” under the Federal securities laws; a Federal Reserve Bank; any other Person that provides clearance or settlement services with respect to a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security that would require it to register as a clearing agency under the Federal securities laws but for an exclusion or exemption from the registration requirement, if its activities as a clearing corporation, including promulgation of rules, are subject to regulation by a Federal or State governmental authority; or
(2) A Person (other than an individual, unless such individual is registered as a broker or dealer under the federal securities laws) including a bank or broker, that in the ordinary course of its business maintains securities accounts for others and is acting in that capacity.
Security Entitlement
means the rights and property interest of an Entitlement Holder with respect to a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security.
State
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
Transfer message
means an instruction of a Participant to a Federal Reserve Bank to effect a transfer of a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security, as set forth in Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars.
[61 FR 66875, Dec. 19, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§ 1511.2
Law governing rights and obligations of the Funding Corporation and Federal Reserve Banks; rights of any Person against the Funding Corporation and the Federal Reserve Banks.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the following are governed solely by the regulations contained in this part 1511, the Securities Documentation and Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars:
(1) The rights and obligations of the Funding Corporation and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to:
(i) A Book-entry Funding Corporation Security or Security Entitlement; and
(ii) The operation of the Book-entry System as it applies to Funding Corporation Securities; and
(2) The rights of any Person, including a Participant, against the Funding Corporation and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to:
(i) A Book-entry Funding Corporation Security or Security Entitlement; and
(ii) The operation of the Book-entry System as it applies to Funding Corporation Securities.
(b) A security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank from a Participant and that is not recorded on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 1511.4(c)(1), is governed by the law (not including the conflict-of-law rules) of the jurisdiction where the head office of the Federal Reserve Bank maintaining the Participant's Securities Account is located. A security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank from a Person that is not a Participant, and that is not recorded on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 1511.4(c)(1), is governed by the law determined in the manner specified in § 1511.3.
(c) If the jurisdiction specified in the first sentence of paragraph (b) of this section is a State that has not adopted Revised Article 8 (incorporated by reference, see § 1511.1), then the law specified in paragraph (b) shall be the law of that State as though Revised Article 8 had been adopted by that State.
§ 1511.3
Law governing other interests.
(a) To the extent not inconsistent with the regulations in this part, the law (not including the conflict-of-law rules) of a Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction governs:
(1) The acquisition of a Security Entitlement from the Securities Intermediary;
(2) The rights and duties of the Securities Intermediary and Entitlement Holder arising out of a Security Entitlement;
(3) Whether the Securities Intermediary owes any duties to an adverse claimant to a Security Entitlement;
(4) Whether an Adverse Claim can be asserted against a Person who acquires a Security Entitlement from the Securities Intermediary or a Person who purchases a Security Entitlement or interest therein from an Entitlement Holder; and
(5) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection and priority of a security interest in a Security Entitlement.
(b) The following rules determine a “Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction” for purposes of this section:
(1) If an agreement between the Securities Intermediary and its Entitlement Holder specifies that it is governed by the law of a particular jurisdiction, that jurisdiction is the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction.
(2) If an agreement between the Securities Intermediary and its Entitlement Holder does not specify the governing law as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, but expressly specifies that the securities account is maintained at an office in a particular jurisdiction, that jurisdiction is the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction.
(3) If an agreement between the Securities Intermediary and its Entitlement Holder does not specify a jurisdiction as provided in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction is the jurisdiction in which is located the office identified in an account statement as the office serving the Entitlement Holder's account.
(4) If an agreement between the Securities Intermediary and its Entitlement Holder does not specify a jurisdiction as provided in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section and an account statement does not identify an office serving the Entitlement Holder's account as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction is the jurisdiction in which is located the chief executive office of the Securities Intermediary.
(c) Notwithstanding the general rule in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the law (but not the conflict-of-law rules) of the jurisdiction in which the Person creating a security interest is located governs whether and how the security interest may be perfected automatically or by filing a financing statement.
(d) If the jurisdiction specified in paragraph (b) of this section is a State that has not adopted Revised Article 8 (incorporated by reference, see § 1511.1), then the law for the matters specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be the law of that State as though Revised Article 8 had been adopted by that State. For purposes of the application of the matters specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Federal Reserve Bank maintaining the Securities Account is a clearing corporation, and the Participant's interest in a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security is a Security Entitlement.
§ 1511.4
Creation of Participant's Security Entitlement; security interests.
(a) A Participant's Security Entitlement is created when a Federal Reserve Bank indicates by book-entry that a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security has been credited to a Participant's Securities Account.
(b) A security interest in a Security Entitlement of a Participant in favor of the United States to secure deposits of public money, including without limitation deposits to the Treasury tax and loan accounts, or other security interest in favor of the United States that is required by Federal statute, regulation, or agreement, and that is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank is thereby effected and perfected, and has priority over any other interest in the securities. Where a security interest in favor of the United States in a Security Entitlement of a Participant is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank, such Reserve Bank may rely, and is protected in relying, exclusively on the order of an authorized representative of the United States directing the transfer of the security. For purposes of this paragraph, an “authorized representative of the United States” is the official designated in the applicable regulations or agreement to which a Federal Reserve Bank is a party, governing the security interest.
(c)(1) The Funding Corporation and the Federal Reserve Banks have no obligation to agree to act on behalf of any Person or to recognize the interest of any transferee of a security interest or other limited interest in favor of any Person except to the extent of any specific requirement of Federal law or regulation or to the extent set forth in any specific agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the interest of the Participant is recorded. To the extent required by such law or regulation or set forth in an agreement with a Federal Reserve Bank, or the Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular, a security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank, the Funding Corporation, or a Person may be created and perfected by a Federal Reserve Bank marking its books to record the security interest. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a security interest in a Security Entitlement marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank shall have priority over any other interest in the securities.
(2) In addition to the method provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a security interest in a Security Entitlement, including a security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank, may be perfected by any method by which a security interest may be perfected under applicable law as described in § 1511.2(b) or § 1511.3. The perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection and priority of a security interest are governed by such applicable law. A security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank shall be treated as a security interest in favor of a
clearing corporation in all respects under such law, including with respect to the effect of perfection and priority of such security interest. A Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular shall be treated as a rule adopted by a clearing corporation for such purposes.
§ 1511.5
Obligations of Funding Corporation; no adverse claims.
(a) Except in the case of a security interest in favor of the United States or a Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise as provided in § 1511.4(c)(1), for the purposes of this part 1511, the Funding Corporation and the Federal Reserve Banks shall treat the Participant to whose Securities Account an interest in a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security has been credited as the Person exclusively entitled to issue a Transfer Message, to receive interest and other payments with respect thereof and otherwise to exercise all the rights and powers with respect to such Security, notwithstanding any information or notice to the contrary. Neither the Federal Reserve Banks nor the Funding Corporation is liable to a Person asserting or having an Adverse Claim to a Security Entitlement or to a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security in a Participant's Securities Account, including any such claim arising as a result of the transfer or disposition of a Book-entry Funding Corporation Security by a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to a Transfer Message that the Federal Reserve Bank reasonably believes to be genuine.
(b) The obligation of the Funding Corporation to make payments of interest and principal with respect to Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities is discharged at the time payment in the appropriate amount is made as follows:
(1) Interest on Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities is either credited by a Federal Reserve Bank to a Funds Account maintained at such Bank or otherwise paid as directed by the Participant.
(2) Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities are redeemed in accordance with their terms by a Federal Reserve Bank withdrawing the securities from the Participant's Securities Account in which they are maintained and by either crediting the amount of the redemption proceeds, including both principal and interest where applicable, to a Funds Account at such Bank or otherwise paying such principal and interest, as directed by the Participant. The principal of such Securities shall be paid using the proceeds of the noninterest bearing instruments maintained by the Funding Corporation for such purpose.
§ 1511.6
Authority of Federal Reserve Banks.
(a) Each Federal Reserve Bank is hereby authorized as fiscal agent of the Funding Corporation to perform functions with respect to the issuance of Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities offered and sold by the Funding Corporation, in accordance with the Securities Documentation, and Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars; to service and maintain Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities in accounts established for such purposes; to make payments of principal and interest with respect to such Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities as directed by the Funding Corporation; to effect transfer of Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities between Participants' Securities Accounts as directed by the Participants; and to perform such other duties as fiscal agent as may be requested by the Funding Corporation.
(b) Each Federal Reserve Bank may issue Operating Circulars not inconsistent with this Part, governing the details of its handling of Book-entry Funding Corporation Securities, Security Entitlements, and the operation of the Book-Entry System under this Part.
§ 1511.7
Liability of the Funding Corporation and Federal Reserve Banks.
The Funding Corporation and the Federal Reserve Banks may rely on the information provided in a Transfer Message, or other documentation, and are not required to verify the information. The Funding Corporation and the Federal Reserve Banks shall not be liable for any action taken in accordance with the information set out in a
Transfer Message, other documentation, or evidence submitted in support thereof.
§ 1511.8
Notice of attachment.
The interest of a debtor in a Security Entitlement may be reached by a creditor only by legal process upon the Securities Intermediary with whom the debtor's securities account is maintained, except where a Security Entitlement is maintained in the name of a secured party, in which case the debtor's interest may be reached by legal process upon the secured party. The regulations in this part do not purport to establish whether a Federal Reserve Bank is required to honor an order or other notice of attachment in any particular case or class of cases.
PARTS 1512-1599 [RESERVED]
12 CFR Ch. XVI (1-1-25 Edition)
Office of Financial Research, Treasury Dept.

# CHAPTER XVI—OFFICE OF FINANCIAL RESEARCH, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
Part
Page
1600
Organization and functions of the Office of Financial Research
743
1601-1609
[Reserved]
1610
Regulatory data collections
745
1611-1699
[Reserved]
Pt. 1600

# PART 1600—ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS OF THE OFFICE OF FINANCIAL RESEARCH

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 7301, 31 U.S.C. 321, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) (Pub. L. 111-203); E.O. 12674, 3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 215, as modified by E.O. 12731, 3 CFR, 1990 Comp., p. 306.

# Source:
76 FR 60708, Sept. 30, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1600.1
Standards of ethical conduct.
This section applies to the employees of the Office of Financial Research and is in addition to 5 CFR 3101.101-104, and 31 CFR part 0:
(a)
Definitions
—For purposes of this subpart:
(1) “Business confidential information” shall include trade secret or other formula, practice, process, design, instrument, pattern, or compilation of information which is not generally known or reasonably ascertainable, by which a business can obtain an economic advantage over competitors or customers. This shall include non-public position and transaction data, as well as data provided to supervisors or regulators that is unpublished.
(2) “Position data” is defined as:
(i) Data on financial assets or liabilities held on the balance sheet of a financial company, where positions are created or changed by the execution of a financial transaction; and
(ii) Includes information that identifies counterparties, the valuation by the financial company of the position, and information that makes possible an independent valuation of the position.
(3) “Transaction data” is defined as the structure and legal description of a financial contract, with sufficient detail to describe the rights and obligations between counterparties and make possible an independent valuation.
(4) “Micro-level data” is defined as information specific to an individual transaction or position.
(5) “Masked data” is defined as data that has been altered to prevent attribution to a particular financial company.
(6) “Financial company” has the same meaning given to such term in title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, 12 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.
(2010), and includes an insured depository institution and an insurance company.
(b)
One-year post-employment restriction.
(1) A current or former employee of the Office of Financial Research who has had access to the transaction or position data or business confidential information maintained by the Data Center about financial entities required to report to the Office may not, within one year after last having had access in the course of official duties to such transaction or position data or business confidential information, be employed by or provide advice or consulting services to a financial company, regardless of whether that financial company is required to report to the Office.
(2) A current or former employee of the Office of Financial Research who has had limited access to the transaction or position data or business confidential information maintained by the Data Center about financial entities required to report to the Office may request a written waiver pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section from the Designated Agency Ethics Official to be employed by or provide advice or consulting services to a financial company, provided that the issuance of the waiver would not compromise any data or business confidential information.
(c)
Waivers
—The post-employment restrictions set forth in section 152(g) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may be waived in whole or in part for an employee with limited access to the transaction or position data or business confidential information maintained by the Data Center if—
(1) The Designated Agency Ethics Official, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Financial Research or the Department's General Counsel in instances where consultation with the Director poses a conflict or the Director's position is vacant, determines in writing that such waiver is unlikely to compromise any financial company's business confidential information, unfairly advantage or disadvantage any financial company, or affect
the integrity or effectiveness of the Office of Financial Research.
(2) Relevant factors to be considered by the Designated Agency Ethics Official and the Director or General Counsel include—
(i) The nature and importance of the employee's position and the degree to which the employee had access to non-public or business confidential data for the purpose of analysis, standardization, or performing applied research or essential long-term research;
(ii) Whether the information to which the employee had access revealed positions or transactions of an individual financial company;
(iii) Whether the data, especially position data, remains sensitive considering changing circumstances or the passage of time;
(iv) Whether the employee had access to micro-level data, as compared to aggregated information;
(v) If the employee had access to micro-level data, whether it was sufficiently masked or coded to protect the identity of the provider or the subject financial company;
(vi) Whether the information to which the employee had access would provide a financial company employer with a competitive commercial advantage;
(vii) Whether the financial company employer has made a satisfactory representation that it has adopted screening measures which will effectively prevent a potential employee from sharing any transaction or position data or business confidential information acquired at the Office of Financial Research one year prior to accepting employment with the company;
(viii) Whether granting the waiver would affect the willingness of a financial company to continue to provide transaction or position data or business confidential information to the Office; and
(ix) Whether the proposed employment would create an appearance of impropriety or would otherwise adversely affect the interests of the government or compromise the integrity of the office.
(d) The following examples are illustrative of how the OFR post-employment prohibitions would apply under certain circumstances:
(1)
Example 1.
(i) Fact pattern: OFR employs a business data manager and such employee has no access to the transaction or position data maintained by the Data Center or other business confidential information about financial entities required to report to OFR.
(ii) Designated Agency Ethics Official's Determination: Upon termination of their employment by OFR, such employee would not be prohibited from being employed by or providing advice or consulting services to a financial company, regardless of whether that financial company is required to report to the Office.
(2)
Example 2.
(i) Fact pattern: OFR employs a data analyst and such employee has access to transaction or position data across all sectors maintained by the Data Center or other business confidential information about specific financial entities required to report to OFR.
(ii) Designated Agency Ethics Official's Determination: Upon termination of their employment by OFR, such employee would be prohibited, for a period of one year immediately after leaving OFR, from being employed by or providing advice or consulting services to a financial company, regardless of whether that financial company is required to report to the Office.
(3)
Example 3.
(i) Fact pattern: OFR employs a data analyst and such employee has access to transaction or position data across all sectors maintained by the Data Center or other business confidential information about specific financial entities required to report to OFR. Employee last had access to such data six months before termination of her employment at OFR.
(ii) Designated Agency Ethics Official's Determination: Upon termination of employment by OFR, such employee would be prohibited, for a period of six months immediately after leaving OFR, from being employed by or providing advice or consulting services to a financial company, regardless of whether that financial company is required to report to the Office.
(4)
Example 4.
(i) Fact pattern: OFR employs a researcher and such employee has access only to “aggregated” or “masked” transaction or position data maintained by the Data Center or other business confidential information about financial entities required to report to OFR.
(ii) Designated Agency Ethics Official's Determination: Upon termination of their employment by OFR, such employee would not be prohibited from being employed by or providing advice or consulting services to a financial company, regardless of whether that financial company is required to report to the Office.
(5)
Example 5.
(i) Fact pattern: OFR employs a data analyst and such employee has access to transaction or position data maintained by the Data Center or other business confidential information
relating to a particular sector (i.e. banking).
(ii) Designated Agency Ethics Official's Determination: Upon termination of employment by OFR, such employee would be prohibited, for a period of one year immediately after leaving OFR, from being employed by or providing advice or consulting services to a financial company
in that particular sector (i.e. banking)
where such employment or services involves employment or advice or consulting services, regardless of whether that financial company is required to report to the Office. Such employee would be granted a waiver to work in other designated sectors immediately after leaving OFR.
(6)
Example 6.
(i) Fact pattern: OFR employs a data analyst and such employee has access to business confidential information in an area where data, such as equity mutual fund holdings, changes frequently. Employee last had access to such data six months before termination of her employment at OFR and, because of portfolio turnover, there is no risk of compromising business confidential information.
(ii) Designated Agency Ethics Official's Determination: Upon termination of their employment by OFR, such employee would not be prohibited from being employed by or providing advice or consulting services to a financial company, regardless of whether that financial company is required to report to the Office.
(7)
Example 7.
(i) Fact pattern: OFR employs an information technology specialist and such employee has access only to “masked” transaction or position data maintained by the Data Center or other “masked” business confidential information about specific financial entities required to report to OFR.
(ii) Designated Agency Ethics Official's Determination: Upon termination of their employment by OFR, such employee would not be prohibited from being employed by or providing advice or consulting services to a financial company, regardless of whether that financial company is required to report to the Office.
PARTS 1601-1609 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1610

# PART 1610—REGULATORY DATA COLLECTIONS

# Subpart A—Collections Generally
Sec.
1610.1
General authority.
1610.2
General definitions.
1610.3
Treatment of collected information.
1610.4-1610.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Specific Collections
1610.10
Centrally cleared repurchase agreement data.
1610.11
Non-centrally Cleared Bilateral Repurchase Agreement Data.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5343 and 5344.

# Source:
84 FR 4984, Feb. 20, 2019, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Collections Generally
§ 1610.1
General authority.
The collections under this part are made pursuant to the authority contained in 12 U.S.C. 5343(a) and (c)(1) and 5344(b).
§ 1610.2
General definitions.
Council
means the Financial Stability Oversight Council.
Legal Entity Identifier
or LEI for an entity means the global legal entity identifier maintained for such entity by a utility accredited by the Global
LEI Foundation or by a utility endorsed by the Regulatory Oversight Committee that satisfies the standards implemented by the Global LEI Foundation. As used in this definition:
(1) Regulatory Oversight Committee means the Regulatory Oversight Committee (of the Global LEI System), whose charter was set forth by the Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors of the Group of Twenty and the Financial Stability Board, or any successor thereof; and
(2) Global LEI Foundation means the not-for-profit organization organized under Swiss law by the Financial Stability Board in 2014, or any successor thereof.
Office
means the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Financial Research.
§ 1610.3
Treatment of collected information.
The Office will treat any financial transaction data or position data submitted to the Data Center under this part in accordance with the relevant provisions of law, including 12 U.S.C. 5343(b) and 5344(b).
§§ 1610.4-1610.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Specific Collections
§ 1610.10
Centrally cleared repurchase agreement data.
(a)
Definitions.
Central counterparty
means a clearing agency that interposes itself between the counterparties to transactions, acting functionally as the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer.
Clearing agency
has the same meaning as set forth in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23).
Covered reporter
means any central counterparty for repurchase agreement transactions that meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; provided, however, that any covered reporter shall cease to be a covered reporter only if it does not meet the dollar threshold specified in paragraph (b)(2) for at least four consecutive calendar quarters.
General collateral trade
means a repurchase agreement transaction in which the trade reported to the central counterparty is for a category of securities as opposed to a specific security.
Repurchase agreement transaction
or transaction means an agreement of a counterparty to transfer securities to another counterparty in exchange for the receipt of cash, and the simultaneous agreement of the former counterparty to later reacquire the same securities (or any subsequently substituted securities) from that same counterparty in exchange for the payment of cash; or an agreement of a counterparty to acquire securities from another counterparty in exchange for the payment of cash, and the simultaneous agreement of the former party to later transfer back the same securities (or any subsequently substituted securities) to the latter counterparty in exchange for the receipt of cash.
Specific-security trade
means a repurchase agreement transaction where the trade as reported to the central counterparty is for a mutually agreed upon specific security.
(b)
Purpose and scope
—(1)
Purpose.
The purpose of this data collection is to require the reporting of certain information to the Office about repurchase agreement transactions cleared through a central counterparty. The information will be used by the Office to support the Council and Council member agencies by facilitating financial stability monitoring including research consistent with support of the Council and its member agencies, and to support the calculation of certain reference rates.
(2)
Scope of application.
Reporting under this Section is required by any central counterparty for repurchase agreement transactions that meets the definition of financial company set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5341(2) and whose average daily total open commitments in repurchase agreement contracts (gross cash positions prior to netting) across all services over all business days during the prior calendar quarter is at least $50 billion.
(c)
Data required.
(1) Covered reporters shall report trade and collateral information on all repurchase agreement transactions cleared through any of its services, subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, in accordance with the
prescribed reporting format in this section.
(2) Covered reporters shall only report trade and collateral information with respect to any repurchase agreement transaction for which there is a current or future delivery obligation as of the file observation date, including forward-starting transactions.
(3) Covered reporters shall submit the following data elements for all general collateral trades:
Table 1 to § 1610.10
(c)
—General Collateral Trades
Data element
Explanation
File Observation Date
The observation date of the file (typically one business day before the day the file is submitted).
Covered Reporter LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the covered reporter.
Transaction ID
Respondent-generated unique transaction identifier.
Submission Timestamp
Time that trade is first submitted to clearing service.
Match Timestamp
Time that trade is matched by clearing service.
Securities Asset Class Identifier Value
Asset class identifier.
Securities Asset Class Identifier Type
Type of securities identifier used (the numbering system to which the identifier belongs).
Cash Provider LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the cash provider.
Cash Provider Name
The legal name of the cash provider.
Cash Provider Internal Identifier
The internal identifier assigned by the covered reporter to the cash provider.
Cash Provider Direct Clearing Member LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the direct clearing member through which the cash provider accessed the clearing service.
Cash Provider Direct Clearing Member Name
The legal name of the of the direct clearing member through which the cash provider accessed the clearing service.
Cash Provider Direct Clearing Member Internal Identifier
The internal identifier assigned by the covered reporter to the direct clearing member through which the cash provider accessed the clearing service.
Securities Provider LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the securities provider.
Securities Provider Name
The legal name of the securities provider.
Securities Provider Internal Identifier
The internal identifier assigned by the covered reporter to the securities provider.
Securities Provider Direct Clearing Member LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the direct clearing member through which the securities provider accessed the clearing service.
Securities Provider Direct Clearing Member Name
The legal name of the direct clearing member through which the securities provider accessed the clearing service.
Securities Provider Direct Clearing Member Internal Identifier
The internal identifier assigned by the covered reporter to the direct clearing member through which the securities provider accessed the clearing service.
Broker LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the broker.
Broker Name
The legal name of the broker.
Broker Internal Identifier
The internal identifier assigned by the covered reporter to the broker.
Start Date
The start date of the repurchase agreement.
End Date
The date the repurchase agreement matures.
Rate
The repurchase agreement rate, expressed as an annual percentage rate on an actual/360-day basis.
Principal
The amount of cash borrowed or lent.
Optionality
The type of optionality, if any, in the repurchase agreement.
Minimum Maturity
The earliest possible date on which the transaction could end in accordance with its contractual terms (taking into account optionality).
(4) Covered reporters shall submit the following data elements on the collateral delivered against net general collateral exposures for all general collateral trades:
Table 2 to § 1610.10
(c)
—General Collateral Net Exposure
Data element
Explanation
File Observation Date
The observation date of the file (typically one business day before the day the file is submitted).
Covered Reporter LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the covered reporter.
Direct Clearing Member LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the direct clearing member of the clearing service.
Direct Clearing Member Name
The legal name of the direct clearing member.
Direct Clearing Member Internal Identifier
The internal identifier assigned by the covered reporter to the direct clearing member.
Transaction Side
Indicates the side of the transaction: Collateral was received by or delivered from the covered reporter.
Securities Identifier Value
Identifier of securities transferred.
Securities Identifier Type
Type of securities identifier used (the numbering system to which the identifier belongs).
Securities Quantity
Par value or quantity (as applicable) of securities transferred.
Securities Value
The market value as of most recent valuation of securities transferred, including accrued interest.
(5) Covered reporters shall submit the following data elements for all specific-security trades:
Table 3 to § 1610.10
(c)
—Specific-Security Trades
Data element
Explanation
File Observation Date
The observation date of the file (typically one business day before the day the file is submitted).
Covered Reporter LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the covered reporter.
Transaction ID
Respondent-generated unique transaction identifier.
Cash Provider LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the cash provider.
Cash Provider Name
The legal name of the cash provider.
Cash Provider Internal Identifier
The internal identifier assigned by the covered reporter to the cash provider.
Cash Provider Direct Clearing Member LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the direct clearing member through which the cash provider accessed the clearing service.
Cash Provider Direct Clearing Member Name
The legal name of the of the direct clearing member through which the cash provider accessed the clearing service.
Cash Provider Direct Clearing Member Internal Identifier
The internal identifier assigned by the covered reporter to the direct clearing member through which the cash provider accessed the clearing service.
Securities Provider LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the securities provider.
Securities Provider Name
The legal name of the securities provider.
Securities Provider Internal Identifier
The internal identifier assigned by the covered reporter to the securities provider.
Securities Provider Direct Clearing Member LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the direct clearing member through which the securities provider accessed the clearing service.
Securities Provider Direct Clearing Member Name
The legal name of the direct clearing member through which the securities provider accessed the clearing service.
Securities Provider Direct Clearing Member Internal Identifier
The internal identifier assigned by the covered reporter to the direct clearing member through which the securities provider accessed the clearing service.
Broker LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the broker.
Broker Name
The legal name of the broker.
Broker Internal Identifier
The internal identifier assigned by the covered reporter to the broker.
Submission Timestamp
Time that trade is first submitted to clearing service.
Match Timestamp
Time that trade is matched by clearing service.
Start Date
The start date of the repurchase agreement.
End Date
The date when the repurchase agreement matures; the close leg settlement date.
Optionality
The type of optionality, if any.
Minimum Maturity
The earliest possible date on which the transaction could end in accordance with its contractual terms (taking into account optionality).
Security Identifier Value
Identifier of pledged security.
Securities Identifier Type
Type of securities identifier used (the numbering system to which the identifier belongs).
Securities Quantity
Par value or quantity (as applicable) of securities transferred.
Substitution Collateral Identifier Value
Asset class identifier or no substitution.
Substitution Collateral Identifier Type
Type of securities identifier used (the numbering system to which the identifier belongs).
Cash Provider Start Leg Amount
The amount of cash transferred by the cash provider on the open leg of the transaction.
Securities Provider Start Leg Amount
The amount of cash received by the securities provider on the open leg of the transaction.
Cash Provider Rate
The rate of interest received by the cash provider, expressed as an annual percentage rate on an actual/360-day basis.
Securities Provider Rate
The rate of interest paid by the securities provider, expressed as an annual percentage rate on an actual/360-day basis.
Cash Provider Close Leg Settlement Amount
The amount of cash received by the cash provider on the close leg of the transaction.
Securities Provider Close Leg Settlement Amount
The amount of cash paid by the securities provider on the close leg of the transaction.
(d)
Reporting process and collection agent.
The Office may designate a collection agent for the data reporting. Covered reporters shall submit the required data for each business day by 6:00 a.m. Eastern time on the following business day.
(e)
Compliance.
(1) Any central counterparty that is a covered reporter as of the effective date of this Section shall comply with the reporting requirements pursuant to this Section in the following manner:
(i) Subject to paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section, a covered reporter shall begin reporting all data elements required to be submitted pursuant to paragraph (c)(5) of this section within 180 days after April 22, 2019.
(ii) Subject to paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section, a covered reporter shall begin reporting all data elements required to be submitted pursuant to paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section within 240 days after April 22, 2019.
(iii) If a covered reporter is able to effect a rulemaking through the Securities and Exchange Commission requiring each direct clearing member, counterparty, and broker associated with a repurchase agreement transaction to obtain an LEI and provide it to the covered reporter, the covered reporter shall begin reporting all data elements requiring an LEI other than its own pursuant to paragraphs (c)(3) through (5) of this section by the later of the effective date of its rulemaking, or 420 days April 22, 2019, and continue to report all data elements requiring a legal name or internal identifier until 365 days after the date the covered reporter begins reporting all data elements requiring an LEI pursuant to this section. If a covered reporter is unable to effect such a rulemaking, the covered reporter is not required to report any data elements requiring an LEI other than its own pursuant to paragraphs (c)(3) through (5) of this section, except, if available, the LEI for any direct clearing member, counterparty, or broker associated with a repurchase agreement transaction that has an LEI, and shall report all data elements requiring a legal name or internal identifier in any report submitted under this section regardless of whether the relevant entity has an LEI. A covered reporter shall report its own LEI in accordance with the schedules set forth in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(2) The first submission by any central counterparty that is a covered reporter as of the effective date of this Section shall be submitted on the first business day after the applicable compliance date under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
e

# )(2):
For example, if this section became effective on March 20, 2019, a central counterparty that meets the dollar threshold specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for the calendar quarter ending December 31, 2018, would be required to submit its first report under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section on the first business day after September 16, 2019, its first report under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section on November 15, 2019, and its first report with data elements requiring an LEI (other than that of the covered reporter) on May 13, 2020 (if the covered reporter effected the rulemaking described in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section).
(3) Any central counterparty that becomes a covered reporter after the effective date of this Section shall comply with the reporting requirements pursuant to this Section beginning on the later of the schedule set forth in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section or the first business day of the third calendar quarter following the calendar quarter in which such central counterparty meets the dollar threshold specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
e

# )(3):
For example, if this section became effective on March 20, 2019, a central counterparty that first meets the dollar threshold specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for the calendar quarter ending June 30, 2019, would be required to submit its first report under paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section on January 2, 2020, and its first report with data elements requiring an LEI (other than that of the covered reporter) on May 13, 2020 (if the covered reporter effected the rulemaking described in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section by May 13, 2020).

# Note 3 to paragraph (
e

# )(3):
For example, if this section became effective on March 20, 2019, a central counterparty that first met the dollar threshold specified in paragraph (b)(2) for the calendar quarter ending June 30, 2020, would be required to comply with all of the reporting requirements under this section on January 2, 2021 (and would continue
to be required to report all data elements requiring a legal name or internal identifier for at least 365 days after the effective date of the covered reporter's rulemaking described in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) if such effective date occurred after January 2, 2021).
§ 1610.11
Non-centrally Cleared Bilateral Repurchase Agreement Data.
(a)
Definitions.
The terms used in this section have the following meanings:
Business day
is the period beginning at 6 p.m. Eastern Time on any day that the Fedwire Funds Service is open to 6 p.m. Eastern Time on the next day that the Fedwire Funds Service is open.
Covered reporter
means any financial company that meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; provided, however, that any covered reporter shall cease to be a covered reporter only if it does not meet the dollar thresholds specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for at least four consecutive calendar quarters.
File observation date
means the date on which any business day ends.
Financial company
has the same meaning as in 12 U.S.C. 5341(2).
Government securities broker
means any financial company registered as a government securities broker under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Government securities dealer
means any financial company registered as a government securities dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Investment adviser
means any financial company registered as an investment adviser with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
Non-centrally cleared bilateral repurchase agreement transaction
means an agreement of one party to sell securities to a second party in exchange for the receipt of cash, and the simultaneous agreement of the former party to later reacquire the same securities (or any subsequently substituted securities) from that same second party in exchange for the payment of cash; or an agreement of a party to acquire securities from a second party in exchange for the payment of cash, and the simultaneous agreement of the former party to later transfer back the same securities (or any subsequently substituted securities) to the latter party in exchange for the receipt of cash. The agreement does not involve a tri-party custodian and is not cleared with a central counterparty. This definition includes, but is not limited to, transactions that are executed under a Master Repurchase Agreement (MRA) or Global Master Repurchase Agreement (GMRA), or which are agreed to by the parties as subject to the provisions of 11 U.S.C. 559. Notwithstanding the above, transactions conducted under a Securities Lending Agreement (SLA) or a Master Securities Lending Agreement (MSLA) are not considered repurchase agreements, nor are repurchase agreements arising from either participation in a commercial mortgage loan or the initial securitization of a residential mortgage loan.
Outstanding commitment
means the amount of financial obligations entered into pursuant to any repurchase agreement that opens on any business day or is outstanding as of the end of any business day, including transactions which both opened and closed on the same business day. These financial obligations include all of those that exist prior to netting.
Securities broker
means any financial company registered as a broker with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Securities dealer
means any financial company registered as a dealer with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(b)
Purpose and scope
—(1)
Purpose.
The purpose of this data collection is to require the reporting of certain information to the Office about non-centrally cleared bilateral repurchase agreement transactions. The information will be used by the Office to fulfill its responsibilities under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, including support of the Council and Council member agencies by facilitating financial stability monitoring and research consistent with support of the Council and its member agencies.
(2)
Scope of application.
Reporting under this section is required by any financial company that participates in a
non-centrally cleared bilateral repurchase agreement transaction and that is:
(i) A securities broker, securities dealer, government securities broker, or government securities dealer whose average daily outstanding commitments to borrow cash and extend guarantees in non-centrally cleared bilateral repurchase agreement transactions with counterparties over all business days during the prior calendar quarter is at least $10 billion, or
(ii) Any other financial company with over $1 billion in assets or assets under management whose average daily outstanding commitments to borrow cash and extend guarantees in non-centrally cleared bilateral repurchase agreement transactions, including commitments of all funds for which the company serves as an investment adviser, with counterparties that are not securities brokers, securities dealers, government securities brokers, or government securities dealers over all business days during the prior calendar quarter is at least $10 billion.
(c)
Data required.
(1) Covered reporters shall report trade and collateral information on all non-centrally cleared bilateral repurchase agreement transactions, subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, in accordance with the prescribed reporting format in this section.
(2) Covered reporters shall only report trade and collateral information with respect to any non-centrally cleared bilateral repurchase agreement transaction which opens on, or is outstanding at any time during the business day, including transactions which both opened and closed during the business day.
(3) Covered reporters shall submit the following data elements for all transactions:
Table 1 to Paragraph
(c)(3)
Data element
Explanation
File observation date
The date on which the business day ends.
Covered reporter LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the covered reporter.
Cash lender LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the cash lender.
Cash lender name
The legal name of the cash lender.
Cash borrower name
The legal name of the cash borrower.
Cash borrower LEI
The Legal Entity Identifier of the cash borrower.
Guarantee
Indicator for whether the covered reporter issued a guarantee with respect to the transaction.
Transaction ID
The covered reporter-generated unique transaction identifier in an alphanumeric string format.
Unique transaction ID
If available, the Unique Transaction Identifier (UTI).
Trading platform
For transactions arranged using an outside vendor's platform, the provider of the platform.
Trade timestamp
The timestamp that the trade became an obligation of the covered reporter or the covered reporter's affiliate or subsidiary.
Start date
The start date of the repo.
End date
The date the repo matures.
Minimum maturity date
The earliest possible date on which the transaction could end in accordance with its contractual terms (taking into account optionality).
Cash lender internal identifier
The internal identifier assigned to the cash lender by the covered reporter, if the covered reporter is not the cash lender.
Cash borrower internal identifier
The internal identifier assigned to the cash borrower by the covered reporter, if the covered reporter is not the cash borrower.
Start leg amount
The amount of cash transferred to the cash borrower on the open leg of the transaction at the inception of the transaction.
Close leg amount
The amount of cash to be transferred by the cash borrower on the end date of the transaction.
Current cash amount
The amount of cash to be transferred by the cash borrower, inclusive of principal, accrued interest and other adjustments, as of the end of the business day.
Start leg currency
The currency which is used in the Start leg amount field.
Rate
The rate of interest paid by the cash borrower on the transaction, expressed as an annual percentage rate on an actual/360-day basis.
Floating rate benchmark
The name of the benchmark interest rate upon which the transaction is based.
Floating rate reset frequency
The time period, in calendar days, describing the frequency of the floating rate resets.
Spread
The contractual spread over (or below) the benchmark rate referenced in the repurchase agreement.
Securities identifier type
The identifier type for the securities transferred between cash borrower and cash lender.
Security identifier
The identifier of securities transferred between the cash borrower and the cash lender in the repo.
Securities quantity
The number of units (e.g., shares, bonds, bills, notes) transferred to the cash lender as of the end of the business day.
Securities value
The market value of the transferred securities as of the end of the business day, inclusive of accrued interest.
Securities value at inception
The market value of the transferred securities at the inception of the transaction, inclusive of accrued interest.
Securities value currency
The currency used in the Securities value and Securities value at inception fields.
Haircut
The difference between the market value of the transferred securities and the purchase price paid at the inception of the transaction.
Special instructions, notes, or comments
The covered reporter may characterize any detail of the transaction with special instructions, notes, or comments.
(d)
Reporting process.
Covered reporters shall submit the required data for each business day by 11 a.m. Eastern Time on the following business day. The Office may either collect the data itself or designate a collection agent for that purpose.
(e)
Compliance date.
(1) Any financial company that meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section as of the effective date of this section shall comply with the reporting requirements pursuant to this section 150 days after the effective date of this section. Any such covered reporter's first submission shall be submitted on the first business day after such compliance date.
(2) Any financial company that meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section as of the effective date of this section shall comply with the reporting requirements pursuant to this section 270 days after the effective date of this section. Any such covered reporter's first submission shall be submitted on the first business day after such compliance date.
(3) Any financial company not described in subparagraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section that meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section after the effective date of this section shall comply with the reporting requirements pursuant to this section 150 days after the last day of the calendar quarter in which such financial company becomes a covered reporter.
(4) Any financial company not described in subparagraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section that meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section after the effective date of this section shall comply with the reporting requirements pursuant to this section 270 days after the last day of the calendar quarter in which such financial company becomes a covered reporter.
[89 FR 37107, May 6, 2024]
PARTS 1611-1699 [RESERVED]
12 CFR Ch. XVII (1-1-25 Edition)
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, HUD

# CHAPTER XVII—OFFICE OF FEDERAL HOUSING ENTERPRISE OVERSIGHT, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
SUBCHAPTER A—OFHEO ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS [RESERVED]
SUBCHAPTER B [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER C—SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS
Part
Page
1700-1709
[Reserved]
1777
Prompt corrective action
757
1778-1799
[Reserved]
SUBCHAPTER A—OFHEO ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS [RESERVED]
SUBCHAPTER B [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER C—SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS
PARTS 1700-1709 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1777

# PART 1777—PROMPT CORRECTIVE ACTION
Sec.
1777.1
Authority, purpose, scope, and implementation dates.
1777.2
Preservation of other authority.
1777.3
Definitions.

# Subpart A—Prompt Supervisory Response
1777.10
Developments prompting supervisory response.
1777.11
Supervisory response.
1777.12
Other supervisory action.

# Subpart B—Capital Classifications and Orders Under Section 1366 of the 1992 Act
1777.20
Capital classifications.
1777.21
Notice of capital category, and adjustments.
1777.22
Limitation on capital distributions.
1777.23
Capital restoration plans.
1777.24
Notice of intent to issue an order.
1777.25
Response to notice.
1777.26
Final notice of order.
1777.27
Exhaustion and review.
1777.28
Appointment of conservator for a significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized Enterprise.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1452(b)(2), 1456(c), 1718(c)(2), 1723a(k), 4513(a), 4513(b), 4514, 4517, 4611-4619, 4622, 4623, 4631, 4635.

# Source:
67 FR 3598, Jan. 25, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1777.1
Authority, purpose, scope, and implementation dates.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight (OFHEO) pursuant to sections 1313, 1371, 1372, and 1376 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act (1992 Act) (12 U.S.C. 4513, 4631, 4632, and 4636). These provisions broadly authorize OFHEO to take such actions as are deemed appropriate by the Director of OFHEO to ensure that the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (collectively, the Enterprises) maintain adequate capital and operate in a safe and sound manner.
(b)
Authority, purpose and scope of subpart A.
In addition to the authority set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, subpart A of this part is also issued pursuant to section 1314 of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4514), section 307(c) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1456(c)), and section 309(k) of the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1723a(k)), requiring each Enterprise to submit such reports to OFHEO as the Director of OFHEO determines, in his or her judgment, are necessary to carry out the purposes of the 1992 Act. Subpart A of this part is also issued in reliance on section 1317 of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4517) authorizing OFHEO to conduct examinations of the Enterprises. The purpose of subpart A of this part is to set forth a framework of early intervention supervisory measures, other than formal enforcement actions, that OFHEO may take to address emerging developments that merit supervisory review to ensure they do not pose a current or future threat to the safety and soundness of an Enterprise. OFHEO's initiation of procedures under subpart A does not necessarily indicate that any unsound condition exists. The supervisory responses enumerated in § 1777.11 do not constitute orders under the 1992 Act for purposes of sections 1371 and 1376 thereof (12 U.S.C. 4631 and 4636).
(c)
Authority, purpose, and scope of subpart B.
In addition to the authority set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, subpart B of this part is also issued pursuant to subtitle B of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4611 through 4623), section 303(b)(2) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1452(b)(2)), and section 303(c)(2) of the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1718(c)(2)). These provisions authorize OFHEO to administer certain capital
requirements for the Enterprises, to classify the capital of the Enterprises based on capital levels specified in the 1992 Act, and, in appropriate circumstances, to exercise discretion to reclassify an Enterprise into a lower capital category. Under these provisions, there are also automatic consequences for an Enterprise that is not classified as adequately capitalized, as well as discretionary authority for OFHEO to require an Enterprise to take remedial actions. Subpart B implements the provisions of sections 1364 through 1368, 1369(b) through (e), 1369C, and 1369D of the 1992 Act as they apply to the Enterprises (12 U.S.C. 4614 through 4618, 4619(b) through (e), 4622 and 4623). The principal purposes of subpart B are to identify the capital measures and capital levels that OFHEO uses in determining the capital classification of an Enterprise; to set out the procedures OFHEO uses in determining such capital classifications; to establish procedures for submission and review of capital restoration plans of an Enterprise that is not classified as adequately capitalized; and to establish procedures under which OFHEO issues orders pursuant to section 1366(b)(1) through (4) of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4616(b)(1) through (4)).
(d)
Effective dates of capital classifications.
Section 1364 of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4614(d)) directs OFHEO to determine capital classifications for the Enterprises by reference to two capital standards, consisting of the minimum or critical capital level on the one hand, and the risk-based capital level on the other. Section 1364(d) of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4614(d)) excludes consideration of whether the Enterprises meet the risk-based capital level in determining capital classifications or reclassifications under 1364, until one year after the effective date of OFHEO's regulation implementing OFHEO's risk-based capital test (issued under section 1361(e) of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4611(e)), until such time, section 1364(d) provides that an Enterprise is to be classified as adequately capitalized so long as it meets the minimum capital level. Subpart B contains a currently effective set of capital classifications omitting consideration of the risk-based capital level, as well as another set of capital classifications which will take effect, and displace the current set of capital classifications, on September 13, 2002 that is, one year after the effective date of OFHEO's risk-based capital rule published at 66 FR 47730, September 13, 2001.
§ 1777.2
Preservation of other authority.
(a)
Supervisory standards.
Notwithstanding the existence of procedures in § 1777.10 for the Director of OFHEO to designate certain developments for supervisory response under subpart A of this part, nothing in this part in any way limits the authority of OFHEO otherwise to take such actions with respect to any issue as is deemed appropriate by the Director of OFHEO to ensure that the Enterprises maintain adequate capital, operate in a safe and sound manner, and comply with the 1992 Act and regulations, orders, and agreements thereunder.
(b)
Capital floor.
Classification of an Enterprise as adequately capitalized in accordance with subtitle B of the 1992 Act and subpart B of this part indicates that the Enterprise meets the capital levels under sections 1361 and 1362 of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4611 and 4612) and regulations promulgated thereunder as of the times specified in the classification determination. Nothing in subpart B of this part or subtitle B of the 1992 Act limits OFHEO's authority otherwise to address circumstances that would require additional capital through regulations, orders, notices, guidance, or other actions.
(c)
Form of supervisory action or response.
In addition to the supervisory responses contemplated under subpart A of this part, and the authority to classify and reclassify the Enterprises, to issue orders, and to appoint conservators under subpart B of this part, the 1992 Act grants OFHEO broad discretion to take such other supervisory actions as may be deemed by OFHEO to be appropriate, including issuing temporary and permanent cease and desist orders, imposing civil money penalties, appointing a conservator under section 1369(a)(1) through (2) of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4619(a)(1) through (2)), entering into a written
agreement the violation of which is actionable through enforcement proceedings, or entering into any other formal or informal agreement with an Enterprise. Neither the 1992 Act nor this part in any way limit OFHEO's discretion over the selection of the type of these actions, and the selection of one type of action under this part or under these other statutory authorities, or a combination thereof, does not foreclose OFHEO from pursuing any other action.
§ 1777.3
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions will apply:
1992 Act
means the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act, 12 U.S.C. 4501
et seq.
Affiliate
means an entity that controls an Enterprise, is controlled by an Enterprise, or is under common control with an Enterprise.
Capital distribution
means:
(1) Any dividend or other distribution in cash or in kind made with respect to any shares of, or other ownership interest in, an Enterprise, except a dividend consisting only of shares of the Enterprise; and
(2) Any payment made by an Enterprise to repurchase, redeem, retire, or otherwise acquire any of its shares or other ownership interests, including any extension of credit made to finance an acquisition by the Enterprise of such shares or other ownership interests, except to the extent the Enterprise makes a payment to repurchase its shares for the purpose of fulfilling an obligation of the Enterprise under an employee stock ownership plan that is qualified under section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 401
et seq.
) or any substantially equivalent plan as determined by the Director of OFHEO in writing in advance.
Core capital
has the same meaning as provided in 12 CFR 1750.2.
Critical capital level
means the amount of core capital that is equal to the sum of one half of the amount determined under 12 CFR 1750.4(a)(1) and five-ninths of the amounts determined under 12 CFR 1750.4(a)(2) through 1750.4(a)(7).
Enterprise
means the Federal National Mortgage Association and any affiliate thereof, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and any affiliate thereof.
Minimum capital level
means the minimum amount of core capital specified for an Enterprise pursuant to section 1362 of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4612), as determined under 12 CFR 1750.4.
OFHEO
means the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight.
Risk-based capital level
means the amount of total capital specified for an Enterprise pursuant to section 1361 of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4611), as determined under OFHEO's regulations implementing section 1361.
Total capital
has the same meaning as provided at 12 CFR 1750.11(n).

# Subpart A—Prompt Supervisory Response
§ 1777.10
Developments prompting supervisory response.
In the event of any of the following developments, OFHEO shall undertake one of the supervisory responses enumerated in § 1777.11, or a combination thereof:
(a) OFHEO's national House Price Index (HPI) for the most recent quarter is more than two percent less than the national HPI four quarters previously, or for any Census Division or Divisions in which are located properties securing more than 25 percent of single-family mortgages owned or securing securities guaranteed by an enterprise, the HPI for the most recent quarter for such Division or Divisions is more than five percent less than the HPI for that Division or Divisions four quarters previously;
(b) An Enterprise's publicly reported net income for the most recent calendar quarter is less than one-half of its average quarterly net income for any four-quarter period during the prior eight quarters;
(c) An Enterprise's publicly reported net interest margin (NIM) for the most recent quarter is less than one-half of its average NIM for any four-quarter period during the prior eight quarters;
(d) For single-family mortgage loans owned or securities by an Enterprise that are delinquent ninety days or more or in foreclosure, the proportion
of such loans in the most recent quarter has increased more than one percentage point compared to the lowest proportion of such loans in any of the prior four quarters; or
(e) Any other development, including conduct of an activity by an Enterprise, that OFHEO determines in its discretion presents a risk to the safety and soundness of the Enterprise or a possible violation of applicable law, regulation, or order.
§ 1777.11
Supervisory response.
(a)
Level I supervisory response
—(1)
Supervisory letter.
Not later than five business days after OFHEO determines that a development enumerated in § 1777.10 has transpired, OFHEO shall deliver a supervisory letter alerting the chief executive officer or the board of directors of the Enterprise to OFHEO's determination.
(2)
Contents of supervisory letter.
The supervisory letter shall notify the Enterprise that, pursuant to this subpart, OFHEO is commencing review of a potentially adverse development. As is appropriate under the particular circumstances and the nature of the potentially adverse development, the letter may direct the Enterprise to undertake one or more of the following actions, as of such time as OFHEO directs:
(i) Provide OFHEO with any relevant information known to the Enterprise about the potentially adverse development, in such format as OFHEO directs;
(ii) Respond to specific questions and concerns that OFHEO poses about the potentially adverse development; and
(iii) Take appropriate action.
(3)
Review; further action.
Based on the Enterprise's response to the supervisory letter and consideration of other relevant factors, OFHEO shall promptly determine whether the Level I supervisory response is adequate to resolve any supervisory issues implicated by the potentially adverse development, or whether additional supervisory response under this section is warranted.
(4)
Sequence of supervisory responses.
The Level II through Level IV supervisory responses in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section may be carried out in any sequence, including simultaneous performance of two or more such responses. OFHEO may also carry out one or more such responses simultaneously with a Level I supervisory response pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(b)
Level II supervisory response
—(1)
Special review.
In addition to any other supervisory response described in this section, OFHEO may conduct a special review of an Enterprise in order to assess the impact of the potentially adverse development on the Enterprise.
(2)
Review; further action.
Based on the results of the special review and consideration of other factors deemed by OFHEO to be relevant, OFHEO shall promptly determine whether additional supervisory response under this section is warranted.
(c)
Level III supervisory response
—(1)
Action plan.
In addition to any other supervisory response described in this section, OFHEO may direct the Enterprise to prepare and submit an action plan to OFHEO, in such format and at such time as OFHEO directs.
(2)
Contents of action plan.
Such action plan shall include, subject to additional direction by OFHEO, the following:
(i) In the case of any potentially adverse development arising from conditions or practices internal to the Enterprise, any relevant information known to the Enterprise about the circumstances that led to the potentially adverse development;
(ii) An assessment of likely consequences that the potentially adverse development may have for the Enterprise; and
(iii) The proposed course of action the Enterprise will undertake in response to the potentially adverse development, including an explanation as to why such approach is preferred to any other alternative actions by the Enterprise and how such approach will address the concerns of OFHEO.
(3)
Review; further action.
If OFHEO in its discretion determines that the information, assessment, or proposed course of action contained in the action plan is incomplete or inadequate, OFHEO shall promptly direct the Enterprise to correct such deficiencies to the extent OFHEO determines such
corrections will aid in resolving supervisory issues implicated by the potentially adverse development, and will promptly determine whether additional supervisory response under this section is warranted.
(d)
Level IV supervisory response
—(1)
Notice to show cause.
In addition to any other supervisory response described in this section, OFHEO may issue written notice to the chief executive officer or the board of directors of the Enterprise directing the Enterprise to show cause, on or before the date specified in the notice, why OFHEO should not issue one or more of the following:
(i) A notice of charges to the Enterprise under section 1371 of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4631) and the procedures in 12 CFR part 1780 commencing an action to order the Enterprise to cease and desist conduct, conditions, or violations specified in the notice to show cause;
(ii) A temporary order to the Enterprise under section 1372 of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4632) and the procedures in 12 CFR part 1780 to cease and desist from, and take affirmative actions to prevent or remedy harm from, conduct, conditions, or violations specified in the notice to show cause;
(iii) A notice of charges under section 1376 of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4636) and the procedures in 12 CFR part 1780 commencing imposition of a civil money penalty against the Enterprise; or
(iv) A notice of discretionary reclassification of the Enterprise's capital classification under section 1364(b) of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4614(b)) and subpart B of this part.
(2)
Review; further action.
Based on the Enterprise's response to the notice to show cause and consideration of other relevant factors, OFHEO shall promptly determine whether to commence the actions described in the notice, and whether additional supervisory response under this section is warranted.
§ 1777.12
Other supervisory action.
Notwithstanding the pendency or completion of one or more supervisory responses described in § 1777.11, OFHEO may at any time undertake additional supervisory steps and actions in the form of any informal or formal supervisory tool available to OFHEO under the 1992 Act, including, but not limited to, issuing guidance or directives under section 1313 (12 U.S.C. 4513), requiring reports under section 1314 (12 U.S.C. 4514), conducting other examinations under section 1317 (12 U.S.C. 4517), issuing discretionary reclassification under section 1364 (12 U.S.C. 4614), initiating discretionary action under section 1366(b) (12 U.S.C. 4616(b)), appointing a conservator under section 1369(a) (12 U.S.C. 4619(a)), or initiating administrative enforcement action under sections 1371, 1372, and 1376 (12 U.S.C. 4631, 4632 and 4636). In addition, OFHEO may take any such steps or actions with respect to an Enterprise that fails to make a submission or comply with a directive as required by § 1777.11, or to address an Enterprise's failure to implement an appropriate action in response to a supervisory letter or under an action plan under § 1777.11.

# Subpart B—Capital Classifications and Orders Under Section 1366 of the 1992 Act
§ 1777.20
Capital classifications.
(a)
Capital classifications after the effective date of section 1365 of the 1992 Act.
The capital classification of an Enterprise for purposes of subpart B of this part is as follows:
(1)
Adequately capitalized.
Except as otherwise provided under paragraph (a)(5) of this section, an Enterprise will be classified as adequately capitalized if the Enterprise:
(i) As of the date specified in the notice of proposed capital classification, holds total capital equaling or exceeding the risk-based capital level; and
(ii) As of the date specified in the notice of proposed capital classification, holds core capital equaling or exceeding the minimum capital level.
(2)
Undercapitalized.
Except as otherwise provided under paragraph (a)(5) of this section or § 1777.23(c) or § 1777.23(h), an Enterprise will be classified as undercapitalized if the Enterprise:
(i) As of the date specified in the notice of proposed capital classification, holds total capital less than the risk-based capital level; and
(ii) As of the date specified in the notice of proposed capital classification,
holds core capital equaling or exceeding the minimum capital level.
(3)
Significantly undercapitalized.
Except as otherwise provided under paragraph (a)(5) of this section or § 1777.23(c) or § 1777.23(h), an Enterprise will be classified as significantly undercapitalized if the Enterprise:
(i) As of the date specified in the notice of proposed capital classification, holds core capital less than the minimum capital level; and
(ii) As of the date specified in the notice of proposed capital classification, holds core capital equaling or exceeding the critical capital level.
(4)
Critically undercapitalized.
An Enterprise will be classified as critically undercapitalized if, as of the date specified in the notice of proposed capital classification, the Enterprise holds core capital less than the critical capital level.
(5)
Discretionary reclassification—determination to reclassify.
If OFHEO determines in writing that an Enterprise is engaging in action or inaction (including a failure to respond appropriately to changes in circumstances or unforeseen events) that could result in a rapid depletion of core capital, or that the value of property subject to mortgages held or securitized by the Enterprise has decreased significantly, or that reclassification is otherwise deemed necessary to ensure that the Enterprise holds adequate capital and operates safely, OFHEO may reclassify the Enterprise as:
(i) Undercapitalized if the Enterprise is otherwise classified as adequately capitalized;
(ii) Significantly undercapitalized if the Enterprise is otherwise classified as undercapitalized; or
(iii) Critically undercapitalized if the Enterprise is otherwise classified as significantly undercapitalized.
(b)
Duration of reclassification; successive reclassifications.
(1) A reclassification of an Enterprise based on action, inaction, or conditions under paragraph (a)(5) or (c)(5) of this section shall be considered in the determination of each subsequent capital classification of the Enterprise, and shall only cease being considered in the determination of the Enterprise's capital classification after OFHEO determines that the action, inaction or condition upon which the reclassification was based has ceased or been eliminated and remedied to OFHEO's satisfaction.
(2) If the action, inaction, or condition upon which a reclassification was based under paragraph (a)(5) or (c)(5) of this section has not ceased or been eliminated and remedied to OFHEO's satisfaction within such reasonable time as is determined by OFHEO to be appropriate, OFHEO may consider such failure to be the basis for additional reclassification under such paragraph (a)(5) or (c)(5) of this section into a lower capital classification.
(c)
Capital classifications before the effective date of section 1365 of the 1992 Act.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, until September 13, 2002, the capital classification of an Enterprise for purposes of subpart B of this part is as follows:
(1)
Adequately capitalized.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, an Enterprise will be classified as adequately capitalized if the Enterprise, as of the date specified in the notice of proposed capital classification, holds core capital equaling or exceeding the minimum capital level.
(2)
Undercapitalized.
An Enterprise will be classified as undercapitalized if the Enterprise:
(i) As of the date specified in the notice of proposed capital classification, holds core capital equaling or exceeding the minimum capital level; and
(ii) Is reclassified as undercapitalized by OFHEO under paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
(3)
Significantly undercapitalized.
Except as otherwise provided under paragraph (c)(5) of this section or § 1777.23(c) or § 1777.23(h), an Enterprise will be classified as significantly undercapitalized if the Enterprise:
(i) As of the date specified in the notice of proposed capital classification, held core capital less than the minimum capital level; and
(ii) As of the date specified in the notice of proposed capital classification, held core capital equaling or exceeding the critical capital level.
(4)
Critically undercapitalized.
An Enterprise will be classified as critically undercapitalized if, as of the date specified in the notice of proposed capital
classification, the Enterprise held core capital less than the critical capital level.
(5)
Discretionary reclassification.
If OFHEO determines in writing that an Enterprise is engaging in action or inaction (including a failure to respond appropriately to changes in circumstances or unforeseen events) that could result a rapid depletion of core capital, or that the value of the property subject to mortgages held or securitized by the Enterprise has decreased significantly or that reclassification is deemed necessary to ensure that the Enterprise holds adequate capital and operates safely, OFHEO may reclassify the Enterprise as:
(i) Undercapitalized if the Enterprise is otherwise classified as adequately capitalized:
(ii) Significantly undercapitalized if the Enterprise is otherwise classified as undercapitalized; or
(iii) Critically undercapitalized if the Enterprise is otherwise classified as significantly undercapitalized.
(d)
Prior approvals.
In making a determination to reclassify an Enterprise under paragraph (a)(5) or (c)(5) of this section, OFHEO will not base its decision to reclassify solely on action or inaction that previously was given specific approval by the Director of OFHEO in connection with the Director's approval of the Enterprise's capital restoration plan under section 1369C of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4622), or of a written agreement with the Enterprise that is enforceable in accordance with section 1371 of the 1992 Act.
§ 1777.21
Notice of capital category, and adjustments.
(a)
Notice of capital classification.
OFHEO will classify each Enterprise according to the capital classifications in § 1777.20(a) or § 1777.20(c) on at least a quarterly basis. OFHEO may classify an Enterprise according to the capital classifications in § 1777.20(a) or § 1777.20(c), or reclassify an Enterprise as set out in § 1777.20(a)(5), § 1777.20(c)(5), § 1777.23(c), or § 1777.23(h), at such other times as OFHEO deems appropriate.
(1)
Notice of proposed capital classification.
(i) Before OFHEO classifies or reclassifies an Enterprise, OFHEO will provide the Enterprise with written notice containing the proposed capital classification, the information upon which the proposed classification is based, and the reason for the proposed classification.
(ii) Notices proposing to classify or reclassify an Enterprise as undercapitalized or significantly undercapitalized may be combined with a notice that OFHEO may further reclassify the Enterprise under § 1777.23(c), without additional notice.
(iii) Notices proposing to classify or reclassify an Enterprise as significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized may be combined with a notice under § 1777.24 that OFHEO intends to issue an order under section 1366 of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4616).
(iv) Notices proposing to classify an Enterprise as undercapitalized or significantly undercapitalized may be combined with a notice proposing to simultaneously reclassify the Enterprise under § 1777.20(a)(5) or § 1777.20(c)(5).
(2)
Response by the Enterprise.
The Enterprise may submit a response to OFHEO containing information for OFHEO's consideration in classifying or reclassifying the Enterprise.
(i) The Enterprise may, within thirty calendar days from receipt of a notice of proposed capital classification, submit a response to OFHEO, unless OFHEO determines the condition of the Enterprise requires a shorter period or the Enterprise consents to a shorter period.
(ii) The Enterprise's response period may be extended for up to an additional thirty calendar days if OFHEO determines there is good cause for such extension.
(iii) The Enterprise's failure to submit a response during the response period (as extended or shortened, if applicable) shall waive any right of the Enterprise to comment on or object to the proposed capital classification.
(3)
Classification determination and written notice of capital classification.
After the Enterprise has submitted its response under paragraph (a)(2) of this section or the response period (as extended or shortened, if applicable) has expired, whichever occurs first, OFHEO
will make its determination of the Enterprise's capital classification, taking into consideration such relevant information as is provided by the Enterprise in its response, if any, under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. OFHEO will provide the Enterprise with a written notice of capital classification, which shall include a description of the basis for OFHEO's determination.
(4)
Timing.
OFHEO may, in its discretion, issue a notice of proposed capital classification to an Enterprise at any time. If a notice of proposed classification is pending (under the process set out in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section) at that time, OFHEO may, in its discretion, specify whether the subsequent notice of proposed capital classification supersedes the pending notice.
(b)
Developments warranting possible change to capital classification
—(1)
Notice to OFHEO.
An Enterprise shall promptly provide OFHEO with written notice of any material development that would result in the Enterprise's core or total capital to fall to a point causing the Enterprise to be placed in a lower capital classification than the capital classification assigned to the Enterprise in its most recent notice of capital classification from OFHEO, or than is proposed to be assigned in the Enterprise's most recent notice of proposed capital classification from OFHEO. The Enterprise shall deliver such notice to OFHEO no later than ten calendar days after the Enterprise becomes aware of such development.
(2) OFHEO, in its discretion, will determine whether to issue a new notice of proposed capital classification under paragraph (a) of this section, based on OFHEO's review of the notice under paragraph (b)(1) of this section from the Enterprise and any other information deemed relevant by OFHEO.
§ 1777.22
Limitation on capital distributions.
(a)
Capital distributions in general.
An Enterprise shall make no capital distribution that would decrease the total capital of the Enterprise to an amount less than the risk-based capital level or the core capital of the Enterprise to an amount less than the minimum capital level without the prior written approval of OFHEO.
(b)
Capital distributions by an Enterprise that is not adequately capitalized
—(1)
Prohibited distributions.
An Enterprise that is not classified as adequately capitalized shall make no capital distribution that would result in the Enterprise being classified into a lower capital classification than the one to which it is classified at the time of such distribution.
(2)
Restricted distributions.
An Enterprise classified as significantly or critically undercapitalized shall make no capital distribution without the prior written approval of OFHEO. OFHEO may grant a request for such a capital distribution only if OFHEO determines, in its discretion, that the distribution:
(i) Will enhance the ability of the Enterprise to meet the risk-based capital level and the minimum capital level promptly;
(ii) Will contribute to the long-term financial safety and soundness of the Enterprise; or
(iii) Is otherwise in the public interest.
§ 1777.23
Capital restoration plans.
(a)
Schedule for filing plans
—(1)
In general.
An Enterprise shall file a capital restoration plan in writing with OFHEO within ten days of receiving a notice of capital classification under § 1777.21(a)(3) stating that the Enterprise is classified as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized, unless OFHEO in its discretion determines an extension of the ten-day period is necessary and provides the Enterprise with written notice of the date the plan is due.
(2)
Successive capital classifications.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an Enterprise that has already submitted and is operating under a capital restoration plan approved by OFHEO under this part is not required to submit an additional capital restoration plan based on a subsequent notice of capital classification, unless OFHEO notifies the Enterprise that it must submit a new or amended capital restoration plan. An Enterprise that receives such a notice to submit a new or amended capital restoration plan shall file in writing with OFHEO a
complete plan that is responsive to the terms of and within the deadline specified in such notice.
(b)
Contents of capital restoration plan.
(1) The capital restoration plan submitted under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section shall:
(i) Specify the level of capital the Enterprise will achieve and maintain;
(ii) Describe the actions that the Enterprise will take to become classified as adequately capitalized;
(iii) Establish a schedule for completing the actions set forth in the plan;
(iv) Specify the types and levels of activities (including existing and new programs) in which the Enterprise will engage during the term of the plan;
(v) Describe the actions that the Enterprise will take to comply with any mandatory or discretionary requirements to be imposed under Subtitle B of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4611 through 4623) or subpart B of this part;
(vi) To the extent the Enterprise is required to submit or revise a capital restoration plan as the result of a reclassification of the Enterprise under § 1777.20(a)(5) or § 1777.20(c)(5), describe the steps the Enterprise will take to cease or eliminate and remedy the action, inaction, or conditions that caused the reclassification; and
(vii) Provide any other information or discuss any other issues as instructed by OFHEO.
(2) The plan shall include a declaration by the chief executive officer, treasurer, or other officer designated by the Board of Directors of the Enterprise to make such declaration, that the material contained in the plan is true and correct to the best of such officer's knowledge and belief.
(c)
Failure to submit
—(1)
Failure to submit; submission of unacceptable plan.
If, upon the expiration of the period provided in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section for an Enterprise to submit a capital restoration plan, an Enterprise fails to comply with the requirement to file a complete capital restoration plan, or if the capital restoration plan is disapproved after review under paragraph (d) of this section, OFHEO may, in accordance with § 1777.21(a)(1)(ii) without additional notice, reclassify the Enterprise:
(i) As significantly undercapitalized if it is otherwise classified as undercapitalized; or
(ii) As critically undercapitalized if it is otherwise classified as significantly undercapitalized.
(2)
Duration of reclassification.
An Enterprise's failure to submit an approved capital restoration plan as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall continue to be grounds for reclassification at each subsequent capital classification of the Enterprise, and shall only cease being considered grounds for reclassification after the Enterprise files a capital restoration plan that receives OFHEO's approval under paragraph (d) of this section.
(3)
Successive reclassifications.
If an Enterprise has not remedied its failure to file a complete capital restoration plan or an acceptable capital restoration plan within such period as is determined by OFHEO to be appropriate, OFHEO may consider such failure to be the basis for additional reclassification under paragraph (c)(1) of this section into a lower capital classification. Such reclassification may be made without additional notice in accordance with § 1777.21(a)(1)(ii).
(d)
Order approving or disapproving plan.
Not later than thirty calendar days after receipt of the Enterprise's complete or amended capital restoration plan under this section (subject to extension upon written notice to the Enterprise for an additional thirty calendar days as OFHEO deems necessary), OFHEO shall issue an order to the Enterprise approving or disapproving the plan. An order disapproving a plan shall include the reasons therefore.
(e)
Resubmission.
An Enterprise that receives an order disapproving its capital restoration plan shall submit an amended capital plan acceptable to OFHEO within thirty calendar days of the date of such order, or a longer period if OFHEO determines an extension is in the public interest.
(f)
Amendment.
An Enterprise that has received an order approving its capital restoration plan may amend the capital restoration plan only after written notice to OFHEO and OFHEO's written approval of the modification. Pending OFHEO's review and approval
of the amendment in OFHEO's discretion, the Enterprise shall continue to implement the capital restoration plan under the original approval order.
(g)
Termination
—(1)
Termination under the terms of the plan.
An Enterprise that has received an order approving its capital restoration plan remains bound by each of its obligations under the plan until each such obligation terminates under express terms of the plan itself identifying a date, event, or condition upon which such obligation shall terminate.
(2)
Termination orders.
To the extent the plan does not include such express terms for any obligation thereunder, the Enterprise's obligation continues until OFHEO issues an order terminating such obligation under the plan. The Enterprise may also submit a written request to OFHEO seeking termination of such obligations. OFHEO will approve termination of such obligation to the extent that OFHEO determines, in its discretion, that the obligation's purpose under the plan has been fulfilled and that termination of the obligation is consistent with the overall safety and soundness of the Enterprise.
(h)
Implementation
—(1) An Enterprise that has received an order approving its capital restoration plan is required to implement the plan.
(i) If OFHEO determines, in its discretion, that an Enterprise has failed to make, in good faith, reasonable efforts necessary to comply with the capital restoration plan and fulfill the schedule thereunder, OFHEO may reclassify the Enterprise:
(A) As significantly undercapitalized if it is otherwise classified as undercapitalized; or
(B) As critically undercapitalized if it is otherwise classified as significantly undercapitalized.
(ii)
Duration of reclassification.
An Enterprise's failure to implement an approved capital restoration plan as described in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section shall continue to be grounds for reclassification at each subsequent capital classification of the Enterprise, and shall only cease being considered grounds for reclassification after OFHEO determines, in its discretion, that the Enterprise is making such efforts as are reasonably necessary to comply with the capital restoration plan and fulfill the schedule thereunder.
(iii)
Successive reclassifications.
If an Enterprise has not remedied its failure to implement an approved capital restoration plan within such period as is determined by OFHEO to be appropriate, OFHEO may consider such failure to be the basis for additional reclassification under paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section into a lower capital classification.
(2)
Administrative enforcement action.
A capital plan that has received an approval order from OFHEO under this section shall constitute an order under the 1992 Act. An Enterprise, regardless of its capital classification, as well as its executive officers, and directors may be subject to action by OFHEO under sections 1371, 1372, and 1376 of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4631, 4632, and 4636) and 12 CFR part 1780 for failure to comply with such plan.
§ 1777.24
Notice of intent to issue an order.
(a)
Orders under section 1366 of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4616).
In addition to any other action taken under this part, part 1780 of this chapter, or any other applicable authority, OFHEO may, in its discretion, issue an order to an Enterprise that is classified as significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized, or is in conservatorship, directing the Enterprise to take one or more of the following actions:
(1) Limit any increase in, or reduce, any obligations of the Enterprise, including off-balance sheet obligations;
(2) Limit or eliminate growth of the Enterprise's assets or reduce the amount of the Enterprise's assets;
(3) Acquire new capital, in such form and amount as determined by OFHEO; or
(4) Terminate, reduce, or modify any activity of the Enterprise that OFHEO determines creates excessive risk to the Enterprise.
(b)
Notice of intent to issue an order.
Before OFHEO issues an order to an Enterprise pursuant to section 1366 of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4616), OFHEO will provide the Enterprise with written notice containing the proposed order.
(c)
Contents of notice.
A notice of intent to issue an order under this subpart shall include:
(1) A statement of the Enterprise's capital classification and its minimum capital level or critical capital level, and its risk-based capital level;
(2) A description of the restrictions, prohibitions, or affirmative actions that OFHEO proposes to impose or require; and
(3) The proposed date when such restrictions or prohibitions would become effective or the proposed date for the commencement and/or completion of the affirmative actions.
§ 1777.25
Response to notice.
(a)
Content of response.
The Enterprise may submit a response to OFHEO containing information for OFHEO's consideration in connection with the proposed order. The response should include, but is in no way limited to, the following:
(1) Any relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other information the Enterprise wishes OFHEO to consider in support of the Enterprise's position regarding the proposed order; and
(2) Any recommended modification to the proposed order, and justification thereof.
(b)
Time to respond.
The Enterprise may, within thirty calendar days after receipt of the notice of proposed order, submit a response to OFHEO, unless OFHEO determines a shorter period to be appropriate or the Enterprise consents to a shorter period. OFHEO may extend the Enterprise's response period for up to an additional thirty calendar days if OFHEO determines, in its discretion, that there is good cause for such extension.
(c)
Waiver and consent.
The Enterprise's failure to submit a response during the response period (as extended or shortened, if applicable) shall waive any right of the Enterprise to comment on or object to the proposed order.
§ 1777.26
Final notice of order.
(a)
Determination and notice.
After the Enterprise has submitted its response under § 1777.25 or the response period (as extended or shortened, if applicable) has expired, whichever occurs first, OFHEO will determine, in its discretion, whether to take into consideration such relevant information as is provided by the Enterprise in its response, if any, under § 1777.25. OFHEO will provide the Enterprise with a written final notice of any order issued by OFHEO under this subpart, which is to include a description of the basis for OFHEO's determination.
(b)
Termination or modification.
An Enterprise that has received an order under paragraph (a) of this section remains subject to each provision of the order until each such provision terminates under the express terms of the order. The Enterprise may submit a written request to OFHEO seeking modification or termination of one or more provisions of the order. Pending OFHEO's review and approval, in OFHEO's discretion of the Enterprise's request, the Enterprise shall remain subject to the provisions of the order.
(c)
Enforcement of order
—(1)
Judicial enforcement.
An order issued under paragraph (a) of this section is an order for purposes of section 1375 of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4635). An Enterprise in any capital classification may be subject to enforcement of such order in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia pursuant to such section.
(2)
Administrative enforcement.
An order issued under paragraph (a) of this section constitutes an order under the 1992 Act. An Enterprise, regardless of its capital classification, as well as its executive officers and directors may be subject to action by OFHEO under sections 1371, 1372, and 1376 of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4631, 4632, and 4636) and 12 CFR part 1780 for failure to comply with such order.
§ 1777.27
Exhaustion and review.
(a)
Judicial review
—(1)
Review of certain actions.
An Enterprise that is not classified as critically undercapitalized may seek judicial review of a final notice of capital classification issued pursuant to § 1777.21(a)(3) or a final notice of order issued pursuant to § 1777.26(a) in accordance with section 1369D of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4623)
(2)
Other review barred.
Except as set out in paragraph (a)(1) of this section,
or review of conservatorship appointments to the limited extent provided in section 1369(b) of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4619(b)) and § 1777.28(c), no court shall have jurisdiction to affect, by injunction or otherwise, the issuance or effectiveness of a capital classification or any other action of OFHEO pursuant to this subpart B, as provided in section 1369D of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4623).
(b)
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
In connection with any issue for which an Enterprise seeks judicial review in connection with an action described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Enterprise must have first exhausted its administrative remedies, by presenting all its objections, arguments, and information relating to such issue for OFHEO's consideration pursuant to § 1777.21(a)(2), as part of the Enterprise's response to OFHEO's notice of capital classification, or pursuant to § 1777.25, as part of the Enterprise's response to OFHEO's notice of intent to issue an order.
(c)
No stay pending review.
The commencement of proceedings for judicial review of a final capital classification or order as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not operate as a stay thereof.
§ 1777.28
Appointment of conservator for a significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized Enterprise.
(a)
Significantly undercapitalized Enterprise.
At any time after an Enterprise is classified as significantly undercapitalized, OFHEO may issue an order appointing a conservator for the Enterprise upon determining that:
(1) The amount of core capital of the Enterprise is less than the minimum capital level; and
(2) The alternative remedies available to OFHEO under the 1992 Act are not satisfactory.
(b)
Critically undercapitalized Enterprise
—(1)
Appointment upon classification.
Not later than thirty days after issuing a final notice of capital classification pursuant to § 1777.21(a)(3) classifying an Enterprise as significantly undercapitalized, OFHEO shall issue an order appointing a conservator for the Enterprise.
(2)
Exception.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, OFHEO may determine not to appoint a conservator if OFHEO makes a written finding, with the written concurrence of the Secretary of the Treasury, that:
(i) The appointment of a conservator would have serious adverse effects on economic conditions of national financial markets or on the financial stability of the housing finance market; and
(ii) The public interest would be better served by taking some other enforcement action authorized under this title.
(c)
Judicial review.
An Enterprise for which a conservator has been appointed pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section may seek judicial review of the appointment in accordance with section 1369(b) of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4619(b)). Except as provided therein, no court may take any action regarding the removal of a conservator or otherwise restrain or affect the exercise of the powers or functions of a conservator.
(d)
Termination
—(1)
Upon reaching the minimum capital level.
OFHEO will issue an order terminating a conservatorship appointment under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section upon a determination that the Enterprise has maintained an amount of core capital that is equal to or exceeds the minimum capital level.
(2)
In OFHEO's discretion.
OFHEO may, in its discretion, issue an order terminating a conservatorship appointment under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section upon a determination that such termination order is in the public interest and may safely be accomplished.
PARTS 1778-1799 [RESERVED]
12 CFR Ch. XVIII (1-1-25 Edition)
Comm. Devel. Fin. Insts. Fund, Treas. Dept.

# CHAPTER XVIII—COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS FUND, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
Part
Page
1800-1804
[Reserved]
1805
Community Development Financial Institutions Program
771
1806
Bank Enterprise Award Program
789
1807
Capital Magnet Fund
801
1808
Community Development Financial Institutions Bond Guarantee Program
820
1815
Environmental quality
851
1816-1899
[Reserved]
PARTS 1800-1804 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1805

# PART 1805—COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS PROGRAM
Sec.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
1805.100
Purpose.
1805.101
Summary.
1805.102
Relationship to other CDFI Fund programs.
1805.103
Recipient not instrumentality.
1805.104
Definitions.
1805.105
Uniform Requirements; Waiver authority.
1805.106
OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Eligibility
1805.200
Applicant eligibility.
1805.201
Certification as a Community Development Financial Institution.

# Subpart C—Use of Funds/Eligible Activities
1805.300
Purposes of financial assistance.
1805.301
Eligible activities.
1805.302
Restrictions on use of assistance.
1805.303
Technical assistance.

# Subpart D—Investment Instruments
1805.400
Investment instruments—general.
1805.401
Forms of investment instruments.
1805.402
Assistance limits.
1805.403
Authority to sell.

# Subpart E—Matching Funds Requirements
1805.500
Matching funds—general.
1805.501
Comparability of form and value.
1805.502
Severe constraints waiver.
1805.503
Time frame for raising match.
1805.504
Retained earnings.

# Subpart F—Applications for Assistance
1805.600
Notice of Funds Availability.

# Subpart G—Evaluation and Selection of Applications
1805.700
Evaluation and selection—general.
1805.701
Evaluation of applications.

# Subpart H—Terms and Conditions of Assistance
1805.800
Safety and soundness.
1805.801
Assistance Agreement; sanctions.
1805.802
Payment of funds.
1805.803
Data collection and reporting.
1805.804
Information.
1805.805
Compliance with government requirements.
1805.806
Conflict of interest requirements.
1805.807
Lobbying restrictions.
1805.808
Criminal provisions.
1805.809
CDFI Fund deemed not to control.
1805.810
Limitation on liability.
1805.811
Fraud, waste and abuse.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 4703, 4703 note, 4710, 4717; and 31 U.S.C. 321.

# Source:
80 FR 52382, Aug. 31, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1805.100
Purpose.
The purpose of the Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Program is to promote economic revitalization and community development through investment in and assistance to Community Development Financial Institutions.
§ 1805.101
Summary.
Through the Community Development Financial Institutions Program, the CDFI Fund provides financial and technical assistance to Recipients selected by the CDFI Fund in order to enhance their ability to provide Financial Products, Financial Services and Development Services to and in their Target Markets. Each Recipient must serve an Investment Area(s), a Targeted Population(s), or both. The CDFI Fund will select Recipients to receive financial or technical assistance through a merit-based, qualitative application process. Each Recipient must enter into an Assistance Agreement that requires it to achieve specific performance goals and abide by other terms and conditions pertinent to any assistance received under this part, as well as the Uniform Requirements, as applicable. All CDFI Program awards shall be made subject to funding availability.
§ 1805.102
Relationship to other CDFI Fund programs.
Restrictions on applying for, receiving, and using CDFI Program awards in conjunction with awards under other programs administered by the CDFI Fund (including, but not limited to, the Bank Enterprise Award Program, the Capital Magnet Fund, the CDFI
Bond Guarantee Program, the Native American CDFI Assistance (NACA) Program, and the New Markets Tax Credit Program) are as set forth in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability, Notice of Guarantee Availability, or Notice of Allocation Availability.
§ 1805.103
Recipient not instrumentality.
No Recipient (or its Community Partner) shall be deemed to be an agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States.
§ 1805.104
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part, the following terms shall have the following definitions:
Act
means the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4701
et se.
);
Affiliate
means any company or entity that Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common Control with another company;
Applicant
means any entity submitting an application for CDFI Program assistance or funding under this part;
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency
has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)), and includes, with respect to Insured Credit Unions, the National Credit Union Administration;
Appropriate State Agency
means an agency or instrumentality of a State that regulates and/or insures the member accounts of a State-Insured Credit Union;
Assistance Agreement
means a formal agreement between the CDFI Fund and a Recipient, which agreement specifies the terms and conditions of assistance under this part;
Community Development Financial Institution
(or
CDFI
) means an entity currently meeting the requirements described in § 1805.201;
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
(or
CDFI Fund
) means the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund established pursuant to section 104(a) (12 U.S.C. 4703(a)) of the Act;
Community Development Financial Institution Intermediary
(or
CDFI Intermediary
) means an entity that meets the CDFI Program eligibility requirements described in § 1805.200 and whose primary business activity is the provision of Financial Products to CDFIs and/or emerging CDFIs;
Community Development Financial Institutions Program
(or
CDFI Program
) means the program authorized by sections 105-108 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 4704-4707) and implemented under this part;
Community Facility
means a facility where health care, childcare, educational, cultural, or social services are provided;
Community-Governed
means an entity in which the residents of an Investment Area(s) or members of a Targeted Population(s) represent greater than 50 percent of the governing body;
Community-Owned
means an entity in which the residents of an Investment Area(s) or members of a Targeted Population(s) have an aggregate ownership interest of greater than 50 percent;
Community Partner
means a person (other than an individual) that provides loans, Equity Investments, or Development Services and enters into a Community Partnership with an Applicant or a Recipient. A Community Partner may include a Depository Institution Holding Company, an Insured Depository Institution, an Insured Credit Union, a State-Insured Credit Union, a non-profit or for-profit organization, a State or local government entity, a quasi-government entity, or an investment company authorized pursuant to the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 661
et se.
);
Community Partnership
means an agreement between an Applicant or Recipient and a Community Partner to provide collaboratively Financial Products and/or Financial Services or Development Services to an Investment Area(s) or a Targeted Population(s);
Comprehensive Business Plan
means a document, covering not less than the next five years, that demonstrates that the Applicant will be properly managed and will have the capacity to operate as a CDFI that will not be dependent upon assistance from the CDFI Fund for continued viability, and that meets the requirements described in an applicable Notice of Funds Availability;
Control or Controlling
means:
(1) Ownership, control, or power to vote 25 percent or more of the outstanding shares of any class of Voting Securities of any company, directly or indirectly or acting through one or more other persons;
(2) Control in any manner over the election of a majority of the directors, trustees, or general partners (or individuals exercising similar functions) of any company; or
(3) Power to exercise, directly or indirectly, a controlling influence over the management, credit or investment decisions, or policies of any company.
Depository Institution Holding Company
means a bank holding company or a savings and loan holding company as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(w)(1));
Development Services
means activities undertaken by a CDFI, its Affiliate or contractor that promote community development and shall prepare or assist current or potential borrowers or investees to use the CDFI's Financial Products or Financial Services. For example, such activities include, financial or credit counseling; homeownership counseling; and business planning and management assistance;
Equity Investment
means an investment made by a CDFI that, in the judgment of the CDFI Fund, supports or enhances activities serving the CDFI's Investment Area(s) or a Targeted Population(s). Such investments must be made through an arms-length transaction with a third party that does not have a relationship with the CDFI as an Affiliate. Equity Investments may comprise a stock purchase, a purchase of a partnership interest, a purchase of a limited liability company membership interest, a loan made on such terms that it has sufficient characteristics of equity (and is considered as such by the CDFI Fund); a purchase of secondary capital, or any other investment deemed by the CDFI Fund to be an Equity Investment;
Financial Products
means loans, Equity Investments and similar financing activities (as determined by the CDFI Fund) including the purchase of loans originated by certified CDFIs and the provision of loan guarantees; in the case of CDFI Intermediaries, Financial Products may also include loans to CDFIs and/or emerging CDFIs and deposits in Insured Credit Union CDFIs, emerging Insured Credit Union CDFIs, and/or State-Insured Credit Union CDFIs;
Financial Services
means providing checking, savings accounts, check cashing, money orders, certified checks, automated teller machines, deposit taking, safe deposit box services, and other similar services;
Indian Reservation
means any geographic area that meets the requirements of section 4(10) of the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 1903(10)), and shall include: land held by incorporated Native groups, regional corporations, and village corporations, as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602); public domain Indian allotments; and former Indian reservations in the State of Oklahoma;
Indian Tribe
means any Indian Tribe, band, pueblo, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation, as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601
et se.
). Each such Indian Tribe must be recognized as eligible for special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians;
Insider
means any director, officer, employee, principal shareholder (owning, individually or in combination with family members, five percent or more of any class of stock), or agent (or any family member or business partner of any of the above) of any Applicant, Subsidiary, Affiliate, or Community Partner;
Insured CDFI
means a CDFI that is an Insured Depository Institution or an Insured Credit Union;
Insured Credit Union
means any credit union, the member accounts of which are insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund;
Insured Depository Institution
means any bank or thrift, the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
Investment Area
means a geographic area meeting the requirements of § 1805.201(b)(3);
Low-Income
means income, adjusted for family size, of not more than:
(1) For Metropolitan Areas, 80 percent of the area median family income; and
(2) For non-Metropolitan Areas, the greater of:
(i) 80 percent of the area median family income; or
(ii) 80 percent of the statewide non-Metropolitan Area median family income;
Metropolitan Area
means an area designated as such by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3504(e) and 31 U.S.C. 1104(d) and Executive Order 10253 (3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp., p. 758), as amended;
Non-Regulated CDFI
means any entity meeting the eligibility requirements described in § 1805.200 and that is not a Depository Institution Holding Company, Insured Depository Institution, Insured Credit Union, or State-Insured Credit Union;
Nonvoting Securities or Nonvoting Shares.
Preferred shares, limited partnership shares or interests, or similar interests are Nonvoting Securities if:
(1) Any voting rights associated with the shares or interest are limited solely to the type customarily provided by statute with regard to matters that would significantly and adversely affect the rights or preferences of the security or other interest, such as the issuance of additional amounts or classes of senior securities, the modification of the terms of the security or interest, the dissolution of the issuing company, or the payment of dividends by the issuing company when preferred dividends are in arrears:
(2) The shares or interest represent an essentially passive investment or financing device and do not otherwise provide the holder with control over the issuing company; and
(3) The shares or interest do not entitle the holder, by statute, charter, or in any manner, to select or to vote for the selection of directors, trustees, or partners (or persons exercising similar functions) of the issuing company.
Recipient
means an Applicant selected by the CDFI Fund to receive assistance pursuant to this part;
State
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia or any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands;
State-Insured Credit Union
means any credit union that is regulated by, and/or the member accounts of which are insured by, a State agency or instrumentality;
Subsidiary
means any company that is owned or Controlled directly or indirectly by another company and includes any service corporation owned in whole or part by an Insured Depository Institution or any Subsidiary of such a service corporation, except as provided in § 1805.200(b)(4);
Targeted Population
means individuals or an identifiable group of individuals meeting the requirements of § 1805.201(b)(3);
Target Market
means an Investment Area(s) and/or a Targeted Population(s);
Uniform Requirements
means the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards (2 CFR part 1000), which is the Department of the Treasury's codification of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) government-wide framework for grants management at 2 CFR part 200;
Voting Securities
means shares of common or preferred stock, general or limited partnership shares or interests, or similar interests if the shares or interest, by statute, charter, or in any manner, entitle the holder:
(1) To vote for or select directors, trustees, or partners (or persons exercising similar functions of the issuing company); or
(2) To vote on or to direct the conduct of the operations or other significant policies of the issuing company.
§ 1805.105
Uniform Requirements; Waiver authority.
(a)
Uniform Requirements.
The Uniform Requirements will be applied to all awards made pursuant to this part, as applicable.
(b)
Waiver authority.
The CDFI Fund may waive any requirement of this part that is not required by law upon a determination of good cause. Each such waiver shall be in writing and supported by a statement of the facts and
the grounds forming the basis of the waiver. For a waiver in an individual case, the CDFI Fund must determine that application of the requirement to be waived would adversely affect the achievement of the purposes of the Act. For waivers of general applicability, the CDFI Fund will publish notification of granted waivers in the
Federal Register
.
§ 1805.106
OMB control number.
The collection of information requirements in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget and assigned applicable, approved OMB Control Numbers associated with the CDFI Fund under 1559.

# Subpart B—Eligibility
§ 1805.200
Applicant eligibility.
(a)
General requirements.
(1) An entity that meets the requirements described in § 1805.201(b) and paragraph (b) of this section will be considered a CDFI and, subject to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, will be eligible to apply for assistance under this part.
(2)(i) An entity that proposes to become a CDFI is eligible to apply for assistance under this part if the CDFI Fund:
(A) Receives a complete application for certification from the entity within the time period set forth in an applicable Notice of Funds Availability; and
(B) Determines that such entity's application materials provide a realistic course of action to ensure that it will meet the requirements described in § 1805.201(b) and paragraph (b) of this section within the period set forth in an applicable Notice of Funds Availability.
(ii) The CDFI Fund will not, however, make a payment of any financial assistance to such an entity before or unless it meets the requirements described in this section. Moreover, notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the CDFI Fund reserves the right to require an entity to have been certified as described in § 1805.201(a) prior to its submission of an application for assistance, as set forth in an applicable Notice of Funds Availability.
(3) The CDFI Fund shall require an entity to meet any additional eligibility requirements that the CDFI Fund deems appropriate.
(4) The CDFI Fund, in its sole discretion, shall determine whether an entity fulfills the requirements set forth in this section and § 1805.201(b).
(b)
Provisions applicable to Depository Institution Holding Companies and Insured Depository Institutions.
(1) A Depository Institution Holding Company may qualify as a CDFI only if it and its Affiliates collectively satisfy the requirements described in this section.
(2) No Affiliate of a Depository Institution Holding Company may qualify as a CDFI unless the holding company and all of its Affiliates collectively meet the requirements described in this section.
(3) No Subsidiary of an Insured Depository Institution may qualify as a CDFI if the Insured Depository Institution and its Subsidiaries do not collectively meet the requirements described in this section.
(4) For the purposes of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, an entity will be considered to be a Subsidiary of any Insured Depository Institution or Depository Institution Holding Company that controls 25 percent or more of any class of the entity's voting shares, or otherwise controls, in any manner, the election of a majority of directors of the entity.
§ 1805.201
Certification as a Community Development Financial Institution.
(a)
General.
An entity may apply to the CDFI Fund for certification that it meets the CDFI eligibility requirements regardless of whether it is seeking financial or technical assistance from the CDFI Fund. Entities seeking such certification shall provide the information set forth in the application for certification. Certification by the CDFI Fund will verify that the entity meets the CDFI eligibility requirements. However, such certification shall not constitute an opinion by the CDFI Fund as to the financial viability of the CDFI or that the CDFI will be selected to receive an award from the CDFI Fund. The CDFI Fund, in its sole
discretion, shall have the right to decertify a certified entity after a determination that the eligibility requirements of paragraph (b) of this section or § 1805.200(b) are no longer met.
(b)
Eligibility verification.
An entity shall demonstrate whether it meets the eligibility requirements described in this paragraph (b) by providing the information described in the application for certification demonstrating that the entity meets the eligibility requirements described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section. The CDFI Fund, in its sole discretion, shall determine whether an entity has satisfied the requirements of this paragraph.
(1)
Primary mission.
A CDFI must have a primary mission of promoting community development. In determining whether an entity has such a primary mission, the CDFI Fund will consider whether the activities of the entity are purposefully directed toward improving the social and/or economic conditions of underserved people (which may include Low-Income persons or persons who lack adequate access to capital and/or Financial Services) and/or residents of economically distressed communities (which may include Investment Areas).
(2)
Financing entity.
(i) A CDFI shall be an entity whose predominant business activity is the provision, in arms-length transactions, of Financial Products and/or Financial Services. An entity may demonstrate that it meets this requirement if it is a(n):
(A) Depository Institution Holding Company;
(B) Insured Depository Institution, Insured Credit Union, or State-Insured Credit Union; or
(C) Organization that is deemed by the CDFI Fund to have such a predominant business activity as a result of analysis of its financial statements, organizing documents, and any other information required to be submitted as part of its certification application. In conducting such analysis, the CDFI Fund may take into consideration an entity's total assets and its use of personnel.
(ii) For the sole purpose of participating as an Eligible CDFI in the CDFI Bond Guarantee Program (see 12 CFR1808), an Affiliate of a Controlling CDFI may be deemed to meet the financing entity requirement of this section by relying on the CDFI Fund's determination that the Controlling CDFI has met said requirement; provided, however, that the CDFI Fund reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to set additional parameters and restrictions on such, which parameters and restrictions shall be set forth in the applicable Notice of Guarantee Availability for a CDFI Bond Guarantee Program application round.
(iii) Further, for the sole purpose of participating as an Eligible CDFI in the CDFI Bond Guarantee Program, the provision of Financial Products, Development Services, and/or other similar financing by an Affiliate of a Controlling CDFI need not be arms-length if such transaction is by and between the Affiliate and the Controlling CDFI, pursuant to an operating agreement that includes management and ownership provisions and is in form and substance acceptable to the CDFI Fund.
(3)
Target Market
—(i)
General.
A CDFI must serve a Target Market by virtue of serving one or more Investment Areas and/or Targeted Populations. An entity may demonstrate that it meets this requirement by demonstrating that it provides Financial Products and/or Financial Services in an Investment Areas and/or Targeted Populations as described in this section. An Investment Area shall meet specific geographic and other criteria described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, and a Targeted Population shall meet the criteria described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section.
(ii)
Investment Area
—(A)
General.
A geographic area will be considered eligible for designation as an Investment Area if it:
(
1
) Is entirely located within the geographic boundaries of the United States (which shall encompass any State of the United States, the District of Columbia or any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands); and either
(
2
) Meets at least one of the objective criteria of economic distress as set
forth in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(D) of this section and has significant unmet needs for loans, Equity Investments, Financial Products or Financial Services as described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(E) of this section; or
(
3
) Encompasses (
i.e.,
wholly consists of) or is wholly located within an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community designated under section 1391 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1391).
(B)
Geographic units.
Subject to the remainder of this paragraph (B), an Investment Area shall consist of a geographic unit that is a county (or equivalent area), minor civil division that is a unit of local government, incorporated place, census tract, or Indian Reservation. However, geographic units in Metropolitan Areas that are used to comprise an Investment Area shall be limited to census tracts, and Indian Reservations. An entity may designate one or more Investment Areas as part of a single certification application.
(C)
Designation.
An entity may designate an Investment Area by selecting:
(
1
) A geographic unit(s) that individually meets one of the criteria in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(D) of this section; or
(
2
) A group of contiguous geographic units that together meet one of the criteria in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(D) of this section, provided that the combined population residing within individual geographic units not meeting any such criteria does not exceed 15 percent of the total population of the entire Investment Area.
(D)
Distress criteria.
An Investment Area (or the units that comprise an area) must meet at least one of the following objective criteria of economic distress (as reported in the most recently completed decennial census published by the U.S. Bureau of the Census):
(
1
) The percentage of the population living in poverty is at least 20 percent;
(
2
) In the case of an Investment Area located:
(
i
) Within a Metropolitan Area, the median family income shall be at or below 80 percent of the Metropolitan Area median family income or the national Metropolitan Area median family income, whichever is greater; or
(
ii
) Outside of a Metropolitan Area, the median family income shall be at or below 80 percent of the statewide non-Metropolitan Area median family income or the national non-Metropolitan Area median family income, whichever is greater;
(
3
) The unemployment rate is at least 1.5 times the national average;
(
4
) In counties located outside of a Metropolitan Area, the county population loss during the period between the most recent decennial census and the previous decennial census is at least 10 percent; or
(
5
) In counties located outside of a Metropolitan Area, the county net migration loss during the five-year period preceding the most recent decennial census is at least five percent.
(E)
Unmet needs.
An Investment Area will be deemed to have significant unmet needs for loans or Equity Investments if a narrative analysis provided by the entity demonstrates a pattern of unmet needs for Financial Products or Financial Services within such area.
(F)
Serving Investment Areas.
An entity may serve an Investment Area directly or through borrowers or investees that serve the Investment Area.
(iii)
Targeted Population
—(A)
General.
Targeted Population shall mean individuals, or an identifiable group of individuals, who are Low-Income persons or lack adequate access to Financial Products or Financial Services in the entity's Target Market. The members of a Targeted Population shall reside within the boundaries of the United States (which shall encompass any State of the United States, the District of Columbia or any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands).
(B)
Serving Targeted Populations.
An entity may serve the members of a Targeted Population directly or indirectly or through borrowers or investees that directly serve such members.
(4)
Development Services.
A CDFI directly, through an Affiliate, or through a contract with another provider, must
have a track record of providing Development Services in conjunction with its Financial Products and/or Financial Services. An entity applying for CDFI certification must demonstrate that it meets this requirement.
(5)
Accountability.
A CDFI must maintain accountability to residents of its Investment Area(s) or Targeted Population(s) through representation on its governing board and/or advisory board(s). An entity applying for CDFI certification must demonstrate that it meets this requirement.
(6)
Non-government.
A CDFI shall not be an agency or instrumentality of the United States, or any State or political subdivision thereof. An entity applying for CDFI certification must demonstrate that it meets this requirement. An entity that is created by, or that receives substantial assistance from, one or more government entities may be a CDFI provided it is not Controlled by such entities and maintains independent decision-making power over its activities.
(c)
Records and Review.
The CDFI Fund will review a CDFI's certification status from time to time, as deemed appropriate by the CDFI Fund, to ensure that it meets the certification requirements of this section, as well as review its organizational capacity, lending activity, community impacts, and such other information that the CDFI Fund deems appropriate. Upon request, a CDFI shall provide such information and documentation to the CDFI Fund as is necessary to undertake such review.

# Subpart C—Use of Funds/Eligible Activities
§ 1805.300
Purposes of financial assistance.
The CDFI Fund may provide financial assistance through investment instruments described under subpart D of this part. Such financial assistance is intended to increase available capital and enhance the ability of a Recipient to provide Financial Products, Financial Services, and Development Services.
§ 1805.301
Eligible activities.
Recipients may use financial assistance provided under this part to serve Investment Area(s) or Targeted Population(s) by developing or supporting, through lending, investing, enhancing liquidity, or other means of finance:
(a) Commercial facilities that promote revitalization, community stability or job creation or retention;
(b) Businesses that:
(1) Provide jobs for Low-Income persons;
(2) Are owned by Low-Income persons; or
(3) Increase the availability of products and services to Low-Income persons;
(c) Community Facilities;
(d) The provision of Financial Services;
(e) Housing that is principally affordable to Low-Income persons, except that assistance used to facilitate homeownership shall only be used for services and lending products that serve Low-Income persons and that:
(1) Are not provided by other lenders in the area; or
(2) Complement the services and lending products provided by other lenders that serve the Investment Area(s) or Targeted Population(s);
(f) The provision of consumer loans (a loan to one or more individuals for household, family, or other personal expenditures); or
(g) Other businesses or activities as requested by the Applicant and deemed appropriate by the CDFI Fund.
§ 1805.302
Restrictions on use of assistance.
(a) A Recipient shall use assistance provided by the CDFI Fund and its corresponding matching funds only for the eligible activities approved by the CDFI Fund and described in the Assistance Agreement.
(b) A Recipient may not distribute assistance to an Affiliate without the CDFI Fund's consent.
(c) Assistance provided upon approval of an application involving a Community Partnership shall only be distributed to the Recipient and shall not be used to fund any activities carried out by a Community Partner or an Affiliate of a Community Partner.
§ 1805.303
Technical assistance.
(a)
General.
The CDFI Fund may provide technical assistance to build the capacity of a CDFI or an entity that proposes to become a CDFI. Such technical assistance may include: training for management and other personnel; development of programs, products and services; improving financial management and internal operations; enhancing a CDFI's community impact; or other activities deemed appropriate by the CDFI Fund. The CDFI Fund, in its sole discretion, may provide technical assistance in amounts or under terms and conditions that are different from those requested by an Applicant or Recipient. The CDFI Fund may not provide any technical assistance funding to an Applicant for the purpose of assisting in the preparation of an application for federal assistance. The CDFI Fund may provide technical assistance to a CDFI directly, through grants, or by contracting with organizations that possess the appropriate expertise.
(b) The CDFI Fund may provide technical assistance regardless of whether the Recipient also receives financial assistance under this part. Technical assistance provided pursuant to this part is subject to the assistance limits described in § 1805.402.
(c) An Applicant seeking technical assistance must meet the eligibility requirements described in § 1805.200 and submit an application as described in § 1805.600.
(d) Applicants for technical assistance pursuant to this part will be evaluated pursuant to the merit-based qualitative review criteria in subpart G of this part, except as otherwise may be provided in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability. In addition, the requirements for matching funds are not applicable to technical assistance requests.

# Subpart D—Investment Instruments
§ 1805.400
Investment instruments—general.
The CDFI Fund will provide financial assistance to a Recipient through one or more of the investment instruments described in § 1805.401, and under such terms and conditions as described in this subpart D. The CDFI Fund, in its sole discretion, may provide financial assistance in amounts, through investment instruments, or under rates, terms and conditions that are different from those requested by an Applicant.
§ 1805.401
Forms of investment instruments.
(a)
Equity.
The CDFI Fund may make non-voting equity investments in a Recipient, including, without limitation, the purchase of non-voting stock. Such stock shall be transferable and, in the discretion of the CDFI Fund, may provide for convertibility to voting stock upon transfer. The CDFI Fund shall not own more than 50 percent of the equity of a Recipient and shall not control its operations.
(b)
Grants.
The CDFI Fund may award grants.
(c)
Loans.
The CDFI Fund may make loans, if and as permitted by applicable law and regulation.
(d)
Deposits and credit union shares.
The CDFI Fund may make deposits (which shall include credit union shares) in Insured CDFIs and State-Insured Credit Unions. Deposits in an Insured CDFI or a State-Insured Credit Union shall not be subject to any requirement for collateral or security.
§ 1805.402
Assistance limits.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Fund may not provide, pursuant to this part, more than $5 million, in the aggregate, in financial and technical assistance to a Recipient and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates during any three-year period.
(b)
Additional amounts.
If a Recipient proposes to establish a new Subsidiary or Affiliate to serve an Investment Area(s) or Targeted Population(s) outside of any State, and outside of any Metropolitan Area, currently served by the Recipient or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, the Recipient may receive additional assistance pursuant to this Part up to a maximum of $3.75 million during the same three-year period. Such additional assistance:
(1) Shall be used only to finance activities in the new or expanded Investment Area(s) or Targeted Population(s); and
(2) Must be distributed to a new Subsidiary or Affiliate that meets the eligibility requirements described in § 1805.200 and is selected for assistance pursuant to subpart G of this part.
(c) A Recipient may receive the assistance described in paragraph (b) of this section only if no other application to serve substantially the same Investment Area(s) or Targeted Population(s) that meets the requirements of § 1805.701(a) was submitted to the CDFI Fund prior to the receipt of the application of said Recipient and within the current funding round.
§ 1805.403
Authority to sell.
The CDFI Fund may, at any time, sell its equity investments and loans, provided the CDFI Fund shall retain the authority to enforce the provisions of the Assistance Agreement until the performance goals specified therein have been met.

# Subpart E—Matching Funds Requirements
§ 1805.500
Matching funds—general.
All financial assistance awarded under this part shall be matched with funds from sources other than the Federal government. Except as provided in § 1805.502, such matching funds shall be provided on the basis of not less than one dollar for each dollar provided by the CDFI Fund. Funds that have been used to satisfy a legal requirement for obtaining funds under either the CDFI Program or another Federal grant or award program may not be used to satisfy the matching requirements described in this section. Community Development Block Grant Program and other funds provided pursuant to the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.
), shall be considered Federal government funds and shall not be used to meet the matching requirements. Matching funds shall be used as provided in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability and/or the corresponding Assistance Agreement. Funds that are used prior to the execution of the Assistance Agreement may nevertheless qualify as matching funds provided they were used as provided in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability and/or Assistance Agreement.
§ 1805.501
Comparability of form and value.
(a) Matching funds shall be at least comparable in form (
e.g.,
equity investments, deposits, credit union shares, loans and grants) and value to financial assistance provided by the CDFI Fund (except as provided in § 1805.502). The CDFI Fund shall have the discretion to determine whether matching funds pledged are comparable in form and value to the financial assistance requested.
(b) In the case of a Recipient that raises matching funds from more than one source, through different investment instruments, or under varying terms and conditions, the CDFI Fund may provide financial assistance in a manner that represents the combined characteristics of such instruments.
(c) A Recipient may meet all or part of its matching requirements by committing available earnings retained from its operations.
§ 1805.502
Severe constraints waiver.
(a) In the case of an Applicant with severe constraints on available sources of matching funds, the CDFI Fund, in its sole discretion, may permit such Applicant to comply with the matching requirements by:
(1) Reducing such requirements by up to 50 percent; or
(2) Permitting an Applicant to provide matching funds in a form to be determined at the discretion of the CDFI Fund, if such an Applicant:
(i) Has total assets of less than $100,000;
(ii) Serves an area that is not a Metropolitan Area; and
(iii) Is not requesting more than $25,000 in assistance.
(b) Not more than 25 percent of the total funds available for obligation under this part in any fiscal year may be matched as described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The terms of the severe constraints waiver shall be provided in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability and Assistance Agreement.
§ 1805.503
Time frame for raising match.
Applicants and Recipients shall satisfy matching funds requirements within the period set forth in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability and/or the corresponding Assistance Agreement.
§ 1805.504
Retained earnings.
(a)
General.
An Applicant or Recipient may use its retained earnings to match a request for a financial assistance grant from the CDFI Fund. An Applicant or Recipient that proposes to meet all or a portion of its matching funds requirements by committing available retained earnings from its operations shall be subject to the restrictions described in this section. Retained earnings shall be calculated as directed by the CDFI Fund in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability, the financial assistance application, and/or related guidance materials. The CDFI Fund shall make the final determination of the eligible amount of retained earnings that an Applicant or Recipient has available as matching funds.
(b)
Applicants other than Insured Credit Unions, State-Insured Credit Unions and Insured Depository Institutions.
In the case of an Applicant or Recipient that is not an Insured Credit Union, State-Insured Credit Union or Insured Depository Institution, retained earnings that may be used for matching funds purposes shall consist of:
(1) The increase in retained earnings (meaning, for purposes of § 1805.504(b), revenue minus expenses less any dividend payments) that has occurred over the Applicant's or Recipient's fiscal year as set forth in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability; or
(2) The annual average of such increases that occurred over the Applicant's or Recipient's three consecutive fiscal years as set forth in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability.
(c)
Insured Credit Unions, State-Insured Credit Unions, and Insured Depository Institutions.
(1) In the case of an Applicant or Recipient that is an Insured Credit Union, State-Insured Credit Union or Insured Depository Institution, retained earnings that may be used for matching funds purposes shall consist of:
(i) The increase in retained earnings that has occurred over the Applicant's or Recipient's fiscal year as set forth in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability;
(ii) The annual average of such increases that has occurred over the Applicant's or Recipient's three consecutive fiscal years as set forth in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability; or
(iii) The entire retained earnings that have been accumulated since the inception of the Applicant or Recipient, provided that the Assistance Agreement shall require that:
(A) The Recipient shall increase its member shares, non-member shares, outstanding loans and/or other measurable activity as defined in and by an amount that is set forth in an applicable Notice of Funds Availability;
(B) Such increase must be achieved by a date certain set forth in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability;
(C) The level from which the achievement of said increases will be measured will be as of the date set forth in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability; and
(D) Financial assistance shall be paid by the CDFI Fund only as the amount of increases described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A) of this section is achieved.
(2) The CDFI Fund will allow an Applicant or Recipient to utilize the option described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section for matching funds only if it determines, in its sole discretion, that the Applicant or Recipient will have a high probability of success in achieving said increases to the specified amounts.

# Subpart F—Applications for Assistance
§ 1805.600
Notice of Funds Availability.
Each Applicant shall submit an application for financial or technical assistance under this part in accordance with the applicable Notice of Funds Availability published in the
Federal Register.
The Notice of Funds Availability will advise prospective Applicants on how to obtain an application packet and will establish deadlines and other requirements. The Notice of
Funds Availability may specify the application scoring criteria and any limitations, special rules, procedures, and restrictions for a particular funding round. After receipt of an application, the CDFI Fund may request clarifying or technical information on the materials submitted as part of such application.

# Subpart G—Evaluation and Selection of Applications
§ 1805.700
Evaluation and selection—general.
Applicants will be evaluated and selected, at the sole discretion of the CDFI Fund, to receive assistance based on a review process that may include an interview(s) and/or site visit(s) and that is intended to:
(a) Ensure that Applicants are evaluated on a merit basis and in a fair and consistent manner;
(b) Consider the unique characteristics of Applicants that vary by institution type, total asset size, stage of organizational development, markets served, products and services provided, and location;
(c) Ensure that each Recipient can successfully meet the goals of its Comprehensive Business Plan and achieve community development impact;
(d) Ensure that Recipients represent a geographically diverse group of Recipients serving Metropolitan Areas, non-Metropolitan Areas, and Indian Reservations from different regions of the United States; and
(e) Consider other factors as described in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability.
§ 1805.701
Evaluation of applications.
(a)
Eligibility and completeness.
An Applicant will not be eligible to receive assistance pursuant to this part if it fails to meet the eligibility requirements described in § 1805.200 or if it has not submitted complete application materials. For the purposes of this paragraph (a), the CDFI Fund reserves the right to request additional information from the Applicant, if the CDFI Fund deems it appropriate.
(b)
Substantive review.
In evaluating and selecting applications to receive assistance, the CDFI Fund will evaluate the feasibility of the Applicant's Comprehensive Business Plan goals, the likelihood of the Applicant meeting such goals, and the likelihood of the Applicant achieving its proposed community development impacts, by considering factors such as:
(1) Community development track record, including, in the case of an Applicant with a prior history of serving a Target Market, the extent of success in serving such Target Market and whether it will expand its operations into a new Investment Area or serve a new Targeted Population, offer more Development Services, Financial Products and/or Financial Services, or increase the volume of its current business;
(2) Operational capacity and risk mitigation strategies;
(3) Financial track record and strength;
(4) Capacity, skills, experience and background of the management team;
(5) Understanding of its market context, including an analysis of the needs of the Investment Area or Targeted Population and a strategy for how the Applicant will attempt to meet those needs; such analysis of current and prospective customers will include the extent of economic distress within the designated Investment Area(s) or the extent of need within the designated Targeted Population(s), as those factors are measured by objective criteria, the extent of need for Loans, Equity Investments, Financial Products, Financial Services and Development Services within the designated Target Market, and the extent of demand within the Target Market for the Applicant's products and services;
(6) Program design and implementation plan, including: A plan to coordinate use of a financial assistance award with existing Federal State, local and Tribal government assistance programs, and private sector financial services; A description of how the Applicant will coordinate with community organizations and financial institutions which will provide equity investments, loans, secondary markets, or other services to the Investment Area or Targeted Population; an assessment of its products and services,
marketing and outreach efforts, delivery strategy, and coordination with other institutions and/or a Community Partner, or participation in a secondary market for purposes of increasing the Applicant's resources. In the case of an Applicant submitting an application with a Community Partner, the CDFI Fund will evaluate: the extent to which the Community Partner will participate in carrying out the activities of the Community Partnership; the extent to which the Community Partner will enhance the likelihood of success of the Comprehensive Business Plan; and the extent to which service to the designated Target Market will be better performed by a Community Partnership than by the Applicant alone;
(7) Projections for financial performance, capitalization and the raising of needed external resources, including a detailed description of the Applicant's plans and likely sources of funds to match the amount of financial assistance requested from the CDFI Fund, the amount of firm commitments and matching funds in hand to meet or exceed the matching funds requirements and, if applicable, the likely success of the plan for raising the balance of the matching funds in a timely manner, the extent to which the matching funds are, or will be, derived from private sources, and whether an Applicant is, or will become, an Insured CDFI or a State-Insured Credit Union;
(8) Projections for community development impact, including the extent to which an Applicant will concentrate its activities on serving its Target Market(s), the extent of support from the designated Target Market, the extent to which an Applicant is, or will be, Community-Owned or Community-Governed, and the extent to which the activities proposed in the Comprehensive Business Plan are consistent with existing economic, community, and housing development plans adopted by or applicable to the Investment Area or Targeted Population and will expand economic opportunities or promote community development within the designated Target Market;
(9) The extent of need for the CDFI Fund's assistance, as demonstrated by the extent of economic distress in the Applicant's Target Market and the extent to which the Applicant needs the CDFI Fund's assistance to carry out its Comprehensive Business Plan;
(10) In the case of an Applicant that has previously received assistance under the CDFI Program, the CDFI Fund also will consider the Applicant's level of success in meeting its performance goals, financial soundness covenants (if applicable), and other requirements contained in the previously negotiated and executed Assistance Agreement(s) with the CDFI Fund, the unexpended balance of assistance, and whether the Applicant will, with additional assistance from the CDFI Fund, expand its operations into a new Target Market, offer more products or services, and/or increase the volume of its activities; and
(11) The CDFI Fund may consider any other factors, as it deems appropriate, in reviewing an application as set forth in an applicable Notice of Funds Availability.
(c)
Consultation with Appropriate Federal Banking Agencies.
The CDFI Fund will consult with, and consider the views of, the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency prior to providing assistance to:
(1) An Insured CDFI;
(2) A CDFI that is examined by or subject to the reporting requirements of an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency; or
(3) A CDFI that has as its Community Partner an institution that is examined by, or subject to, the reporting requirements of an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency.
(d)
Consultation with Appropriate State Agencies.
Prior to providing assistance to a State-Insured Credit Union, the CDFI Fund may consult with, and consider the views of, the Appropriate State Agency.
(e)
Recipient selection.
The CDFI Fund will select Recipients based on the criteria described in paragraph (b) of this section and any other criteria set forth in this part or the applicable Notice of Funds Availability.

# Subpart H—Terms and Conditions of Assistance
§ 1805.800
Safety and soundness.
(a)
Regulated institutions.
Nothing in this part, or in an Assistance Agreement, shall affect any authority of an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency to supervise and regulate any institution or company.
(b)
Non-Regulated CDFIs.
The CDFI Fund will, to the maximum extent practicable, ensure that Recipients that are Non-Regulated CDFIs are financially and managerially sound and maintain appropriate internal controls.
§ 1805.801
Assistance Agreement; sanctions.
(a) Prior to providing any Financial or Technical Assistance, the CDFI Fund and a Recipient shall execute an Assistance Agreement that requires a Recipient to comply with performance goals and abide by other terms and conditions of assistance. Such performance goals may be modified at any time by mutual consent of the CDFI Fund and a Recipient or as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. If a Community Partner or an Affiliate is part of an application that is selected for assistance, such partner must be a party to the Assistance Agreement, if deemed appropriate by the CDFI Fund.
(b) A Recipient shall comply with performance goals that have been established or negotiated with the CDFI Fund and which are based upon the Comprehensive Business Plan submitted as part of the Recipient's application. Such performance goals may include measures that require a Recipient to:
(1) Be financially sound;
(2) Be managerially sound;
(3) Maintain appropriate internal controls; and/or
(4) Achieve specific lending, investment, and development service objectives.
Performance goals for Insured CDFIs shall be determined in consultation with the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, as applicable. Such goals shall be incorporated in, and enforced under, the Recipient's Assistance Agreement. Performance goals for State-Insured Credit Unions may be determined in consultation with the Appropriate State Agency, if deemed appropriate by the CDFI Fund.
(c) The Assistance Agreement shall provide that, in the event of fraud, mismanagement, noncompliance with the Act and the CDFI Fund's regulations, or noncompliance with the terms and conditions of the Assistance Agreement on the part of the Recipient (or the Community Partner, if applicable), the CDFI Fund, in its discretion, may:
(1) Require changes in the performance goals set forth in the Assistance Agreement;
(2) Require changes in the Recipient's Comprehensive Business Plan;
(3) Revoke approval of the Recipient's application;
(4) Reduce or terminate the Recipient's assistance;
(5) Require repayment of any assistance that has been distributed to the Recipient;
(6) Bar the Recipient from reapplying for any assistance from the CDFI Fund; or
(7) Take such other actions as the CDFI Fund deems appropriate.
(d) In the case of an Insured CDFI, the Assistance Agreement shall provide that the provisions of the Act, this part, and the Assistance Agreement shall be enforceable under 12 U.S.C. 1818 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act by the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, as applicable, and that any violation of such provisions shall be treated as a violation of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Nothing in this paragraph (d) precludes the CDFI Fund from directly enforcing the Assistance Agreement as provided for under the terms of the Act.
(e) The CDFI Fund shall notify the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency before imposing any sanctions on an Insured CDFI or other institution that is examined by or subject to the reporting requirements of that agency. The CDFI Fund shall not impose a sanction described in paragraph (c) of this section if the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, in writing, and to the satisfaction of the CDFI Fund, not later than 30 calendar days after receiving notice from the CDFI Fund:
(1) Objects to the proposed sanction;
(2) Determines that the sanction would:
(i) Have a material adverse effect on the safety and soundness of the institution; or
(ii) Impede or interfere with an enforcement action against that institution by that agency;
(3) Proposes a comparable alternative action; and
(4) Specifically explains:
(i) The basis for the determination under paragraph (e)(2) of this section and, if appropriate, provides documentation to support the determination; and
(ii) How the alternative action suggested pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section would be as effective as the sanction proposed by the CDFI Fund in securing compliance and deterring future noncompliance.
(f) In reviewing the performance of a Recipient in which its Investment Area(s) includes an Indian Reservation or Targeted Population(s) includes an Indian Tribe, the CDFI Fund shall consult with, and seek input from, the appropriate tribal government.
(g) Prior to imposing any sanctions pursuant to this section or an Assistance Agreement, the CDFI Fund shall, to the maximum extent practicable, provide the Recipient (or the Community Partner, if applicable) with written notice of the proposed sanction and an opportunity to comment. Nothing in this section, however, shall provide a Recipient or Community Partner with the right to any formal or informal hearing or comparable proceeding not otherwise required by law.
§ 1805.802
Payment of funds.
Assistance provided pursuant to this part may be provided in a lump sum or over a period of time, as determined appropriate by the CDFI Fund. The CDFI Fund shall not provide any assistance under this part until a Recipient has satisfied any required conditions set forth in its Assistance Agreement and, if the Recipient is to receive financial assistance, the Recipient has secured in-hand and/or firm commitments for the matching funds required for such assistance pursuant to the applicable Notice of Funds Availability.
§ 1805.803
Data collection and reporting.
(a)
Data—General.
A Recipient shall maintain such records as may be prescribed by the CDFI Fund that are necessary to:
(1) Disclose the manner in which CDFI Fund assistance is used;
(2) Demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this part and an Assistance Agreement; and
(3) Evaluate the impact of the CDFI Program.
(b)
Customer profiles.
A Recipient (and a Community Partner, if appropriate) shall compile such data on the gender, race, ethnicity, national origin, or other information on individuals that utilize its products and services as the CDFI Fund shall prescribe in an Assistance Agreement. Such data will be used to determine whether residents of Investment Area(s) or members of Targeted Population(s) are adequately served and to evaluate the impact of the CDFI Program.
(c)
Access to records.
A Recipient (and a Community Partner, if appropriate) must submit such financial and activity reports, records, statements, and documents at such times, in such forms, and accompanied by such reporting data, as required by the CDFI Fund or the Department of the Treasury to ensure compliance with the requirements of this part and to evaluate the impact of the CDFI Program. The United States Government, including the Department of the Treasury, the Comptroller General, and their duly authorized representatives, shall have full and free access to the Recipient's offices and facilities and all books, documents, records, and financial statements relating to use of Federal funds and may copy such documents as they deem appropriate. The CDFI Fund, if it deems appropriate, may prescribe access to record requirements for entities that are borrowers of, or that receive investments from a Recipient.
(d)
Retention of records.
A Recipient shall comply with all record retention requirements as set forth in the Uniform Requirements (as applicable).
(e)
Data collection and reporting.
Each Recipient shall submit to the CDFI Fund information and documentation
that will permit the CDFI Fund to review the Recipient's progress (and the progress of its Affiliates, Subsidiaries, and/or Community Partners, if appropriate) in implementing its Comprehensive Business Plan and satisfying the terms and conditions of its Assistance Agreement. The information and documentation shall include, but not be limited to, an audit and an annual report, which shall comprise the following components:
(1)
Audits and Audited Financial Statements.
(i) All non-profit organizations that are required to have their financial statements audited pursuant to the Uniform Requirements, must submit their single-audits no later than nine months after the end of the Recipient's fiscal year. Non-profit organizations (excluding Insured CDFIs and State-Insured Credit Unions) that are not required to have financial statements audited pursuant to the Uniform Requirements, must submit to the CDFI Fund a statement signed by the Recipient's Authorized Representative or certified public accountant, asserting that the Recipient is not required to have a single audit pursuant to the Uniform Requirements as indicated in the Assistance Agreement. In such instances, the CDFI Fund may require additional audits to be performed as stated in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability.
(ii) For-profit organizations (excluding Insured CDFIs and State-Insured Credit Unions) must submit to the CDFI Fund financial statements audited in conformity with generally accepted auditing standards as promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, no later than six months after the end of the Recipient's fiscal year.
(iii) Insured CDFIs are not required to submit financial statements to the CDFI Fund. The CDFI Fund will obtain the necessary information from publicly available sources. State-Insured Credit Unions must submit to the CDFI Fund copies of the financial statements that they submit to the Appropriate State Agency.
(iv) If multiple for-profit organizations sign the Assistance Agreement: The Recipient may submit combined financial statements and footnotes for the Recipient and other entities that signed the Assistance Agreement as long as the financial statements of each signatory are shown separately (for example, in combining financial statements).
(2)
Annual Report.
(i) Each Recipient shall submit to the CDFI Fund a performance and financial report at the times that shall be specified in the Assistance Agreement (Annual Report). The Annual Report consists of several components which may include, but are not limited to, an institution level report, transaction level report, use of financial or technical assistance report, explanation of any Recipient noncompliance, and shareholder report. The Annual Report components shall be specified and described in the Assistance Agreement.
(ii) The CDFI Fund will use the Annual Report to collect data to assess the Recipient's compliance with its Performance Goals and the impact of the CDFI Program and the CDFI industry.
(iii) Recipients are responsible for the timely and complete submission of the Annual Report, even if all or a portion of the documents actually are completed by another entity or signatory to the Assistance Agreement. If such other entities or signatories are required to provide Annual Reports, or other documentation that the CDFI Fund may require, the Recipient is responsible for ensuring that the information is submitted timely and complete. The CDFI Fund reserves the right to contact such additional signatories to the Assistance Agreement and require that additional information and documentation be provided.
(3) The CDFI Fund's review of the progress of an Insured CDFI, a Depository Institution Holding Company or a State-Insured Credit Union in implementing its Comprehensive Business Plan and satisfying the terms and conditions of its Assistance Agreement may also include information from the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency, as the case may be.
(4)
Public Access.
The CDFI Fund shall make reports described in this section available for public inspection
after deleting or redacting any materials necessary to protect privacy or proprietary interests.
(f)
Exchange of information with Appropriate Federal Banking Agencies and Appropriate State Agencies.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, prior to directly requesting information from or imposing reporting or record keeping requirements on an Insured CDFI or other institution that is examined by or subject to the reporting requirements of an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, the CDFI Fund shall consult with the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency to determine if the information requested is available from or may be obtained by such agency in the form, format, and detail required by the CDFI Fund.
(2) If the information, reports, or records requested by the CDFI Fund pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section are not provided by the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency within 15 calendar days after the date on which the material is requested, the CDFI Fund may request the information from or impose the record keeping or reporting requirements directly on such institutions with notice to the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency.
(3) The CDFI Fund shall use any information provided by an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency under this section to the extent practicable to eliminate duplicative requests for information and reports from, and record keeping by, an Insured CDFI, State-Insured Credit Union or other institution that is examined by or subject to the reporting requirements of an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency.
(4) Notwithstanding paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, the CDFI Fund may require an Insured CDFI, State-Insured Credit Union, or other institution that is examined by or subject to the reporting requirements of an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency to provide information with respect to the institution's implementation of its Comprehensive Business Plan or compliance with the terms of its Assistance Agreement, after providing notice to the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency, as the case may be.
(5) Nothing in this part shall be construed to permit the CDFI Fund to require an Insured CDFI, State-Insured Credit Union, or other institution that is examined by or subject to the reporting requirements of an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency to obtain, maintain, or furnish an examination report of any Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency, or records contained in or related to such report.
(6) The CDFI Fund and the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency shall promptly notify each other of material concerns about a Recipient that is an Insured CDFI or that is examined by or subject to the reporting requirements of an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, and share appropriate information relating to such concerns.
(7) Neither the CDFI Fund nor the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (or Appropriate State Agency, as the case may be) shall disclose confidential information obtained pursuant to this section from any party without the written consent of that party.
(8) The CDFI Fund, the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (or Appropriate State Agency, as the case may be), and any other party providing information under this paragraph (f) shall not be deemed to have waived any privilege applicable to the any information or data, or any portion thereof, by providing such information or data to the other party or by permitting such data or information, or any copies or portions thereof, to be used by the other party.
§ 1805.804
Information.
The CDFI Fund and each Appropriate Federal Banking Agency shall cooperate and respond to requests from each other and from other Appropriate Federal Banking Agencies in a manner that ensures the safety and soundness of Insured CDFIs or other institution that is examined by or subject to the reporting requirements of an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency.
§ 1805.805
Compliance with government requirements.
In carrying out its responsibilities pursuant to an Assistance Agreement, the Recipient shall comply with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws, regulations, and ordinances, OMB Circulars, and Executive Orders. Furthermore, Recipients must comply with the CDFI Fund's Environmental Quality Regulations (12 CFR part 1815) as well as all other federal environmental requirements applicable to federal awards.
§ 1805.806
Conflict of interest requirements.
(a)
Provision of credit to Insiders.
(1) A Recipient that is a Non-Regulated CDFI may not use any monies provided to it by the CDFI Fund to make any credit (including loans and Equity Investments) available to an Insider, unless it meets the following restrictions:
(i) The credit must be provided pursuant to standard underwriting procedures, terms and conditions;
(ii) The Insider receiving the credit, and any family member or business partner thereof, shall not participate in any way in the decision making regarding such credit;
(iii) The board of directors or other governing body of the Recipient shall approve the extension of the credit; and
(iv) The credit must be provided in accordance with a policy regarding credit to Insiders that has been approved in advance by the CDFI Fund.
(2) A Recipient that is an Insured CDFI, a Depository Institution Holding Company or a State-Insured Credit Union shall comply with the restrictions on Insider activities and any comparable restrictions established by its Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency, as applicable.
(b)
Recipient standards of conduct.
A Recipient that is a Non-Regulated CDFI shall maintain a code or standards of conduct acceptable to the CDFI Fund that shall govern the performance of its Insiders engaged in the awarding and administration of any credit (including loans and Equity Investments) and contracts using monies from the CDFI Fund. No Insider of a Recipient shall solicit or accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from any actual or potential borrowers, owners, or contractors for such credit or contracts. Such policies shall provide for disciplinary actions to be applied for violation of the standards by the Recipient's Insiders.
§ 1805.807
Lobbying restrictions.
No assistance made available under this part may be expended by a Recipient to pay any person to influence or attempt to influence any agency, elected official, officer or employee of a State or local government in connection with the making, award, extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any State or local government contract, grant, loan or cooperative agreement as such terms are defined in 31 U.S.C. 1352.
§ 1805.808
Criminal provisions.
The criminal provisions of 18 U.S.C. 657 regarding embezzlement or misappropriation of funds are applicable to all Recipients and Insiders.
§ 1805.809
CDFI Fund deemed not to control.
The CDFI Fund shall not be deemed to Control a Recipient by reason of any assistance provided under the Act for the purpose of any applicable law.
§ 1805.810
Limitation on liability.
The liability of the CDFI Fund and the United States Government arising out of any assistance to a CDFI in accordance with this part shall be limited to the amount of the investment in the CDFI. The CDFI Fund shall be exempt from any assessments and other liabilities that may be imposed on controlling or principal shareholders by any Federal law or the law of any State. Nothing in this section shall affect the application of any Federal tax law.
§ 1805.811
Fraud, waste and abuse.
Any person who becomes aware of the existence or apparent existence of fraud, waste, or abuse of assistance provided under this part should report such incidences to the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
Pt. 1806

# PART 1806—BANK ENTERPRISE AWARD PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1806.100
Purpose.
1806.101
Summary.
1806.102
Relationship to other CDFI Fund programs.
1806.103
Definitions.
1806.104
Uniform Administrative Requirements; waiver authority.
1806.105
OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Eligibility
1806.200
Applicant eligibility.

# Subpart C—Use of Funds/Eligible Activities
1806.300
Eligible Activities.
1806.301
Restrictions on use of award.

# Subpart D—Award Determinations
1806.400
General.
1806.401
Community eligibility and designation.
1806.402
Measuring and reporting Qualified Activities.
1806.403
Estimated award amounts.
1806.404
Selection process; actual award amounts.
1806.405
Applications for BEA Program Awards.]

# Subpart E—Terms and Conditions of Assistance
1806.500
Award Agreement; sanctions.
1806.501
Compliance with government requirements.
1806.502
Fraud, waste, and abuse.
1806.503
Books of account, records, and government access.
1806.504
Retention of records.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1834a, 4703, 4703 note, 4713, 4717; 31 U.S.C. 321.

# Source:
81 FR 52743, Aug. 10, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1806.100
Purpose.
The purpose of the Bank Enterprise Award (BEA) Program is to provide grants to Insured Depository Institutions that provide financial and technical assistance to Community Development Financial Institutions and increase their activities in Distressed Communities.
§ 1806.101
Summary.
Through the BEA Program, the CDFI Fund will provide monetary awards in the form of grants to Applicants selected by the CDFI Fund that increase their investments in or provide other support of CDFIs, increase their lending and investment activities in Distressed Communities, or increase their provision of certain services and assistance. Distressed Communities must meet minimum geographic, poverty, and unemployment criteria. Applicants are selected to receive BEA Program Awards through a merit-based, competitive application process. The amount of a BEA Program Award is based on the increase in Qualified Activities that are carried out by the Applicant during the Assessment Period. BEA Program Awards are disbursed by the CDFI Fund after the Recipient has successfully completed projected Qualified Activities. Each Recipient will enter into an Award Agreement, which will require it to abide by terms and conditions pertinent to any assistance received under this part, including the requirement that BEA Program Award proceeds must be used for Eligible Activities, and in accordance with the Uniform Administrative Requirements, as applicable. All BEA Program Awards are made subject to funding availability.
§ 1806.102
Relationship to other CDFI Fund programs.
(a)
Restrictions using BEA Program Award in conjunction with other awards.
(1) Restrictions are in place on applying for, receiving, and using BEA Program Awards in conjunction with awards under other programs administered by the CDFI Fund.
(2) Other programs include, but not limited to, the Capital Magnet Fund, the CDFI Program, the CDFI Bond Guarantee Program, the Native American CDFI Assistance Program, and the New Markets Tax Credit Program, are as set forth in the applicable notice of funding opportunity or Notice of Allocation Availability.
(b)
Prohibition against double funding.
(1) Qualified Activities may not include transactions funded in whole or in part with award proceeds from another
CDFI Fund program or Federal program.
(2) An Applicant that is a CDFI may not receive a BEA Program Award, either directly or through a community partnership if it has:
(i) Received a CDFI Program award within the preceding 12-month period, or has a CDFI Program application pending; or
(ii) Ever received a CDFI Program award based on the same activity during the same semiannual period for which the institution seeks a BEA Program Award.
§ 1806.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following terms shall have the following definitions:
Act
means the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
);
Affordable Housing Development Loan
means origination of a loan to finance the acquisition, construction, and/or development of single- or multi-family residential real property, where at least 60 percent of the units in such property are affordable, as may be defined in the applicable NOFA, to Eligible Residents who meet Low- and Moderate-Income requirements;
Affordable Housing Loan
means origination of a loan to finance the purchase or improvement of the borrower's primary residence, and that is secured by such property, where such borrower is an Eligible Resident who meets Low- and Moderate-Income requirements. Affordable Housing Loan may also refer to second (or otherwise subordinated) liens or “soft second” mortgages and other similar types of down payment assistance loans, but may not necessarily be secured by such property originated for the purpose of facilitating the purchase or improvement of the borrower's primary residence, where such borrower is an Eligible Resident who meets Low- and Moderate-Income requirements;
Applicant
means any insured depository institution (as defined in section 3(c)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813)) that is applying for a Bank Enterprise Award;
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency
has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813);
Assessment Period
means an annual or semi-annual period specified in the applicable NOFA in which an Applicant will carry out, or has carried out, Qualified Activities;
Award Agreement
means a formal agreement between the CDFI Fund and a Recipient pursuant to § 1806.500;
Bank Enterprise Award
(or
BEA Program Award
) means an award made to an Applicant pursuant to this part;
Bank Enterprise Award Program
(or
BEA Program
) means the program authorized by section 114 of the Act and implemented under this part;
Baseline Period
means an annual or a semi-annual period specified in the applicable NOFA, in which an Applicant has previously carried out Qualified Activities;
CDFI Partner
means a CDFI that has been provided assistance in the form of CDFI Related Activities by an unaffiliated Applicant;
CDFI Related Activities
means Equity Investments, Equity-Like Loans and CDFI Support Activities;
CDFI Support Activity
means assistance provided by an Applicant or its Subsidiary to a CDFI that meets criteria set forth by the CDFI Fund in the applicable NOFA and that is Integrally Involved in a Distressed Community, in the form of the origination of a loan, Technical Assistance, or deposits, as further specified in the applicable NOFA;
Commercial Loans and Investments
means the following lending activity types: Affordable Housing Development Loans and related Project Investments; Small Business Loans and related Project Investments; and Commercial Real Estate Loans and related Project Investments;
Commercial Real Estate Loan
means an origination of a loan (other than an Affordable Housing Development Loan or Affordable Housing Loan) that is secured by real estate and used to finance the acquisition or rehabilitation of a building in a Distressed Community, or the acquisition, construction and or development of property in a
Distressed Community, used for commercial purposes;
Community Development Financial Institution
(or
CDFI
) means an entity that has been certified as a CDFI by the CDFI Fund as of the date specified in the applicable NOFA;
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
(or
CDFI Fund
) means the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund established pursuant to section 104(a)(12 U.S.C. 4703(a)) of the Act;
Community Services
means the following forms of assistance provided by officers, employees or agents (contractual or otherwise) of the Applicant:
(1) Provision of Technical Assistance and financial education to Eligible Residents regarding managing their personal finances;
(2) Provision of Technical Assistance and consulting services to newly formed small businesses and nonprofit organizations located in the Distressed Community;
(3) Provision of Technical Assistance and financial education to, or servicing the loans of, homeowners who are Eligible Residents and meet Low- and Moderate-Income requirements; and
(4) Other services provided to Eligible Residents who meet Low- and Moderate-Income requirements or enterprises that are Integrally Involved in a Distressed Community, as deemed appropriate by the CDFI Fund, and other comparable services as may be specified by the CDFI Fund in the applicable NOFA;
Consumer Loans
means the following lending activity types: Affordable Housing Loans; Education Loans; Home Improvement Loans; and Small Dollar Consumer Loans;
Deposit Liabilities
means time or savings deposits or demand deposits. Any such deposit must be accepted from Eligible Residents at the offices of the Applicant or of the Subsidiary of the Applicant and located in the Distressed Community. Deposit Liabilities may only include deposits held by individuals in transaction accounts (
e.g.,
demand deposits, negotiable order of withdrawal accounts, automated transfer service accounts, and telephone or preauthorized transfer accounts) or non-transaction accounts (
e.g.,
money market deposit accounts, other savings deposits, and all time deposits), as defined by the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency;
Development Service Activities
means activities that promote community development and are integral to the Applicant's provision of financial products and Financial Services. Such services shall prepare or assist current or potential borrowers or investees to utilize the financial products or Financial Services of the Applicant. Development Service Activities include financial or credit counseling to individuals for the purpose of facilitating home ownership, promoting self-employment, or enhancing consumer financial management skills; or technical assistance to borrowers or investees for the purpose of enhancing business planning, marketing, management, financial management skills, and other comparable services as may be specified by the CDFI Fund in the applicable NOFA.
Distressed Community
means a geographically defined community that meets the minimum area eligibility requirements specified in § 1806.401 and such additional criteria as may be set forth in the applicable NOFA;
Distressed Community Financing Activities
means:
(1) Consumer Loans; or
(2) Commercial Loans and Investments;
Education Loan
means an advance of funds to a student who is an Eligible Resident who meets Low- and Moderate-Income requirements for the purpose of financing a college or vocational education;
Electronic Transfer Account
(or
ETA
) means an account that meets the following requirements, and with respect to which the Applicant has satisfied the requirements:
(1) Be an individually owned account at a Federally insured financial institution;
(2) Be available to any individual who receives a Federal benefit, wage, salary, or retirement payment;
(3) Accept electronic Federal benefit, wage, salary, and retirement payments and such other deposits as a financial institution agrees to permit;
(4) Be subject to a maximum price of $3.00 per month;
(5) Have a minimum of four cash withdrawals and four balance inquiries per month, to be included in the monthly fee, through:
(i) The financial institution's proprietary (on-us) automated teller machines (ATMs);
(ii) Over-the-counter transactions at the main office or a branch of the financial institution; or
(iii) Any combination of on-us ATM access and over-the-counter access at the option of the financial institution;
(6) Provide the same consumer protections that are available to other account holders at the financial institution, including, for accounts that provide electronic access, Regulation E (12 CFR part 205) protections regarding disclosure, limitations on liability, procedures for reporting lost or stolen cards, and procedures for error resolution;
(7) For financial institutions that are members of an on-line point-of-sale (POS) network, allow on-line POS purchases, cash withdrawals, and cash back with purchases at no additional charge by the financial institution offering the ETA;
(8) Require no minimum balance, except as required by Federal or State law;
(9) At the option of the financial institution, be either an interest-bearing or a non-interest-bearing account; and
(10) Provide a monthly statement.
Eligible Activities
means CDFI Related Activities, Distressed Community Financing Activities, and Service Activities, and as further described in the applicable NOFA and the Award Agreement;
Eligible Resident
means an individual who resides in a Distressed Community;
Equity Investment
means financial assistance provided by an Applicant or its Subsidiary to a CDFI, which CDFI meets such criteria as set forth in the applicable NOFA, in the form of a grant, a stock purchase, a purchase of a partnership interest, a purchase of a limited liability company membership interest, or any other investment deemed to be an Equity Investment by the CDFI Fund;
Equity-Like Loan
means a loan provided by an Applicant or its Subsidiary to a CDFI, and made on such terms that it has characteristics of an Equity Investment that meets such criteria as set forth in the applicable NOFA;
Financial Services
means check-cashing, providing money orders and certified checks, automated teller machines, safe deposit boxes, new branches, and other comparable services as may be specified by the CDFI Fund in the applicable NOFA, that are provided by the Applicant to Eligible Residents or enterprises that are Integrally Involved in the Distressed Community;
Geographic Units
means counties (or equivalent areas), incorporated places, minor civil divisions that are units of local government, census tracts, block numbering areas, block groups, and Indian Areas or Native American Areas (as each is defined by the U.S. Bureau of the Census), or other areas deemed appropriate by the CDFI Fund;
Home Improvement Loan
means an advance of funds, either unsecured or secured by a one-to-four family residential property, the proceeds of which are used to improve the borrower's primary residence, where such borrower is an Eligible Resident who meets Low- and Moderate-Income requirements;
Indian Reservation
means a geographic area that meets the requirements of section 4(10) of the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 1903(10)), and shall include land held by incorporated Native groups, regional corporations, and village corporations, as defined in and pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
), public domain Indian allotments, and former Indian Reservations in the State of Oklahoma;
Individual Development Account
(or
IDA
) means a special savings account that matches the deposits of Eligible Residents who meet Low- and Moderate-Income requirements individuals and that enables such individuals to save money for a particular financial goal including, but not limited to, and as determined by the CDFI Fund: buying a home, paying for post-secondary education, or starting or expanding a small business;
Insured Depository Institution
means any bank or thrift, the deposits of
which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
Integrally Involved
means, for a CDFI Partner, having provided or transacted the percentage of financial transactions or dollars (
i.e.,
loans or Equity Investments), or Development Service Activities, in the Distressed Community identified by the Applicant or the CDFI Partner, as applicable, or having attained the percentage of market share for a particular product in a Distressed Community, set forth in the applicable NOFA;
Low- and Moderate-Income or Low- and Moderate-Income requirements
means borrower income that does not exceed 80 percent of the median income of the area involved, according to the U.S. Census Bureau data, set forth in the Applicable NOFA;
Metropolitan Area
means an area designated as such (as of the date of the BEA Program application) by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3504(e)(3), 31 U.S.C. 1104(d), and Executive Order 10253 (3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp., p. 758), as amended;
Notice of Funding Availability
(or
NOFA
) means the public notice of funding opportunity that announces the availability of BEA Program Award funds for a particular funding round and that advises prospective Applicants with respect to obtaining application materials, establishes application submission deadlines, and establishes other requirements or restrictions applicable for the particular funding round;
Priority Factor
means a numeric value assigned to the following, as established by the CDFI Fund in the applicable NOFA:
(1) Each subcategory within the Distressed Community Financing Activities category of Qualified Activities; or
(2) Each activity-type within the Service Activities and CDFI Related Activities categories of Qualified Activities.
(3) A priority factor represents the CDFI Fund's assessment of the degree of difficulty, the extent of innovation, and the extent of benefits accruing to the Distressed Community for each type of activity;
Project Investment
means providing financial assistance in the form of a purchase of stock, limited partnership interest, other ownership instrument, or a grant to an entity that is Integrally Involved in a Distressed Community and formed for the sole purpose of engaging in a project or activity (approved by the CDFI Fund), including Affordable Housing Development Loans, Affordable Housing Loans, Commercial Real Estate Loans, and Small Business Loans;
Qualified Activities
means CDFI Related Activities, Distressed Community Financing Activities, and Service Activities;
Recipient
means an Applicant that receives a BEA Program Award pursuant to this part and the applicable NOFA;
Service Activities
means the following activities: Deposit Liabilities; Financial Services; Community Services; Targeted Financial Services; and Targeted Retail Savings/Investment Products;
Small Business Loan
means an origination of a loan used for commercial or industrial activities (other than an Affordable Housing Loan, Affordable Housing Development Loan, Commercial Real Estate Loan, Home Improvement Loan) to a business or farm that meets the size eligibility standards of the Small Business Administration's Development Company or Small Business Investment Company programs (13 CFR 121.301) and is located in a Distressed Community;
Small Dollar Consumer Loan
means affordable consumer lending products that serve as available alternatives in the marketplace for individuals who are Eligible Residents who meet Low- and Moderate-Income requirements and meet criteria further specified in the applicable NOFA;
State
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia or any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands;
Subsidiary
has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, except that a CDFI shall not be considered a Subsidiary of any Insured Depository Institution or any
depository institution holding company that controls less than 25 percent of any class of the voting shares of such corporation and does not otherwise control, in any manner, the election of a majority of directors of the corporation;
Targeted Financial Services
means ETAs, IDAs, and such other banking products targeted to Eligible Residents, as may be specified by the CDFI Fund in the applicable NOFA;
Targeted Retail Savings/Investment Products
means certificates of deposit, mutual funds, life insurance, and other similar savings or investment vehicles targeted to Eligible Residents, as may be specified by the CDFI Fund in the applicable NOFA;
Technical Assistance
means the provision of consulting services, resources, training, and other nonmonetary support relating to an organization, individual, or operation of a trade or business, as may be specified by the CDFI Fund in the applicable NOFA; and
Unit of General Local Government
means any city, county town, township, parish, village, or other general-purpose political subdivision of a State or Commonwealth of the United States, or general-purpose subdivision thereof, and the District of Columbia.
§ 1806.104
Uniform Administrative Requirements; waiver authority.
(a)
Uniform Administrative Requirements.
The Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards (Uniform Administrative Requirements), codified by the Department of the Treasury at 2 CFR part 1000, apply to awards, regardless of type of award Recipient, made pursuant to this part.
(b)
Waiver authority.
The CDFI Fund may waive any requirement of this part that is not required by law, upon a determination of good cause. Each such waiver will be in writing and supported by a statement of the facts and grounds forming the basis of the waiver. For a waiver in any individual case, the CDFI Fund must determine that application of the requirement to be waived would adversely affect the achievement of the purposes of the Act. For waivers of general applicability, the CDFI Fund will publish notification of granted waivers in the
Federal Register
.
§ 1806.105
OMB control number.
The collections of information contained in this part have been reviewed and approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 and assigned the applicable, approved OMB Control Numbers associated with the CDFI Fund under 1559.

# Subpart B—Eligibility
§ 1806.200
Applicant eligibility.
An entity that is an Insured Depository Institution is eligible to apply for a BEA Program Award if the CDFI Fund receives a complete BEA Program Award application by the deadline set forth in the applicable Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA). Additional eligibility requirements are set forth in the applicable NOFA.

# Subpart C—Use of Funds/Eligible Activities
§ 1806.300
Eligible Activities.
Recipients of BEA Program Awards must use their payments for the following Eligible Activities:
(a) CDFI Related Activities;
(b) Distressed Community Financing Activities; and
(c) Service Activities, and to comply with the Uniform Administrative Requirements as further described in the applicable NOFA and the Award Agreement.
§ 1806.301
Restrictions of use of award.
A Recipient may not distribute BEA Program Award funds to an Affiliate without the CDFI Fund's prior written consent.

# Subpart D—Award Determinations
§ 1806.400
General.
The amount of a BEA Program Award shall be based on the Applicant's increases in Qualified Activities from the Baseline Period to the Assessment Period, as set forth in the applicable NOFA. When determining this increase, Applicants must consider all
BEA Qualified Activities and all BEA qualified census tracts, as it relates to a given subcategory or activity type, as applicable.
§ 1806.401
Community eligibility and designation.
(a)
General.
If an Applicant reports that it has provided or engaged in Service Activities or Distressed Community Financing Activities, the Applicant shall identify one or more Distressed Communities in which it has provided or engaged in such activities. The Applicant may identify different Distressed Communities for each category or subcategory of activity. If an Applicant reports that it has provided or engaged in CDFI Support Activities, the Applicant shall provide evidence that the CDFI that the Applicant supported is Integrally Involved in a Distressed Community, as specified in the applicable NOFA.
(b)
Minimum area and eligibility requirements.
A Distressed Community must meet the following minimum area and eligibility requirements:
(1)
Minimum area requirements.
A Distressed Community:
(i) Must be an area that is located within the jurisdiction of one (1) Unit of General Local Government;
(ii) The boundaries of the area must be contiguous; and
(iii) The area must:
(A) Have a population, as determined by the most recent U.S. Bureau of the Census data available, of not less than 4,000 if any portion of the area is located within a Metropolitan Area with a population of 50,000 or greater; or
(B) Have a population, as determined by the most recent U.S. Bureau of the Census data available, of not less than 1,000 in any other case; or
(C) Be located entirely within an Indian Reservation.
(2)
Eligibility requirements.
A Distressed Community must be a geographic area where:
(i) At least 30 percent of the Eligible Residents have incomes that are less than the national poverty level, as published by the U.S. Bureau of the Census or in other sources as set forth in guidance issued by the CDFI Fund;
(ii) The unemployment rate is at least 1.5 times greater than the national average, as determined by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics' most recently published data, including estimates of unemployment developed using the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics' Census-Share calculation method, or in other sources as set forth in guidance issued by the CDFI Fund; and
(iii) Such additional requirements as may be specified by the CDFI Fund in the applicable NOFA.
(c)
Area designation.
An Applicant shall designate an area as a Distressed Community by:
(1) Selecting Geographic Units which individually meet the minimum area and eligibility requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section; or
(2) Selecting two or more Geographic Units which, in the aggregate, meet the minimum area and eligibility requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, provided that no Geographic Unit selected by the Applicant within the area has a poverty rate of less than 20 percent.
(d)
Designation.
The CDFI Fund will provide a prospective Applicant with data and other information to help it identify areas eligible to be designated as a Distressed Community. If requested, applicants shall submit designation materials as instructed in the applicable NOFA.
§ 1806.402
Measuring and reporting Qualified Activities.
(a)
General.
An Applicant may receive a BEA Program Award for engaging in any of the following categories of Qualified Activities during an Assessment Period: CDFI Related Activities, Distressed Community Financing Activities, or Service Activities. The CDFI Fund may further qualify such Qualified Activities in the applicable NOFA, including such additional geographic and transaction size limitations as the CDFI Fund deems appropriate.
(b)
Reporting Qualified Activities.
An Applicant should report only its Qualified Activities for the category or subcategory for which it is seeking a BEA Program Award.
(1) If an Applicant elects to apply for an award in the CDFI Related Activities category, it may elect to report on
one or both types of activities within the CDFI Related Activities category.
(2) If an Applicant elects to apply for an award in the Distressed Community Financing Activities category, the Applicant must report on the following subcategories:
(i) Aggregate Consumer Loans; or
(ii) Aggregate Commercial Loans and Investments; or
(iii) Both paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) separately; unless the Applicant provides a reasonable explanation, acceptable to the CDFI Fund, in its sole discretion, as to why the Applicant cannot report on aggregated activities in such subcategories.
(3) If an Applicant elects to apply for an award in the Service Activities category, it may elect to report on one or more types of activities within the Service Activities category.
(c)
Area served.
CDFI Related Activities must be provided to a CDFI. CDFI Partners that are the recipients of CDFI Support Activities must demonstrate that they are Integrally Involved in a Distressed Community. Service Activities and Distressed Community Financing Activities must serve a Distressed Community. An activity is considered to serve a Distressed Community if it is:
(1) Undertaken in the Distressed Community; or
(2) Provided to Eligible Residents or enterprises that are Integrally Involved in the Distressed Community.
(d)
Certain limitations on Qualified Activities.
Activities funded with the proceeds of Federal funding or tax credit programs are ineligible for purposes of calculating or receiving a Bank Enterprise Award. Please see the applicable NOFA for each funding round's limitations on Qualified Activities. Qualified Activities shall not include loans to or investments in those business types set forth in the Uniform Administrative Requirements.
(e)
Measuring the value of Qualified Activities.
Subject to such additional or alternative valuations as the CDFI Fund may specify in the applicable NOFA, the CDFI Fund will assess the value of:
(1) Equity Investments, Equity-Like Loans, loans, grants and certificates of deposits, at the original amount of such Equity Investments, Equity-Like Loans, loans, grants or certificates of deposits. Where a certificate of deposit matures and is then rolled over during the Baseline Period or the Assessment Period, as applicable, the CDFI Fund will assess the value of the full amount of the rolled-over deposit. Where an existing loan is refinanced (meaning, a new loan is originated to pay off an existing loan, whether or not there is a change in the applicable loan terms), the CDFI Fund will only assess the value of any increase in the principal amount of the refinanced loan;
(2) Project Investments at the original amount of the purchase of stock, limited partnership interest, other ownership interest, or grant;
(3) Deposit Liabilities at the dollar amount deposited as measured by comparing the net change in the amount of applicable funds on deposit at the Applicant during the Baseline Period with the net change in the amount of applicable funds on deposit at the Applicant during the Assessment Period, as described in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section:
(i) The Applicant shall calculate the net change in deposits during the Baseline Period by comparing the amount of applicable funds on deposit at the close of business the day before the beginning of the Baseline Period and at the close of business on the last day of the Baseline Period; and
(ii) The Applicant shall calculate the net change in such deposits during the Assessment Period by comparing the amount of applicable funds on deposit at the close of business the day before the beginning of the Assessment Period and at the close of business on the last day of the Assessment Period;
(4) Financial Services and Targeted Financial Services based on the predetermined amounts as set forth by the CDFI Fund in the applicable NOFA; and
(5) Financial Services (other than those for which the CDFI Fund has established a predetermined value), Community Services, and CDFI Support Activities consisting of Technical Assistance based on the administrative costs of providing such services.
(f)
Closed transactions.
A transaction shall be considered to have been closed
and carried out during the Baseline Period or the Assessment Period if the documentation evidencing the transaction:
(1) Is executed on a date within the applicable Baseline Period or Assessment Period, respectively; and
(2) Constitutes a legally binding agreement between the Applicant and a borrower or investee, which agreement specifies the final terms and conditions of the transaction, except that any contingencies included in the final agreement must be typical of such transaction and acceptable (both in the judgment of the CDFI Fund); and
(3) An initial cash disbursement of loan or investment proceeds has occurred in a manner that is consistent with customary business practices and is reasonable given the nature of the transaction (as determined by the CDFI Fund), unless it is normal business practice to make no initial disbursement at closing and the Applicant demonstrates that the borrower has access to the proceeds, subject to reasonable conditions as may be determined by the CDFI Fund.
(g)
Reporting period.
An Applicant must only measure the amount of a Qualified Activity that it reasonably expects to disburse to an investee, borrower, or other recipient within one year of the end of the applicable Assessment Period, or such other period as may be set forth by the CDFI Fund in the applicable NOFA.
§ 1806.403
Estimated award amounts.
(a)
General.
An Applicant must calculate and submit to the CDFI Fund an estimated award amount as part of its BEA Program Award application.
(b)
Award percentages.
The CDFI Fund will establish the award percentage for each category and subcategory of Qualified Activities in the applicable NOFA. Applicable award percentages for Qualified Activities undertaken by Applicants that are CDFIs will be equal to three times the award percentages for Qualified Activities undertaken by Applicants that are not CDFIs.
(c)
Calculating the estimated award amount for Qualified Activities.
(1) The estimated award amount for the CDFI Related Activities category will be equal to the applicable award percentage of the net increase in each activity-type (
i.e.,
Equity Investments/Equity Like-Loans; and CDFI Support Activities) under the CDFI Related Activities category between the Baseline Period and Assessment Period.
(2) The estimated award amount for the Distressed Community Financing Activities category will be equal to the applicable award percentage of the weighted value of each subcategory of Distressed Community Financing Activities (
i.e.,
Consumer Loans; and Commercial Loans and Investments) between the Baseline Period and Assessment Period. The weighted value of the applicable subcategories shall be calculated by:
(i) Subtracting the Baseline Period value of such subcategory from the Assessment Period value of such subcategory to yield a difference; and
(ii) Multiplying the difference by the applicable Priority Factor (as set forth in the applicable NOFA).
(3) The estimated award amount for the Service Activities category will be equal to the applicable award percentage of the weighted value of each activity type between the Baseline Period and Assessment Period. The weighted value of the applicable activity type shall be calculated by:
(i) Subtracting the Baseline Period value of such Qualified Activity from the Assessment Period value of such Qualified Activity to yield a difference; and
(ii) Multiplying the difference by the applicable Priority Factor (as set forth in the applicable NOFA).
(d)
Estimated award eligibility review.
The CDFI Fund will determine the eligibility of each transaction for which an Applicant has applied for a BEA Program Award. Based upon this review, the CDFI Fund will calculate the actual award amount for which such Applicant is eligible.
§ 1806.404
Selection process; actual award amounts.
(a)
Sufficient funds available to cover estimated awards.
All BEA Program Awards are subject to the availability of funds. If the amount of appropriated funds available during a funding round is sufficient to cover all estimated award amounts for which Applicants
are eligible, in the CDFI Fund's determination, and an Applicant meets all of the program requirements specified in this part, then such Applicant shall receive an actual award amount that is calculated by the CDFI Fund in the manner specified in § 1806.403.
(b)
Insufficient funds available to cover estimated awards.
If the amount of funds available during a funding round is insufficient to cover all estimated award amounts for which Applicants are eligible, in the CDFI Fund's determination, then the CDFI Fund will select Recipients and determine actual award amounts based on the process described in paragraph (c) of this section and any established maximum dollar amount of awards that may be awarded for the Distressed Community Financing Activities subcategories, as described in the applicable NOFA.
(c)
Priority of awards.
In circumstances where there are insufficient funds to cover estimated awards, the CDFI Fund will rank Applicants based on whether the Applicant is a CDFI or a non-CDFI, and in each category of Qualified Activity (
e.g.,
Service Activities) according to the priorities described in this paragraph (c). Selections within each priority category will be based on the Applicants' relative rankings within each category, and based on whether the Applicant is a CDFI or a non-CDFI, subject to the availability of funds.
(1)
First priority.
If the amount of funds available during a funding round is insufficient for all estimated award amounts, first priority will be given to CDFI Applicants that engaged in CDFI Related Activities, followed by non-CDFI Applicants that engaged in CDFI Related Activities ranked in the ratio as set forth in the applicable NOFA.
(2)
Second priority.
If the amount of funds available during a funding round is sufficient for all first priority Applicants but insufficient for all remaining estimated award amounts, second priority will be given to CDFI Applicants that engaged in Distressed Community Financing Activities, followed by non-CDFI Applicants that engaged in Distressed Community Financing Activities, ranked in the ratio as set forth in the applicable NOFA.
(3)
Third priority.
If the amount of funds available during a funding round is sufficient for all first and second priority Applicants, but insufficient for all remaining estimated award amounts, third priority will be given to CDFI Applicants that engaged in Service Activities, followed by non-CDFI Applicants that engaged in Service Activities, ranked in the ratio as set forth in the applicable NOFA.
(d)
Calculating actual award amounts.
The CDFI Fund will determine actual award amounts based upon the availability of funds, increases in Qualified Activities from the Baseline to the Assessment Period, and an Applicant's priority ranking. If an Applicant receives an award for more than one priority category described in this section, the CDFI Fund will combine the award amounts into a single BEA Program Award.
(e)
Unobligated or deobligated funds.
The CDFI Fund, in its sole discretion, may use any deobligated funds or funds not obligated during a funding round:
(1) To select Applicants not previously selected, using the calculation and selection process contained in this part;
(2) To make additional monies available for a subsequent funding round; or
(3) As otherwise authorized by the Act.
(f)
Limitation.
The CDFI Fund, in its sole discretion, may deny or limit the amount of a BEA Program Award for any reason.
§ 1806.405
Applications for BEA Program Awards.
(a)
Notice of funding availability; applications.
Applicants must submit applications for BEA Program Awards in accordance with this section and the applicable NOFA. An Applicant's application must demonstrate a realistic course of action to ensure that it will meet the requirements described in subpart D of this part within the period set forth in the applicable NOFA. Detailed application content requirements are found in the related application and applicable NOFA. The CDFI Fund will not disburse an award to an Applicant before it meets the eligibility requirements described in the applicable NOFA. The CDFI Fund shall
require an Applicant to meet any additional eligibility requirements that the CDFI Fund deems appropriate. After receipt of an application, the CDFI Fund may request clarifying or technical information related to materials submitted as part of such application and/or to verify that Qualified Activities were carried out in the manner prescribed in this part. The CDFI Fund, in its sole discretion, shall determine whether an applicant fulfills the requirements set for forth in this part and the applicable NOFA.
(b)
Application contents.
An application for a BEA Program Award must contain:
(1) A completed electronic application module that reports the increases in Qualified Activities actually carried out during the Assessment Period as compared to those carried out during the Baseline Period. If an Applicant has merged with another institution during the Assessment Period, it must determine the Baseline Period amounts and Assessment Period amounts of the Qualified Activities of the merged institutions, and report the increase;
(2) An electronic application module which includes transactions to be considered for award calculation purposes. The transactions will include Qualified Activities that were closed during the Assessment Period. Applicants shall describe the original amount, census tract served (if applicable), dates of execution, initial disbursement, and final disbursement of the instrument for each transaction;
(3) Documentation of Qualified Activities that meets the required thresholds and conditions described in § 1806.402(f) and the applicable NOFA;
(4) Information necessary for the CDFI Fund to complete its environmental review requirements pursuant to part 1815 of this chapter;
(5) Certifications, as described in the applicable NOFA and BEA Program Award application, that the information provided to the CDFI Fund is true and accurate and that the Applicant will comply with all relevant provisions of this chapter and all applicable Federal, State, and local laws, ordinances, regulations, policies, guidelines, and requirements;
(6) In the case of an Applicant that engaged in Service Activities, or Distressed Community Financing Activities, the Applicant must confirm, by submitting documentation as described in the applicable NOFA and BEA Program application, the Service Activities or Distressed Community Financing Activities were provided to:
(i) Eligible Residents; or
(ii) A business located in a Distressed Community.
(7) Information that indicates that each CDFI to which an Applicant has provided CDFI Support Activities is Integrally Involved in a Distressed Community, as described in the applicable NOFA and BEA Program application; and
(8) Any other information requested by the CDFI Fund, or specified by the CDFI Fund in the applicable NOFA or the BEA Program application, in order to document or otherwise assess the validity of information provided by the Applicant to the CDFI Fund.

# Subpart E—Terms and Conditions of Assistance
§ 1806.500
Award Agreement; sanctions.
(a)
General.
After the CDFI Fund selects a Recipient, the CDFI Fund and the Recipient will enter into an Award Agreement. In addition to the requirements of the Uniform Administrative Requirements, the Award Agreement will require that the Recipient:
(1) Must carry out its Eligible Activities in accordance with applicable law, the approved BEA Program application, and all other applicable requirements;
(2) Must comply with such other terms and conditions that the CDFI Fund may establish;
(3) Will not receive any BEA Program Award payment until the CDFI Fund has determined that the Recipient has fulfilled all applicable requirements;
(4) Must comply with performance goals that have been established by the CDFI Fund. Such performance goals will include measures that require the Recipient to use its BEA Program Award funds for Eligible Activities; and
(5) Must comply with all data collection and reporting requirements. Each Recipient must submit to the CDFI Fund such information and documentation that will permit the CDFI Fund to review the Recipient's progress in satisfying the terms and conditions of its Award Agreement, including:
(i)
Annual report.
Each Recipient shall submit to the CDFI Fund at least annually and within 90 days after the end of each year of the Recipient's performance period, an annual report that will provide data that, among other things, demonstrates the Recipient's compliance with its performance goals (including a description of any noncompliance), its uses of the BEA Program Award funds, and the impact of the BEA Program and the CDFI industry. Recipients are responsible for the timely and complete submission of the annual report.
(ii)
Financial statement.
A Recipient is not required to submit its financial statement to the CDFI Fund. The CDFI Fund may obtain the necessary information from publicly available sources.
(b)
Sanctions.
In the event of any fraud, misrepresentation, or noncompliance with the terms of the Award Agreement by the Recipient, the CDFI Fund may terminate, reduce, or recapture the award, bar the Recipient and/or its Affiliates from applying for an award from the CDFI Fund for a period to be decided by the CDFI Fund in its sole discretion, and pursue any other available legal remedies.
(c)
Compliance with other CDFI Fund awards.
In the event that an Applicant, Recipient, or its Subsidiary or Affiliate is not in compliance, as determined by the CDFI Fund, with the terms and conditions of any CDFI Fund award, the CDFI Fund may, in its sole discretion, bar said Applicant or Recipient from applying for future BEA Program Awards or withhold payment (either initial or subsequent) of BEA Program Award funds.
(d)
Notice.
Prior to imposing any sanctions pursuant to this section or an Award Agreement, the CDFI Fund will provide the Recipient with written notice of the proposed sanction and an opportunity to respond. Nothing in this section, however, will provide a Recipient with the right to any formal or informal hearing or comparable proceeding not otherwise required by law.
§ 1806.501
Compliance with government requirements.
In carrying out its responsibilities pursuant to an Award Agreement, the Recipient must comply with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws, regulations (including but not limited to the Uniform Administrative Requirements, ordinances, and Executive Orders).
§ 1806.502
Fraud, waste, and abuse.
Any person who becomes aware of the existence or apparent existence of fraud, waste, or abuse of assistance provided under this part should report such incidences to the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
§ 1806.503
Books of account, records, and government access.
(a) A Recipient shall submit such financial and activity reports, records, statements, and documents at such times, in such forms, and accompanied by such supporting data, as required by the CDFI Fund and the U.S. Department of the Treasury to ensure compliance with the requirements of this part. The United States Government, including the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Comptroller General, and its duly authorized representatives, shall have full and free access to the Recipient's offices and facilities, and all books, documents, records, and financial statements relevant to the award of the Federal funds and may copy such documents as they deem appropriate.
(b) The Award Agreement provides that the provisions of the Act, this part, and the Award Agreement are enforceable under 12 U.S.C. 1818 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act by the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, as applicable, and that any violation of such provisions shall be treated as a violation of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Nothing in this paragraph (b) precludes the CDFI Fund from directly enforcing the Award Agreement as provided for under the terms of the Act.
(c) The CDFI Fund will notify the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency before imposing any sanctions on a Recipient that is examined by or subject to the reporting requirements of that agency. The CDFI Fund will not impose a sanction described in § 1806.500(b) if the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, in writing, not later than 30 calendar days after receiving notice from the CDFI Fund:
(1) Objects to the proposed sanction;
(2) Determines that the sanction would:
(i) Have a material adverse effect on the safety and soundness of the Recipient; or
(ii) Impede or interfere with an enforcement action against that Recipient by the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency;
(3) Proposes a comparable alternative action; and
(4) Specifically explains:
(i) The basis for the determination under paragraph (c)(2) of this section and, if appropriate, provides documentation to support the determination; and
(ii) How the alternative action suggested pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section would be as effective as the sanction proposed by the CDFI Fund in securing compliance and deterring future noncompliance.
(d) Prior to imposing any sanctions pursuant to this section or an Award Agreement, the CDFI Fund shall, to the maximum extent practicable, provide the Recipient with written notice of the proposed sanction and an opportunity to comment. Nothing in this section, however, shall provide a Recipient to any formal or informal hearing or comparable proceeding not otherwise required by law.
§ 1806.504
Retention of records.
A Recipient must comply with all record retention requirements as set forth in the Uniform Administrative Requirements.
Pt. 1807

# PART 1807—CAPITAL MAGNET FUND

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1807.100
Purpose.
1807.101
Summary.
1807.102
Relationship to other CDFI Fund programs.
1807.103
Recipient not instrumentality.
1807.104
Definitions.
1807.105
Waiver authority.
1807.106
Presumptive Compliance with Other Federal Programs.
1807.107
Applicability of regulations for CMF Awards.

# Subpart B—Eligibility
1807.200
Applicant eligibility.
1807.201-1807.299
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Eligible Purposes; Eligible Uses; Restrictions
1807.300
Eligible purposes.
1807.301
Eligible Uses.
1807.302
Restrictions on use of a CMF Award.
1807.303
Authorized uses of Program Income.

# Subpart D—Qualification as Affordable Housing
1807.400
Affordable Housing-general.
1807.401
Affordable Housing-Rental Housing.
1807.402
Affordable Housing-Homeownership.
1807.403
Economic Development Activities.

# Subpart E—Leveraged Capital; Eligible Project Costs; Commitment; Project Completion
1807.500
Leveraged Capital; Eligible Project Costs.
1807.501
Commitments.
1807.502
CMF Award limits.
1807.503
Project Completion; Property standards.

# Subpart F—Tracking Funds; Uniform Administrative Requirements; Nature of Funds
1807.600
Tracking funds.
1807.601
Uniform Administrative Requirements.
1807.602
Nature of funds.

# Subpart G—Notice of Funds Availability; Applications
1807.700
Notice of funds availability.
1807.701-1807.799
[Reserved]

# Subpart H—Evaluation and Selection of Applications
1807.800
Evaluation and selection-general.
1807.801
Evaluation of Applications.

# Subpart I—Terms and Conditions of a CMF Award
1807.900
Assistance agreement.
1807.901
Payment of funds.
1807.902
Data collection and reporting.
1807.903
Compliance with government requirements.
1807.904
Lobbying restrictions.
1807.905
Criminal provisions.
1807.906
CDFI Fund deemed not to control.
1807.907
Limitation on liability.
1807.908
Fraud, waste and abuse.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 4569.

# Source:
89 FR 53015, June 25, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1807.100
Purpose.
The purpose of the Capital Magnet Fund (CMF) is to attract private capital for and increase investment in Affordable Housing Activities and related Economic Development Activities in every State of the United States, the District of Columbia, or territories of the United States.
§ 1807.101
Summary.
(a) Through the CMF, the CDFI Fund competitively awards grants to Certified CDFIs and qualified Nonprofit Organizations to leverage dollars for:
(1) The Development, Preservation, Rehabilitation or Purchase of Affordable Housing primarily for Low-Income Families; and
(2) The financing of Economic Development Activities.
(b) The CDFI Fund selects Recipients to receive CMF Awards through a competitive Application process. CMF Awards may only be used for Eligible Uses set forth in subpart C of this part. Each Recipient will enter into an Assistance Agreement that will require it to leverage the CMF Award amount and abide by other terms and conditions pertinent to any assistance received under this part.
§ 1807.102
Relationship to other CDFI Fund programs.
Restrictions on applying for, receiving, and using the CMF Awards in conjunction with awards under other programs administered by the CDFI Fund are set forth in the applicable funding notice.
§ 1807.103
Recipient not instrumentality.
No Recipient shall be deemed to be an agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States.
§ 1807.104
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part:
Act
means the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, as amended, Public Law 110-289, section 1131;
Affiliate
means any entity that Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common Control with, an entity;
Affordability Period
means a period of at least 10 years or other longer time period in the applicable NOFA issued by the CDFI Fund, during which time the Recipient must ensure the affordability requirements set forth herein and/or the Assistance Agreement are met for each Project;
Affordable Housing
means housing that meets the requirements set forth in subpart D of this part;
Affordable Housing Activities
means the Development, Preservation, Rehabilitation, and/or Purchase of Affordable Housing or Secondary Market Mortgage Purchase;
Affordable Housing Fund
means an investment fund consisting of the CMF Award and any Leveraged Capital that the Recipient:
(1) Manages and makes investment decisions for; and
(2) Uses to finance Affordable Housing Activities in any combination of debt, grant, or equity investments, which does not include the purchase of stock, securities, or the buy-out of partnership interests;
Applicant
means any entity submitting an Application for a CMF Award;
Application
means the CDFI Fund's CMF application form, including any written or verbal information in connection therewith and any exhibits, attachments, appendices and/or written
or verbal supplements thereto, submitted by an Applicant to the CDFI Fund, in response to the applicable Notice of Funds Availability (NOFA);
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency
has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(q), and includes, with respect to Insured Credit Unions, the National Credit Union Administration;
Appropriate State Agency
means an agency or instrumentality of a State that regulates and/or insures the member accounts of a State-Insured Credit Union;
Assistance Agreement
means a formal, written agreement between the CDFI Fund and a Recipient that specifies the terms and conditions of assistance under this part;
Capital Magnet Fund (or CMF)
means the program authorized by the Act and implemented under this part;
Certified Community Development Financial Institution (or Certified CDFI)
means an entity that has been determined by the CDFI Fund to meet the certification requirements set forth in 12 CFR 1805.201;
CMF Award
means the financial assistance in the form of a grant made by the CDFI Fund to a Recipient pursuant to this part;
CMF Unit
means
(1) A single residential unit of Housing financed or supported with a CMF Award, rented or owned by a Family, with dedicated kitchen and bath facilities that meets the requirements of subparts D and E, as applicable; or
(2) A single-room occupancy (SRO) unit, a group home, or an assisted living facility with shared common kitchen and bath facilities accompanied by an individual lease for each tenant that meets the requirements of subparts D and E of this part;
Committed for Use
means as set forth in § 1807.501, that the Recipient is able to demonstrate, in written form and substance that is acceptable to the CDFI Fund, a commitment for Eligible Use of the CMF Award;
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (or CDFI Fund)
means the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, established pursuant to the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.;
Community Service Facility
means the physical structure in which service programs directly benefit nearby residents of any affordable housing. These service programs serve residents of affordable housing and include, but are not limited to, health care, childcare, educational programs including literacy and after school programs, job training, food and nutrition services, arts, and/or social services, as further set forth in the Assistance Agreement;
Concerted Strategy
means a formal planning document that evidences the connection between Affordable Housing Activities and Economic Development Activities. Such documents include, but are not limited to, a comprehensive, consolidated, or redevelopment plan, or some other local or regional planning document adopted or approved by the jurisdiction;
Control
means:
(1) Ownership, control, or power to vote 25 percent or more of the outstanding shares of any class of Voting Securities of any company, directly or indirectly or acting through one or more other persons;
(2) Control in any manner over the election of a majority of the directors, trustees, or general partners (or individuals exercising similar functions) of any company; or
(3) The power to exercise, directly or indirectly, a controlling influence over the management, credit or investment decisions, or policies of any company;
Depository Institution Holding Company
means a bank holding company or a savings and loan holding company as each are defined in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(w);
Development
means any combination of the following activities: Land acquisition, demolition of existing facilities, and construction of new facilities, which may include site improvement, utilities development and rehabilitation of utilities, necessary infrastructure, utility services, conversion, and other related activities resulting in Affordable Housing;
Direct Administrative Expenses
as described in 2 CFR 200.413 of the Uniform Administrative Requirements, means
direct costs incurred by the Recipient, related to the financing and/or in support of Projects;
Economic Development Activity
means the development, preservation, acquisition and/or rehabilitation of Community Service Facilities and/or other physical structures in which businesses operate in order to implement a Concerted Strategy to stabilize, sustain, or revitalize communities and neighborhoods physically proximate to any affordable housing benefiting a Low-Income Area or Underserved Rural Area, subject to subpart D of this part;
Economic Development Activity Fund
means an investment fund consisting of the CMF Award and any Leveraged Capital that the Recipient:
(1) Manages and makes investment decisions for; and
(2) Uses to finance Economic Development Activities in any combination of debt, grant, or equity, which does not include the purchase of stock, securities, or the buy-out of partnership interests;
Effective Date
means the date that the Assistance Agreement is effective; such date is determined by the CDFI Fund after the Recipient has returned an executed Assistance Agreement, along with all required supporting documentation, including an opinion from its legal counsel, if required;
Eligible-Income
means having, in the case of owner-occupied or rental Housing units, annual income at 120 percent or below of the area median income, adjusted for Family size, in the same manner as HUD makes these adjustments for its other published income limits;
Eligible Project Costs
means all eligible development, financing, refinancing, acquisition, relocation, loan loss reserve, guarantee, predevelopment, and related soft costs incurred in the achievement of Project Completion, as described in the Assistance Agreement, paid using a CMF Award and any Leveraged Capital;
Eligible Uses
means allowable uses of the CMF Award set forth in § 1807.301;
Extremely Low-Income
means, in the case of owner-occupied or rental Housing units, having income at 30 percent or below of the area median income, adjusted for Family size, as determined by HUD, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 30 percent of the median for the area on the basis of HUD findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low incomes;
Family
means a household of one or more persons living in the same dwelling unit. All persons in a household who are related by birth, marriage or adoption are regarded as members of the Family. A Family may also include individuals living in a household who are not related to each other;
Feasibility Determination Expenses
mean direct costs, as defined by the Uniform Administrative Requirements, and incurred by the Recipient to determine the feasibility of potential Affordable Housing Activities and/or Economic Development Activities to implement the CMF Award. These costs must be incurred before Project Commitment. Costs designated as Feasibility Determination Expenses cannot be deemed as Eligible Project Costs. Such expenses may include, but are not limited to, preliminary market studies, engineering, architectural analyses, financial feasibility analyses, and other costs as further detailed in the Assistance Agreement and guidance provided by the CDFI Fund;
Homebuyer
means a Family that does not currently own any Single-family housing or is in the process of selling and replacing their primary residence. A Homebuyer may not own any other Single-family housing or Multi-family housing. Notwithstanding this definition, a Homebuyer includes a Family that owns a manufactured housing unit and is in the process of replacing or refinancing it, or owns a manufactured housing unit as part of the conversion of a manufactured housing park to a tenant-owned park or cooperative;
HOME Program
means the HOME Investment Partnership Program established by the HOME Investment Partnerships Act under title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 12701
et seq.;
Homeownership
means ownership interest in a home in fee simple, or by condominium, cooperative, mutual
housing, or ground lease title interest, as allowed under State law, in one- to four-unit Single-family housing, or ownership of a manufactured housing unit. The ownership interest is subject to the following additional requirements:
(1) Ownership interest may not merely consist of a right of possession under a contract for deed, installment contract, or land contract pursuant to which the deed is not given until the final payment is made; and
(2) Ownership interest is subject to the restrictions on affordability permitted under the Assistance Agreement and this part; mortgages, deeds of trust, or other liens or instruments securing debt on the property; or any other restrictions or encumbrances that do not impair the good and marketable nature of title to the ownership interest;
Homeownership Program
means an affordable housing program established by a Recipient for the purpose of providing direct financing or grants to Homebuyers to purchase Single-family housing. The Project Commitment requirements of § 1807.501 are satisfied if the board of directors of the Recipient makes a Project Commitment of the CMF Award to the Homeownership Program by resolution in a form and substance acceptable to the CDFI Fund;
Housing
means Single-family and Multi-family residential units including, but not limited to, manufactured housing, permanent supportive housing, single-room occupancy (SRO) housing, assisted living, and group homes that are permanent in nature and not temporary, short term, transitional, or a dormitory, as further set forth by the CDFI Fund;
HUD
means the Department of Housing and Urban Development established under the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965, 42 U.S.C. 3532
et seq.;
Indian Tribe
means any Indian Tribe, band, pueblo, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation, as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
). Each such Indian Tribe must be recognized as eligible for special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians;
Insured CDFI
means a Certified CDFI that is an Insured Depository Institution or an Insured Credit Union;
Insured Credit Union
means any credit union, the member accounts of which are insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund by the National Credit Union Administration pursuant to authority granted in 12 U.S.C. 1783
et seq.;
Insured Depository Institution
means any bank or thrift, the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation pursuant to authority granted in 12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(2);
Investment Period
means the period beginning with the Effective Date and ending on the fifth year anniversary of the Effective Date, or such other period as may be established by the CDFI Fund in the Assistance Agreement;
Leveraged Capital
means capital raised to finance the costs for Affordable Housing Activities and Economic Development Activities that exceeds the dollar amount of the CMF Award, as further described in § 1807.500;
Loan Guarantee
means the Recipient's use of the CMF Award to support an agreement to indemnify the holder of a loan for all or a portion of the unpaid principal balance in case of default by the borrower. The proceeds of the loan that is guaranteed with the CMF Award must be used for Affordable Housing Activities and/or Economic Development Activities;
Loan Loss Reserves
means proceeds from the CMF Award that the Recipient will set aside in the form of cash reserves, or through accounting-based accrual reserves, to cover losses on loans, accounts, and notes receivable for Affordable Housing Activities and/or Economic Development Activities, or for related purposes that the CDFI Fund deems appropriate;
Low-Income
means, in the case of owner-occupied or rental Housing units, having income at 80 percent or below of the area median income, adjusted for Family size, as determined by HUD, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower
than 80 percent of the median for the area on the basis of HUD findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low Family incomes;
Low-Income Area (or LIA)
means a census tract in which the median family income does not exceed 80 percent of the area median family income. With respect to a census tract located within a Metropolitan Area, the median family income shall be at or below 80 percent of the Metropolitan Area median family income or the national Metropolitan Area median family income, whichever is greater. In the case of a census tract located outside of a Metropolitan Area, the median family income shall be at or below 80 percent of the statewide Non-Metropolitan Area median family income or the national Non-Metropolitan Area median family income, whichever is greater;
Low Income Housing Tax Credits (or LIHTCs)
means credits against income tax under section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, 26 U.S.C. 42;
Metropolitan Area
means an area designated as such by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3504(e) and 31 U.S.C. 1104(d) and Executive Order 10253 (3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp., p. 758), as amended, and as made available by the CDFI Fund for a specific Application funding round;
Multi-family housing
means residential properties consisting of five or more dwelling units, such as a condominium unit, cooperative unit, or an apartment;
Non-Metropolitan Area
means counties that are designated as Non-Metropolitan Counties by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3504(e) and 31 U.S.C. 1104(d) and Executive Order 10253 (3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp., p. 758), as amended, and as made available by the CDFI Fund for a specific Application funding round;
Nonprofit Organization
means any corporation, trust, association, cooperative, or other organization that is:
(1) Designated as a nonprofit or not-for-profit entity under the laws of the organization's State or Indian Tribe of formation;
(2) Exempt from Federal income taxation pursuant to section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, with the exception of organizations affiliated with Indian Tribes; and
(3) Able to demonstrate, as set forth in the NOFA, that a share of its total assets is dedicated to the development or management of affordable housing;
Payment
means the transmission of CMF Award dollars from the CDFI Fund to the Recipient;
Permanent Housing
means Housing that is owned or is rented under a written lease with an initial lease term of six months or more;
Preservation
means the acquisition, refinancing, recapitalization, of existing Multi-family rental housing or Single-family housing, with or without Rehabilitation, to create, maintain, or extend the affordability requirement as provided in subpart D of this part. Preservation may include the refinancing of owner-occupied Single-family housing or Multi-family rental housing to extend the existing affordability restrictions set to expire during the Investment Period, or other timeline as defined by the CDFI Fund, by at least an additional 10-year Affordability Period or as set forth in the Assistance Agreement. Preservation may also include the imposition of a new Affordability Period on Housing not currently subject to affordability restrictions;
Presumptively Compliant
or
Presumptive Compliance
means certain rules, requirements and designations under other Federal housing programs that the CDFI Fund deems to meet certain CMF requirements;
Program Income
means gross income as described in 2 CFR part 200 and as further specified in the Recipient's Assistance Agreement;
Project
means a specific Affordable Housing Activity, Economic Development Activity, or Homeownership Program the Recipient uses its CMF Award to finance or support, resulting in Project Completion;
Project Commitment
means that the Recipient is able to demonstrate, in written form and substance that is acceptable to the CDFI Fund, a commitment to a Project as set forth in § 1807.501;
Project Completion
means that all of the requirements set forth at § 1807.503 for a Project have been met;
Purchase
means to use a CMF Award to provide financing to:
(1) A Family for Homeownership that meet the qualifications set forth in subparts D and E; or
(2) A developer or project sponsor for the acquisition of rental Housing that must meet the qualifications set forth in subparts D and E of this part;
Recipient
means an Applicant selected by the CDFI Fund to receive a CMF Award pursuant to this part;
Rehabilitation
means any repairs and/or capital improvements that contribute to the long-term preservation, current building code compliance, habitability, sustainability, or energy efficiency of Affordable Housing;
Revolving Loan Fund
means an investment fund consisting of the CMF Award and any Leveraged Capital that the Recipient:
(1) Manages and approves lending decisions for; and
(2) Uses to finance Affordable Housing Activities and/or Economic Development Activities wherein the repayments on such loans are used to finance additional loans;
Risk-Sharing Loan
means loans consisting of the CMF Award and any Leveraged Capital made for Affordable Housing Activities and/or Economic Development Activities in which the risk of borrower default is shared by the Recipient with other lenders (
e.g.,
participation loans);
Rural Area
means a census tract that meets the definition of Rural Area per 12 CFR 1282.1 (Enterprise Duty To Serve Final Rule) that is: A census tract outside of a Metropolitan Statistical Area as designated by the Office of Management and Budget; or A census tract in a Metropolitan Statistical Area as designated by the Office of Management and Budget that is outside of the Metropolitan Statistical Area's Urbanized Areas, as designated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural-Urban Commuting Area (RUCA) Code #1, and outside of tracts with a housing density of over 64 housing units per square mile for USDA's RUCA Code #2;
Secondary Market Mortgage
means a mortgage:
(1) Originated by a qualified third party lender as defined in guidance by the CDFI Fund and purchased by the Recipient in 12 months or less from the date of its origination using a CMF Award and evidenced by an agreement that meets subparts C, D and E of this part;
(2) For which the source of the origination is not the CMF Award; and
(3) That would not have been originated but for the Recipient's Secondary Market Mortgage Purchase;
Secondary Market Mortgage Purchase
means the purchase of a Secondary Market Mortgage;
Service Area
means the geographic area in which the Applicant proposes to use the CMF Award, and the geographic area approved by the CDFI Fund in which the Recipient must use the CMF Award as set forth in its Assistance Agreement. Service Area may include a national Service Area for Rural Areas and additional areas that may be defined by the CDFI Fund in the applicable NOFA;
Single-family housing
means a one- to four- unit Family residence, a condominium unit, a cooperative unit, mutual housing, a manufactured housing unit only, or the combination of a manufactured housing unit and lot;
State
means the states of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any territory of the United States;
State-Insured Credit Union
means any credit union that is regulated by, and/or the member accounts of which are insured by, a State agency or instrumentality;
Subsidiary
means any company that is majority owned, or Controlled directly, or indirectly, by another company. For purposes of ownership, a Subsidiary's parent company possesses more than 50 percent ownership of the Subsidiary;
Underserved Rural Area
means all Rural Areas as defined as a census tract that meets the definition of Rural Area per 12 CFR 1282.1 (Enterprise Duty To Serve Final Rule) that is: A census tract outside of a Metropolitan Statistical Area as designated by the Office of Management and Budget; or A census tract in a Metropolitan
Statistical Area as designated by the Office of Management and Budget that is outside of the Metropolitan Statistical Area's Urbanized Areas, as designated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural-Urban Commuting Area (RUCA) Code #1, and outside of tracts with a housing density of over 64 housing units per square mile for USDA's RUCA Code #2;
Uniform Administrative Requirements
means the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards (2 CFR part 200);
Very Low-Income
means, in the case of owner-occupied or rental Housing, having income at 60 percent or below of the area median income, with adjustments for Family size, as determined by HUD, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 60 percent of the median for the area on the basis of HUD findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low Family incomes;
§ 1807.105
Waiver authority.
The CDFI Fund may waive any requirement of this part that is not required by law upon a determination of good cause. Each such waiver shall be in writing and supported by a statement of the facts and the grounds forming the basis of the waiver. For a waiver in an individual case, the CDFI Fund must determine that application of the requirement to be waived would not adversely affect achieving the purposes of the Act. For waivers of general applicability, the CDFI Fund will publish notification of granted waivers in the
Federal Register
.
§ 1807.106
Presumptive Compliance with Other Federal Programs.
The CDFI Fund may deem certain other Federal program requirements, designations and/or reporting criteria as being Presumptively Compliant with any of the CMF program requirements set forth herein. Recipients participating in and meeting the program requirements of such designated Federal programs may be deemed compliant with certain CMF program requirements, as provided for in the Assistance Agreement or other CDFI Fund guidance and materials.
§ 1807.107
Applicability of regulations for CMF Awards.
(a) The regulations of this part are applicable for all uncommitted funds from prior CMF Awards issued as of June 25, 2024, as well as all CMF Awards made pursuant to all Notices of Funds Availability published after June 25, 2024.
(b) The definition of “Nonprofit Organization” is applicable to any Notice of Funds Availability published on or after January 1, 2026; until that time, the definition of “Nonprofit Organization” in § 1807.104 of the 2016 interim rule remains in effect.

# Subpart B—Eligibility
§ 1807.200
Applicant eligibility.
(a)
General requirements.
An Applicant will be deemed eligible to apply for a CMF Award if it is:
(1) A Certified CDFI. An entity may meet the requirements described in this paragraph (a)(1) if it is:
(i) A Certified CDFI, as set forth in 12 CFR 1805.201;
(ii) A Certified CDFI that has been in existence as a legally formed entity as set forth in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability (NOFA); or
(2) A Nonprofit Organization having as one of its principal purposes, the development or management of affordable housing. A Nonprofit Organization may meet the requirements described in this paragraph (a)(2) if it:
(i) Has been in existence as a legally formed entity as set forth in the applicable NOFA;
(ii) Demonstrates, through articles of incorporation, by-laws, or other board- approved documents, that the development or management of affordable housing are among its principal purposes; and
(iii) Demonstrates, by providing information described in the Application, NOFA, and/or supplemental information, as may be requested by the CDFI Fund, that a certain percentage, set forth in the applicable NOFA, of the Applicant's total assets are dedicated to the development or management of affordable housing.
(b)
Eligibility verification.
An Applicant shall demonstrate that it meets the eligibility requirements described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section by providing information described in the Application, NOFA, and/or supplemental information, as may be requested by the CDFI Fund. For an Applicant seeking eligibility under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the CDFI Fund will verify that the Applicant is a Certified CDFI as described in the applicable NOFA.
§§ 1807.201-1807.299
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Eligible Purposes; Eligible Uses; Restrictions
§ 1807.300
Eligible purposes.
Each Recipient must use its CMF Award for the Eligible Uses described in § 1807.301 so long as such Eligible Uses increase private capital for and increase investment in:
(a) Development, Preservation, Rehabilitation, and/or Purchase of Affordable Housing for primarily Extremely Low-Income, Very Low-Income, and Low-Income Families; and
(b) Economic Development Activities, as further described in § 1807.403, which stabilize, sustain, or revitalize communities and neighborhoods and must be: located in a Low-Income Area or Underserved Rural Area; undertaken in conjunction with any affordable housing that is authorized as such under applicable local, State or Federal housing program laws, and reasonably available to, physically proximate to, and beneficial to residents of affordable housing.
§ 1807.301
Eligible Uses.
The Recipient must use its CMF Award to finance and support Affordable Housing Activities and/or Economic Development Activities through the following Eligible Uses:
(a) To capitalize Loan Loss Reserves;
(b) To capitalize a Revolving Loan Fund;
(c) To capitalize an Affordable Housing Fund;
(d) To capitalize an Economic Development Activity Fund;
(e) To make Risk-Sharing Loans; and
(f) To provide Loan Guarantees.
§ 1807.302
Restrictions on use of a CMF Award.
(a) The Recipient may not use its CMF Award for the following:
(1) Political activities;
(2) Advocacy;
(3) Lobbying, whether directly or through other parties;
(4) Counseling services (including Homebuyer or financial counseling);
(5) Travel expenses;
(6) Preparing or providing advice on tax returns;
(7) Emergency shelters (including shelters for disaster victims);
(8) Nursing homes;
(9) Convalescent homes;
(10) Residential treatment facilities;
(11) Correctional facilities; or
(12) Dormitories.
(b) The Recipient shall not use the CMF Award to finance or support Projects that include:
(1) The operation of any private or commercial golf course, country club, massage parlor, hot tub facility, suntan facility, racetrack or other facility used for gambling, or any store the principal business of which is the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption off premises, or any of the businesses of activities set forth in 13 CFR 120.110(c) through (p), or any other businesses deemed inconsistent with the general purpose the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
); or
(2) Farming activities (within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) section 2032A(e)(5)(A) or (B)), if, as of the close of the taxable year of the taxpayer conducting such trade or business, the sum of the aggregate unadjusted bases (or, if greater, the fair market value) of the assets owned by the taxpayer that are used in such a trade or business, and the aggregate value of the assets leased by the taxpayer that are used in such trade or business, exceeds $500,000.
(c) For each individual CMF Award, the Recipient may not use more than 30 percent of its CMF Award for Economic Development Activities, if such use is approved in its applicable Assistance Agreement.
(d) Any Recipient that uses its CMF Award for a Loan Guarantee or Loan Loss Reserves must ensure that loan(s)
made pursuant to a Loan Guarantee or Loan Loss Reserves finance Affordable Housing Activities and/or Economic Development Activities. The Affordable Housing resulting from the Recipient's Loan Guarantee or Loan Loss Reserve shall be tracked during the Affordability Period for compliance with the affordability requirements as set forth in subpart D of this part.
(e) If loans that are made pursuant to a Loan Guarantee or Loan Loss Reserves are repaid during the Investment Period, the Recipient must use the funds made available by the loan repayment as Program Income as set forth in the Recipient's Assistance Agreement.
(f) The Recipient may use its CMF Award for Direct Administrative Expenses or Feasibility Determination Expenses at amounts set forth in the applicable NOFA and corresponding Assistance Agreement. Neither Direct Administrative Expenses nor Feasibility Determination Expenses can be attributable to Eligible Project Costs for a Project.
§ 1807.303
Authorized uses of Program Income.
(a) Program Income earned in the form of principal and equity repayments must be used by the Recipient in the manner further set forth in the Assistance Agreement.
(b) Program Income earned in the form of interest payments, and all other forms of Program Income (except for that which is earned as described in paragraph (a) of this section), must be used by the Recipient as set forth in the Assistance Agreement and in accordance with 2 CFR part 200.

# Subpart D—Qualification as Affordable Housing
§ 1807.400
Affordable Housing—General.
(a) For any amount of the CMF Award used for Affordable Housing Activities, 100 percent of such Eligible Project Costs must be attributable to Affordable Housing, meaning that the Affordable Housing complies with the affordability qualifications set forth in this subpart for Eligible-Income Families. Further, as a subset of said 100 percent, greater than 50 percent of the Eligible Project Costs must be attributable to Affordable Housing that comply with the affordability qualifications set forth in this subpart for Low-Income, Very Low-Income, or Extremely Low-Income Families, or as further set forth in the applicable NOFA and/or Assistance Agreement.
(b) Affordable Housing must be Permanent Housing.
(c) All the occupants of the Affordable Housing must not be full-time students unless they are:
(1) Married students who file a joint tax return;
(2) Students who receive assistance under Title IV of the Social Security Act;
(3) Students enrolled in a job training program;
(4) Students who are single parents with children who are their dependents, as defined in IRC sec. 152;
(5) Students who previously were part of a foster care program; or
(6) Meet other criteria specified by the CDFI Fund.
§ 1807.401
Affordable Housing—Rental Housing.
To qualify as Affordable Housing, each rental Multi-family housing Project financed with a CMF Award must have at least 20 percent of the units rent-restricted to any combination of Low-Income, Very Low-Income, or Extremely Low-Income Families and must comply with the rent limits as set forth in the applicable NOFA and Assistance Agreement in any CMF funding round. The CDFI Fund may require a greater percentage of the units per Project to be income-targeted and/or require a specific targeted income commitment in any given CMF round, as set forth in the applicable NOFA and Assistance Agreement.
(a)
Rent limitations.
The gross rent limits for Affordable Housing are further specified in the Assistance Agreement.
(b)
Nondiscrimination against rental assistance subsidy holders.
The Recipient shall require that the owner of a rental unit cannot refuse to lease the unit to a Section 8 Program certificate or
voucher holder (24 CFR part 982, Section 8 Tenant-Based Assistance: Unified Rule for Tenant-Based Assistance under the Section 8 Rental Certificate Program and the Section 8 Rental Voucher Program) or to the holder of a comparable document evidencing participation in a HOME tenant-based rental assistance program because of the status of the prospective tenant as a holder of such certificate, voucher, or comparable HOME tenant-based assistance document.
(c)
Initial rent schedule and utility allowances.
The Recipient shall ensure that utility allowances and submetering rules are consistent with regulations concerning utility allowances and submetering in buildings that are subject to gross rent restrictions as set forth in the Assistance Agreement and under IRC sec. 42(g)(2), as applicable.
(d)
Periods of affordability.
Housing under this section must meet the affordability requirements during the Affordability Period. The affordability requirements apply without regard to the term of any loan or mortgage or the transfer of ownership and must be imposed by deed restrictions, covenants running with the land, or other recording instruments. Upon receipt of a written approval from the CDFI Fund, a Recipient may use a different recording instrument as provided for in the Assistance Agreement. The affordability restrictions are allowed to terminate upon foreclosure or transfer in lieu of foreclosure. To the extent allowed under State law, in the event of a sale of property at foreclosure, transfer in lieu of foreclosure, short sale or other types of disposition, proceeds available to pay off a mortgage financed with a CMF Award shall be treated as Program Income.
(e)
Standard lease terms and conditions.
All tenants occupying rental CMF Units shall be required to enter into a written lease or rental agreement setting forth the terms and requirements which are, but not limited to, compliance with applicable State and local law.
(f)
Tenant income determination.
(1) At the time of each initial lease and occupancy, the tenant income shall be determined to ascertain income eligibility. During the Affordability Period, the existing tenant income shall be re-examined in a manner as set forth in the Assistance Agreement. Tenant income examination and verification are ultimately the responsibility of the Recipient. Tenant income shall include income from all Family members. The Recipient must require the Project owner to obtain information on rents and occupancy of Affordable Housing financed or supported with a CMF Award in order to demonstrate compliance with this section.
(2) One of the following two definitions of “annual income” must be used to determine whether a Family is income-eligible:
(i) Adjusted gross income as defined for purposes of reporting under Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 1040 series for individual Federal annual income tax purposes; or
(ii) Annual Income as defined at 24 CFR 5.609 (except that when determining the income of a homeowner for an owner-occupied Rehabilitation Project, the value of the homeowner's principal residence may be excluded from the calculation of “Net Family Assets,” as defined in 24 CFR 5.603).
(3) The CDFI Fund reserves the right to deem certain government programs, under which a Family is a recipient, as income eligible for purposes of meeting the tenant income requirements under this section.
(g)
Over-income tenants.
(1) CMF Units continue to qualify as Affordable Housing despite a temporary noncompliance caused by increases in the incomes of existing tenants if actions satisfactory to the CDFI Fund are being taken to ensure that all vacancies are filled in accordance with this section until the noncompliance is corrected.
(2) The maximum rent for tenants whose incomes no longer qualify is either 30 percent of the Family's annual income, or the amount payable by the tenants under State or local law, whichever is less; however, tenants whose income exceeds the Eligible-Income level are not required to pay rent in excess of the market rent for comparable, unassisted units in the neighborhood.
(3) If the income of a tenant of a CMF Unit no longer qualifies, the Recipient may designate another unit within the
Project as a rent-restricted replacement unit that meets the affordability qualifications for the same income category as the original unit, as further set forth in the Recipient's Assistance Agreement. If there is not an available replacement unit, the Recipient must fill the first available vacancy with a tenant that meets the affordability qualifications for the same income category of the original unit as necessary to maintain compliance with the CMF requirements and the Assistance Agreement.
§ 1807.402
Affordable Housing—Homeownership.
(a)
Purchase with or without Rehabilitation.
(1) A Recipient that uses the CMF Award to finance or support the Purchase of Housing by a qualified Homebuyer must ensure that the Housing and Homebuyer meet the affordability requirements of this subpart as follows:
(i)
Single-family housing.
The Housing must be a Single-family housing.
(ii)
Purchase price limits.
The Single-family housing does not exceed the purchase price limits for the area under the HUD FHA Section 203(b) Mortgage Insurance Program, or any other index designated by the CDFI Fund as set forth in the applicable Assistance Agreement; the related mortgage must be originated based upon an assessment of whether the Homebuyer can repay the loan based on terms and conditions that are transparent and understandable to the Homebuyer, and the mortgage is affordable to the Homebuyer over the life of the loan.
(iii)
Qualifying Homebuyer.
The Single-family housing must be purchased by a qualifying Homebuyer.
(iv)
Eligible-Income requirements.
A qualifying Homebuyer must have a household income at no greater than Eligible-Income. To determine whether a Homebuyer qualifies as Eligible Income (or at any other income level specified in the Assistance Agreement) under this section, the Recipient must use the Homebuyer's adjusted gross income as defined under Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 1040 series for individual Federal annual income tax reporting purposes, or other methodology for determining income eligibility as provided in the Assistance Agreement. Homebuyers of one- to four- unit Single-family housing may rent the additional unit(s) as Permanent Housing if at least one unit is maintained as the principal residence of the Homebuyer.
(v)
Periods of affordability.
Single-family housing under this section must become the principal residence of the Homebuyer at the time of Purchase and is subject to the affordability requirements during the Affordability Period and as further set forth in § 1807.402(a)(1)(vi). The Affordability Period does not apply to additional units rented as Permanent Housing, as described in § 1807.402(a)(1)(iv).
(vi)
Resale.
To ensure that the CMF Awards are being used for qualifying Families during the Affordability Period, recoupment, replacement, and/or resale strategies must be established and imposed by the Recipient. A recoupment, replacement, and/or resale strategy must ensure that:
(A) In the event the qualifying Family sells the Housing in five years or less from the date of Purchase, the Housing must be sold to an Eligible-Income Family meeting the qualifications set forth in § 1807.402. Otherwise, the CMF Award investment must be recouped by the Recipient and the Housing replaced with a replacement unit to satisfy the affordability requirement for the remainder of the Affordability Period. If the Housing is replaced, the replacement unit must be sold to an Eligible-Income Family and must also meet the qualifications set forth in § 1807.402.
(B) In the event the qualifying Family sells the Housing any time after five years from the date of Purchase but before the end of the Affordability Period, the Housing must either be sold to a new Eligible-Income Family or, if the Housing is not sold to an Eligible-Income Family, the CMF investment must be recouped as Program Income in a proportional amount from net sale proceeds, as further set forth in the Assistance Agreement. If the Housing is not sold to an Eligible-Income Family after the five-year anniversary of the Purchase date and the Recipient recoups a proportional amount of the CMF Awards as Program Income, the
Recipient is not required to replace the sold Housing with a replacement unit.
(2) The Recipient may design and implement its own recoupment, replacement, and/or resale strategy, subject to the requirements of § 1807.402(a)(1)(vi) to maintain compliance with the CMF requirements and the Assistance Agreement. Deed restrictions, covenants running with the land, or other similar instruments may be used as the mechanism to impose a strategy. The Recipient shall report to the CDFI Fund the event of resale and/or recoupment and redeployment of the CMF Award, or an equivalent amount, in the manner described in the Assistance Agreement or other guidance issued by the CDFI Fund.
(3) The affordability restrictions are allowed to terminate upon occurrence of any of the following termination events: foreclosure, transfer in lieu of foreclosure, or assignment of an FHA-insured mortgage to HUD. The termination of the affordability restrictions pursuant to any of the aforementioned terminating events will result in the Housing no longer being subject to a recoupment, replacement, and/or resale strategy as previously imposed by the Recipient. The Recipient may use purchase options, rights of first refusal or other preemptive rights to purchase the Housing before foreclosure to preserve affordability. The affordability restrictions shall be revived according to the original terms if, during the original Affordability Period, the owner of record before the termination event obtains an ownership interest in the Housing.
(b)
Rehabilitation not involving purchase.
Single-family housing that is currently owned by a qualifying Family, as set forth in § 1807.400, qualifies as Affordable Housing if it meets the following requirements of this paragraph (b):
(1) The estimated value of the Single-family housing, after Rehabilitation, does not exceed the purchase price limits for the area, as used in the HUD FHA Section 203(b) Mortgage Insurance Program, or any other index designated by the CDFI Fund. The underlying mortgage(s) should be affordable for the Homebuyer;
(2) The Single-family housing is owned by a qualifying Family as set forth in § 1807.400 and is the only principal residence of the Family at the time of Project Commitment and remains the principal residence of the Family throughout the Affordability Period as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section;
(3) Single-family housing under this paragraph (b) must meet the affordability requirements during the Affordability Period upon Project Completion or meet the recoupment, replacement, and/or resale provisions of paragraph (a)(5) of this section; and
(4) Single-family housing under this paragraph (b) currently owned by a qualifying Family may be rehabilitated to convert a portion of the Housing into one to three permanent additional units, each with a separate means of ingress/egress, kitchen, sleeping area, bathing area, and bathroom facilities, independent of the primary dwelling. The additional units may be rented as Permanent Housing as long as the primary dwelling remains the principal residence of the Family. While the Affordability Period applies to the primary dwelling, it does not apply to the additional units discussed in this section.
(c)
Ownership interest.
The owner must meet the definition of Homebuyer and the ownership in the Single-family housing assisted under this section must meet the definition of Homeownership as defined in § 1807.104.
(d)
New construction without Purchase.
Newly constructed Single-family housing that is built on property currently owned by a Family that will occupy the Single-family housing upon Project Completion, qualifies as Affordable Housing if it meets the requirements under paragraph (a) of this section.
(e)
Converting rental units to Homeownership units for existing tenants.
Rental CMF Units may be converted to Homeownership units by selling, donating, or otherwise conveying the units to the existing tenants only under an existing documented rent-to-own program to enable the tenants to become Homebuyers in accordance with the requirements of this section. The Homeownership units are subject to a minimum period of affordability equal to
the remaining rental Affordability Period, as further specified in the Assistance Agreement.
§ 1807.403
Economic Development Activities.
A CMF Award used for Economic Development Activities must stabilize, sustain, or revitalize communities and neighborhoods to meet the requirements set forth herein. For each individual CMF Award round, the Recipient may use no more than 30 percent of its CMF Award for Economic Development Activities, if such use is approved in its applicable Assistance Agreement.
(a)
Eligible uses.
A Recipient may use its Economic Development Activity Fund to finance and/or support Economic Development Activities through any Eligible Use pursuant to § 1807.301 except for Affordable Housing Fund.
(b)
Minimum use Term.
Community Service Facilities or physical structures resulting from Economic Development Activities must be used for allowable Economic Development Activities for a minimum of three years commencing with Project Completion.
(c)
Concerted strategy.
Economic Development Activities must complement and be undertaken as part of a Concerted Strategy that includes, but is not limited to, education, employment, transportation, financial services, commercial goods and services and other opportunities in a Low-Income Area or Underserved Rural Area.
(d)
In Conjunction with Affordable Housing Activities.
Economic Development Activities must be:
(1) Located in a Low-Income Area or Underserved Rural Area;
(2) Undertaken in conjunction with any affordable housing that is subject to or authorized by local, State or Federal laws; and
(3) Reasonably available, physically proximate, and benefit residents of such affordable housing. For a Metropolitan Area, the Economic Development Activities must be located within the same census tract or within one mile of such affordable housing. For a Non-Metropolitan Area, Economic Development Activities must be located within the same county, township, or village, or within 10 miles of such affordable housing.

# Subpart E—Leveraged Capital; Eligible Project Costs; Commitments; Project Completion
§ 1807.500
Leveraged Capital; Eligible Project Costs.
(a)
Eligible project costs.
Excluding both the total amount of Direct Administrative Expenses and Feasibility Determination Expenses, each CMF Award must result in Eligible Project Costs that equals at least 10 times the amount of the CMF Award, or some higher standard established by the CDFI Fund in the Recipient's Assistance Agreement. Such Eligible Project Costs must be for Affordable Housing Activities and Economic Development Activities, as set forth in the Assistance Agreement.
(b)
Leveraged capital.
(1) The applicable NOFA and/or the Assistance Agreement may set forth a required multiplier of Leveraged Capital that must be funded by private, non-governmental sources.
(2) The Recipient must report to the CDFI Fund the amount of Leveraged Capital, with the following limitations:
(i) No costs attributable to prohibited uses, as set forth in § 1807.302(a) and (b), may be reported as Leveraged Capital;
(ii) All uses of Leveraged Capital to finance and/or support Affordable Housing Activities shall comply with §§ 1807.400, 1807.401 and 1807.402, and as further described in the Assistance Agreement;
(iii) All uses of Leveraged Capital to finance and/or support Economic Development Activities shall comply with § 1807.403, and as further described in the Assistance Agreement.
§ 1807.501
Commitments.
(a) The CMF Award must be Committed for Use by the Recipient to one or more Eligible Uses as provided in § 1807.301 within two years from the Effective Date of the CMF Award, as such date designated in the Recipient's Assistance Agreement.
(b) The Recipient must achieve Project Commitment of the entire CMF Award within three years from the Effective Date of the CMF Award as designated in the Recipient's Assistance Agreement.
(c) The Recipient must evidence a Project Commitment with a written, legally binding agreement to invest in a Project by providing the CMF Award proceeds to the qualifying Family, developer or project sponsor in which:
(1) Construction on real estate can reasonably be expected to start within 12 months of the Project Commitment agreement date; or
(2) Property title on real estate will be transferred within six months of the Project Commitment agreement date; or
(3) Construction schedule on real estate ensures Project Completion within five years of a date specified in the Assistance Agreement; or
(4) The Recipient has entered into a Secondary Market Mortgage Purchase agreement with a third-party lender to purchase the qualified mortgages and the subject mortgages would not otherwise have been originated by the third-party lender absent that agreement; or
(5) A commitment for a qualified Homeownership Program has been made by the action of the Recipient's Board of Directors; or
(6) The Recipient has entered into a Loan Guarantee agreement or has established a cash reserve, escrow, or accounting-based accrual reserve with a lender or investor for a Loan Loss Reserve.
§ 1807.502
CMF Award limits.
An eligible Applicant and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates may not be awarded more than 15 percent of the aggregate funds available for the CMF Awards during any year.
§ 1807.503
Project Completion; Property standards.
(a) Upon Project Completion, the Project must be placed into service by the date designated in the Assistance Agreement. Project Completion for Affordable Housing Activities and Economic Development Activities occurs, as determined by the CDFI Fund, when:
(1) All necessary title transfer requirements and construction work have been performed;
(2) The property standards of paragraph (b) of this section have been met;
(3) The final drawdown of the CMF Award has been made to the project sponsor or developer;
(4) For Preservation, the refinancing of the loan is closed and the underlying real estate is in compliance with all CMF requirements and, if applicable, Rehabilitation is completed and the requirements set forth in this paragraph (a) are achieved;
(5) For qualified Secondary Market Mortgage Purchase, the loan purchase transaction is complete, all CMF Secondary Market Mortgage requirements are met, and the CMF Award is disbursed to the lender (
i.e.,
seller of the loan);
(6) For Loan Loss Reserves, the Loan Loss Reserve is established and the CMF Award is disbursed to an escrow, cash reserve, or obligated to an accounting-based accrual reserve to secure loans for Affordable Housing or Economic Development Activities that meet the requirements of subpart D of this part;
(7) For Loan Loss Guarantees, the Loan Guarantee is executed guaranteeing loans for Affordable Housing or Economic Development Activities that meet the requirements of subpart D of this part.
(b) By the Project Completion date, the Project must meet the requirements of this part, including the following property standards:
(1)
Code requirements.
Projects that are constructed or Rehabilitated with a CMF Award must meet all applicable State and local codes, Rehabilitation standards, ordinances, and zoning requirements at the time of Project Completion or, in the absence of a State or local building code, the International Residential Code or International Building Code (as applicable) of the International Code Council.
(2)
Other requirements.
In addition, Projects must meet the following requirements:
(i)
Accessibility.
The Project must meet all applicable accessibility requirements set forth at 24 CFR part 8, which implements section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), and Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131 through 12189) implemented at 28 CFR parts 35 and 36, as applicable.
Multi-family housing must meet all applicable design and construction requirements set forth in 24 CFR 100.205 which implement Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (Fair Housing Act)(42 U.S.C. 3601-3619). Those design and construction requirements are the same rules that apply to “covered multifamily dwellings,” as defined in 24 CFR 100.201.
(ii)
Disaster mitigation.
The Project must meet all applicable State and local codes, ordinances, or other disaster mitigation requirements (
e.g.,
earthquake, hurricanes, flooding, wild fires), or other requirements as the Department of Housing and Urban Development has established in 24 CFR part 93.
(iii)
Lead-based paint.
The Project must meet all applicable lead-based paint requirements, including those set forth in 24 CFR part 35.
(3)
Rehabilitation standards.
In addition, all Rehabilitation Projects must meet the following requirements:
(i) For rental Housing, if the remaining useful life of one or more major systems is less than the Affordability Period, the Recipient must ensure that, at Project Completion, the developer or Project sponsor establishes a replacement reserve and that monthly payments are made to the reserve that are adequate to repair or replace the systems as needed. Major systems include: structural support; roofing; cladding and weatherproofing (
e.g.,
windows, doors, siding, gutters); plumbing; electrical; heating, ventilation, and air conditioning.
(ii) For Homeownership Single-family housing, the Recipient must ensure that, at Project Completion, the Housing is decent, safe, sanitary, and in good repair. The Recipient must ensure that timely corrective and remedial actions are taken to address identified life-threatening deficiencies.
(4)
Manufactured housing.
All manufactured housing must meet the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards set forth in 24 CFR part 3280. These standards preempt State and local laws or codes, which are not identical to the Federal standards for the new construction of manufactured housing. The installation of all manufactured housing units must comply with applicable State and local laws or codes. In the absence of such laws or codes, the installation must comply with the manufacturer's written instructions for installation of manufactured housing units. Manufactured housing that is rehabilitated using a CMF Award must meet the requirements set out in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

# Subpart F—Tracking Funds; Uniform Administrative Requirements; Nature of Funds
§ 1807.600
Tracking funds.
The Recipient shall develop and maintain an internal tracking and reporting system that ensures that the CMF Award is used in accordance with this part and the Assistance Agreement.
§ 1807.601
Uniform Administrative Requirements.
The Uniform Administrative Requirements apply to all CMF Awards.
§ 1807.602
Nature of funds.
CMF Awards are Federal financial assistance with regard to the application of Federal civil rights laws.

# Subpart G—Notice of Funds Availability; Applications
§ 1807.700
Notice of funds availability.
Each Applicant must submit a CMF Award Application in accordance with the applicable Notice of Funds Availability (NOFA) published in the
Federal Register.
The NOFA will advise prospective Applicants on how to obtain and complete an Application and will establish deadlines and other requirements. The NOFA will specify Application evaluation factors and any limitations, special rules, procedures, and restrictions for a particular Application round. After receipt of an Application, the CDFI Fund may request clarifying or technical information on the materials submitted as part of the Application.
§§ 1807.701-1807.799
[Reserved]

# Subpart H—Evaluation and Selection of Applications
§ 1807.800
Evaluation and selection—general.
Each Applicant will be evaluated and selected, at the sole discretion of the CDFI Fund, to receive a CMF Award based on a review process that will include a paper or electronic Application, and may include an interview(s) and/or site visit(s), and that is intended to:
(a) Ensure that Applicants are evaluated in a fair and consistent manner based on the criteria outlined in the NOFA;
(b) Ensure that each Recipient can successfully meet its performance goals and achieve Affordable Housing Activity and Economic Development Activity impacts;
(c) Ensure that Recipients represent a geographically diverse group of Applicants serving Metropolitan Areas and Rural Areas across the United States to address economic distress. Criteria of economic distress may include:
(1) The percentage of Low-Income Families or the extent of poverty;
(2) The rate of unemployment or underemployment;
(3) The extent of disinvestment;
(4) Economic Development Activities that target Extremely Low-Income, Very Low-Income, and Low-Income Families within the Recipient's Service Area; and
(5) Any other criteria the CDFI Fund shall set forth in the applicable NOFA; and
(d) Take into consideration other factors as set forth in the applicable NOFA.
§ 1807.801
Evaluation of Applications.
(a)
Eligibility and completeness.
An Applicant will not be eligible to receive a CMF Award if it fails to meet the eligibility requirements described in § 1807.200 and in the applicable NOFA, or if the Applicant has not submitted complete Application materials. For the purposes of this paragraph (a), the CDFI Fund reserves the right to request additional information from the Applicant, if the CDFI Fund deems it appropriate.
(b)
Substantive review.
In evaluating and selecting Applications to receive assistance, the CDFI Fund will evaluate the Applicant's likelihood of success in meeting the factors set forth in the applicable NOFA.
(c)
Other factors.
The CDFI Fund may consider any other factors that it deems appropriate in reviewing an Application, as set forth in the applicable NOFA, the Application and related guidance materials.
(d)
Consultation with appropriate regulatory agencies.
In the case of an Applicant that is a Federally regulated financial institution, the CDFI Fund may consult with the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency prior to making a final award decision and prior to entering into an Assistance Agreement.
(e)
Recipient selection.
The CDFI Fund will select Recipients based on the criteria described in paragraph (b) of this section and any other criteria set forth in this part.

# Subpart I—Terms and Conditions of a CMF Award
§ 1807.900
Assistance agreement.
(a) Each Applicant that is selected to receive a CMF Award must enter into an Assistance Agreement with the CDFI Fund. The Assistance Agreement will set forth certain required terms and conditions for the CMF Award that may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) The amount of the CMF Award;
(2) The approved Eligible Uses of the CMF Award;
(3) The approved Service Area;
(4) The time period by which the CMF Award proceeds must be Committed for Use;
(5) The required documentation to evidence Project Completion; and
(6) Performance goals that have been established by the CDFI Fund pursuant to this part, the NOFA, and the Recipient's Application.
(b) The Assistance Agreement shall provide that, in the event of fraud, mismanagement, noncompliance with the Act or these regulations, or noncompliance with the terms and conditions of
the Assistance Agreement, on the part of the Recipient, the CDFI Fund, in its discretion, may make a determination to:
(1) Require changes in the performance goals set forth in the Assistance Agreement;
(2) Revoke approval of the Recipient's Application;
(3) Reduce or terminate the CMF Award;
(4) Require repayment of any CMF Award that have been paid to the Recipient;
(5) Bar the Recipient from applying for any assistance from the CDFI Fund; or
(6) Take such other actions as the CDFI Fund deems appropriate or as set forth in the Assistance Agreement.
(c) Prior to making a determination that the Recipient has failed to comply substantially with the Act or these regulations or an Assistance Agreement, the CDFI Fund shall provide the Recipient with reasonable notice and opportunity to cure any instances of noncompliance.
§ 1807.901
Payment of funds.
CMF Awards provided pursuant to this part may be provided in a lump sum payment or in some other manner, as determined appropriate by the CDFI Fund. The CDFI Fund shall not provide any Payment under this part until a Recipient has satisfied all conditions set forth in the applicable NOFA and Assistance Agreement.
§ 1807.902
Data collection and reporting.
(a)
Data; general.
The Recipient must maintain such records as may be prescribed by the CDFI Fund that are necessary to:
(1) Disclose the manner in which the CMF Award is used, including providing documentation to demonstrate Project Completion;
(2) Demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this part and the Assistance Agreement; and
(3) Evaluate the impact of the CMF Award.
(b)
Beneficiary demographics data.
The Recipient may be required to compile such data on the gender, race, ethnicity, national origin, or other information on individuals that are benefiting from the CMF Award, as the CDFI Fund shall prescribe in the Assistance Agreement. Such data will be used to determine whether residents of the Recipient's Service Area are adequately served and to evaluate the impact of the CMF Award.
(c)
Access to records.
The Recipient must submit financial and activity reports, records, statements, and documents at such times, in such forms, and accompanied by such reporting data, as required by the CDFI Fund or the U.S. Department of the Treasury to ensure compliance with the requirements of this part and to evaluate the impact of the CMF Award. The United States Government, including the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Comptroller General, and their duly authorized representatives, shall have full and free access to the Recipient's offices and facilities and all books, documents, records, and financial statements relating to use of Federal funds and may copy such documents as they deem appropriate and audit or provide for an audit at least annually. The CDFI Fund, if it deems appropriate, may prescribe access to record requirements for entities that receive a CMF Award from the Recipient.
(d)
Retention of records.
The Recipient shall comply with all applicable record retention requirements set forth in the Uniform Administrative Requirements (as applicable), the Assistance Agreement and the applicable NOFA.
(e)
Data collection and reporting
—(1)
Financial reporting.
(i) All nonprofit organization Recipients that are required to have their financial statements audited pursuant to the Uniform Administrative Requirements, must submit their single-audits by a time set forth in the applicable NOFA or Assistance Agreement. Nonprofit organization Recipients (excluding Insured CDFIs and State-Insured Credit Unions) that are not required to have financial statements audited pursuant to the Uniform Administrative Requirements, must submit to the CDFI Fund a statement signed by the Recipient's authorized representative or certified public accountant, asserting that the Recipient is not required to have a single-audit
pursuant to the Uniform Administrative Requirements as indicated in the Assistance Agreement. In such instances, the CDFI Fund may require additional audits to be performed and/or submitted to the CDFI Fund as stated in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability and Assistance Agreement.
(ii) For-profit Recipients (excluding Insured CDFIs and State-Insured Credit Unions) must submit to the CDFI Fund financial statements audited in conformity with generally accepted auditing standards as promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants by a time set forth in the applicable NOFA or Assistance Agreement.
(iii) Regulated financial institutions (Insured Depository Institutions, Depository Institution Holding Companies, and Insured Credit Unions), including regulated nonprofit organizations, must submit to the CDFI Fund financial statements audited in conformity with generally accepted auditing standards as promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants by a time set forth in the applicable NOFA or Assistance Agreement.
(2)
Annual report.
(i) The Recipient shall submit a performance and financial report that shall be specified in the Assistance Agreement (annual report). The annual report consists of several components which may include, but are not limited to, a report on performance goals and measures, explanation of any Recipient noncompliance, and such other information as may be required by the CDFI Fund. The annual report components shall be specified and described in the Assistance Agreement.
(ii) The CDFI Fund will use the annual report to collect data to assess the Recipient's compliance with its performance goals and the impact of the CMF and the CDFI industry.
(iii) The Recipient is responsible for the timely and complete submission of the annual report, even if all or a portion of the documents actually are completed by another entity. If such other entities are required to provide information for the annual report, or such other documentation that the CDFI Fund might require, the Recipient is responsible for ensuring that the information is submitted timely and complete. The CDFI Fund reserves the right to contact such other entities and require that additional information and documentation be provided.
(iv) The CDFI Fund's review of the compliance of an Insured CDFI, a Depository Institution Holding Company or a State-Insured Credit Union with the terms and conditions of its Assistance Agreement may also include information from the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency, as the case may be.
§ 1807.903
Compliance with government requirements.
In carrying out its responsibilities pursuant to an Assistance Agreement, the Recipient shall comply with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws, regulations, and ordinances, Uniform Administrative Requirements, and Executive Orders. Furthermore, Recipients must comply with the CDFI Fund's environmental quality regulations (12 CFR part 1815), as well as all other Federal environmental requirements applicable to Federal awards.
§ 1807.904
Lobbying restrictions.
No CMF Award may be expended by a Recipient to pay any person to influence or attempt to influence any agency, elected official, officer or employee of a State or local government in connection with the making, award, extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any State or local government contract, grant, loan or cooperative agreement as such terms are defined in 31 U.S.C. 1352.
§ 1807.905
Criminal provisions.
The criminal provisions of 18 U.S.C. 657 regarding embezzlement or misappropriation of funds are applicable to all Recipients and insiders.
§ 1807.906
CDFI Fund deemed not to control.
The CDFI Fund shall not be deemed to control a Recipient by reason of any CMF Award provided under the Act for the purpose of any applicable law.
§ 1807.907
Limitation on liability.
The liability of the CDFI Fund and the United States Government arising out of any CMF Award shall be limited to the amount of the CMF Award. The CDFI Fund shall be exempt from any assessments and other liabilities that may be imposed on controlling or principal shareholders by any Federal law or the law of any State. Nothing in this section shall affect the application of any Federal tax law.
§ 1807.908
Fraud, waste and abuse.
Any person who becomes aware of the existence or apparent existence of fraud, waste or abuse of a CMF Award should report such incidences to the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
Pt. 1808

# PART 1808—COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS BOND GUARANTEE PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1808.100
Purpose.
1808.101
Summary.
1808.102
Definitions.
1808.103
Participant not instrumentality.
1808.104
Deviations.
1808.105
Relationship to other CDFI Fund programs.
1808.106
OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Eligibility
1808.200
Qualified Issuers.
1808.201
Designated Bonding Authority.
1808.202
Eligible CDFIs.

# Subpart C—Interest Rates; Terms and Conditions of Bonds, Bond Loans, and Secondary Loans
1808.300
Interest rates.
1808.301
Eligible uses of Bond Proceeds.
1808.302
Bond terms and conditions.
1808.303
Risk-Share Pool.
1808.304
Eligible uses of Bond Loan proceeds.
1808.305
Bond Loan terms and conditions.
1808.306
Conditions precedent to Bond and Bond Loan.
1808.307
Secondary Loan Eligible Purposes; Terms and conditions.
1808.308
Relending Fund; Relending Account.
1808.309
Restrictions on uses of Bond Proceeds and Bond Loan proceeds.

# Subpart D—Applications for Guarantee and Qualified Issuer
1808.400
Notice of Guarantee Availability.
1808.401
Application requirements.

# Subpart E—Evaluation and Selection
1808.500
Evaluation of Qualified Issuer Applications.
1808.501
Evaluation of Guarantee Applications.
1808.502
Evaluation of Designated Bonding Authority Applications.
1808.503
Consultation with Appropriate Regulatory Agencies.
1808.504
Selection of Qualified Issuers; Approval for Guarantee.

# Subpart F—Terms and Conditions of Guarantee
1808.600
Full faith and credit and incontestability of Guarantee.
1808.601
Assignment and transfer of Guarantee.
1808.602
Offer of Guarantee.
1808.603
Issuance of Guarantee.
1808.604
Agreement to Guarantee.
1808.605
Agency Administrative Fee.
1808.606
Program Administrator; Servicer; Master Servicer/Trustee.
1808.607
Representations and warranties of Qualified Issuer with respect to Guarantee.
1808.608
Representations and warranties of Eligible CDFI with respect to each Bond Loan.
1808.609
Representations and warranties of Secondary Borrower.
1808.610
Covenants of Qualified Issuer with respect to Guarantee.
1808.611
Covenants of Eligible CDFI with respect to Bond and each Bond Loan.
1808.612
Specific financial covenants of Eligible CDFI.
1808.613
Negative covenants of Eligible CDFI.
1808.614
Covenants of Secondary Borrower with respect to Secondary Loan.
1808.615
Negative covenants of Secondary Borrower.
1808.616
Events of default and remedies with respect to Bonds.
1808.617
Events of default and remedies with respect to Bond Loans.
1808.618
Events of default and remedies with respect to Secondary Loans.
1808.619
Reporting requirements.
1808.620
Investments in Guaranteed Bonds ineligible for Community Reinvestment Act Purposes.
1808.621
Conflict of interest requirements.
1808.622
Compliance with government requirements.
1808.623
Lobbying restrictions.
1808.624
Criminal provisions.
1808.625
CDFI Fund deemed not to control.
1808.626
Limitation on liability.
1808.627
Fraud, waste and abuse.

# Authority:
The Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, Pub. L. 111-240, §§ 1134 and 1703; 12 U.S.C. 4713a.

# Source:
78 FR 8310, Feb. 5, 2013, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1808.100
Purpose.
The purpose of the Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Bond Guarantee Program is to support CDFI lending by providing Guarantees for Bonds issued as part of a Bond Issue for Eligible Community or Economic Development Purposes, as authorized by sections 1134 and 1703 of the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-240; 12 U.S.C. 4713a).
§ 1808.101
Summary.
This section provides a summary overview of certain key provisions of the interim rule, the detailed requirements of which are set forth in subsequent subparts.
(a)
Guarantee.
Through the CDFI Bond Guarantee Program, the Guarantor will provide a Guarantee for Bonds issued by Qualified Issuers as part of a Bond Issue.
(b)
Bonds.
Pursuant to the Act at 12 U.S.C. 4713a(e), a Bond Issue shall comprise Bonds having a minimum aggregate principal amount of $100,000,000 and a maximum aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000. The principal amount of each Bond (or series of Bonds) shall not be less than $10,000,000. A Bond Rate for each advance of funds under a Bond will be established by the Bond Purchaser as of the date of the respective advance, as provided in the Bond.
(c)
Bond Loans to Eligible CDFIs.
The Qualified Issuer will use Bond Proceeds to make Bond Loans to Eligible CDFIs for Eligible Purposes, as those terms are defined in section 1808.102. The CDFI Fund will evaluate each Eligible CDFI using standard Bond Loan Requirements to assess their creditworthiness and capacity to receive a Bond Loan. Each Eligible CDFI may borrow a Bond Loan in an amount that is at least $10,000,000. The Bond Loan Rate shall be the same as the Bond Rate on the particular advance of funds under the Bond that funds the Bond Loan. The aggregate of the principal amounts of the Bond Loans must not exceed the maximum principal amount of the corresponding Bond Issue. The Qualified Issuer must execute Bond Loan documents for 100 percent of the principal amount of each Bond on the Bond Issue Date. Bond Loan proceeds may not be drawn down from the Qualified Issuer until the Eligible CDFI has an immediate use for the Bond Loan proceeds. Five percent, or such other amount that is determined by the CDFI Fund in its sole discretion, of Bond Loan proceeds may be used by an Eligible CDFI to capitalize Loan Loss Reserves.
(d)
Secondary Loans to Secondary Borrowers.
If the Eligible CDFI uses Bond Loan proceeds to make Secondary Loans, the Eligible CDFI must execute Secondary Loan documents (in the form of promissory notes) with Secondary Borrowers as follows:
(1) Not later than 12 months after the Bond Issue Date, Secondary Loan documents representing at least 50 percent of such Eligible CDFI's Bond Loan proceeds allocated for Secondary Loans; and
(2) Not later than 24 months after the Bond Issue Date, Secondary Loan documents representing 100 percent of such Eligible CDFI's Bond Loan proceeds allocated for Secondary Loans (excluding any amounts used for payment of Bond Issuance Fees pursuant to section 1808.304(b)).
(e)
Terms and conditions.
Bonds, Bond Loans and Secondary Loans shall have terms and conditions as set forth in Subpart F of this interim rule including at a minimum, that:
(1) Each Bond shall be a nonrecourse obligation of the Qualified Issuer, payable solely from amounts available pursuant to the Bond Documents. Each promissory note evidencing a Bond Loan shall be a general recourse obligation of the Eligible CDFI and secured by a first lien on collateral. Each Secondary Loan shall be secured by a first lien on collateral and payable solely from amounts available pursuant to the Secondary Loan documents;
(2) The maturity date of a Bond shall not be later than 30 years after the Bond Issue Date. The maturity date of Bond Loans and Secondary Loans may be earlier than, but may not be later than, the maturity date of the corresponding Bond;
(3) The Bonds shall be purchased by the Bond Purchaser on terms and conditions that are satisfactory to the Bond Purchaser, the Guarantor, and the CDFI Fund (under specific requirements set forth in § 1808.302 and the Bond Documents); and
(4) The Guarantor shall guarantee payments on Bonds issued as part of a Bond Issue in such forms and on such terms and conditions and subject to such covenants, representations, warranties and requirements (including requirements for audits) as set forth in this interim rule in Subpart F. These requirements may be expanded upon through the program's Notice of Guarantee Availability, the Bond Documents, and the Bond Loan documents. The Qualified Issuer shall enter into the applicable Bond Documents to evidence its acceptance of the terms and conditions of the Guarantee.
§ 1808.102
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, capitalized terms used herein and not defined elsewhere are defined as follows:
(a)
Act
means the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, Pub. L. 111-240, sections 1134 and 1703, 12 U.S.C. 4713a;
(b)
Affiliate
means any entity that Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common Control with, another entity. Control is defined as:
(1) Ownership, control or power to vote 25 percent or more of the outstanding shares of any class of Voting Securities (as that term is defined in 12 CFR 1805.104(mm)) of any legal entity, directly or indirectly or acting through one or more other persons; or
(2) Control in any manner over the election of a majority of the directors, trustees, or general partners (or individuals exercising similar functions) of any legal entity; or
(3) The power to exercise, directly or indirectly, a controlling influence, as determined by the CDFI Fund, over the management, credit decisions, investment decisions, or policies of any legal entity;
(c)
Agency Administrative Fee
means a fee in an amount equal to 10 basis points (0.1 percent) of the amount of the unpaid principal of the Bond Issue, payable annually to the CDFI Fund by a Qualified Issuer;
(d)
Agreement to Guarantee
means the written agreement between the Guarantor and the Qualified Issuer which sets forth the terms and conditions on which the Guarantor will provide the Guarantee;
(e)
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency
has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(q), and includes, with respect to an Insured Credit Union (as such term is defined in 12 CFR 1805.104(bb)), the National Credit Union Administration;
(f)
Appropriate State Agency
means an agency or instrumentality of a State that regulates and/or insures the member accounts of a State-Insured Credit Union (as such term is defined in 12 CFR 1805.104(e));
(g)
Bond
means a security in the form of a draw-down bond or note issued by the Qualified Issuer, with each advance of funds thereunder bearing interest at an applicable Bond Rate established by the Bond Purchaser in accordance with section 1808.300 of this part, and sold to the Bond Purchaser, the proceeds of which will be used for Eligible Purposes, and which benefit from a Guarantee;
(h)
Bond Documents
mean, for each Bond, the respective Bond, Bond Trust Indenture, Agreement to Guarantee, Bond purchase agreement, and all other instruments and documentation pertaining to the issuance of the Bond;
(i)
Bond Issuance Fees
mean amounts paid by an Eligible CDFI for reasonable and appropriate expenses, administrative costs, and fees for services incurred in connection with the issuance of the Bond (but not including the Agency Administrative Fee) and the making of the Bond Loan;
(j)
Bond Issue
means at least $100,000,000, and no more than $1,000,000,000, in aggregate principal amount of Bonds secured by a single Guarantee; each Bond (or series of Bonds) in the Bond Issue being in the
minimum principal amount of at least $10,000,000;
(k)
Bond Issue Date
means the date on which the Bond is deemed to be issued or originated;
(l)
Bond Loan
means a loan of Bond Proceeds by a Qualified Issuer to an Eligible CDFI. A Bond Loan must be in an initial principal amount that is not less than $10,000,000, and Bond Loan proceeds must be used for Eligible Purposes;
(m)
Bond Loan Payment Default Rate
means, in the event of a Bond Loan payment default, the applicable interest rate on any overdue amount from its due date to the date of actual payment and shall be calculated in the same manner as a late charge rate is calculated in the underlying Bond;
(n)
Bond Loan Rate
means the rate of interest for each advance of funds under a Bond Loan, which shall be the same as the Bond Rate;
(o)
Bond Loan Requirements
means the credit criteria, established by the CDFI Fund, for assessing the creditworthiness and capacity of each Eligible CDFI applicant to receive a Bond Loan;
(p)
Bond Proceeds
means the funds that are advanced by the Bond Purchaser to the Qualified Issuer under a Bond;
(q)
Bond Purchaser (or Bondholder)
means the Federal Financing Bank, the body corporate and instrumentality of the Federal Government created by the Federal Financing Bank Act of 1973 (12 U.S.C. 2281
et seq.
);
(r)
Bond Rate
means the rate of interest for each advance of funds under a Bond;
(s)
Bond Trust Indenture
means the agreement between the Qualified Issuer and the Master Servicer/Trustee that sets forth the rights, duties, responsibilities and remedies of the Qualified Issuer and Master Servicer/Trustee with respect to the Bonds, to include responsibilities regarding the management of the collateral, the management of the funds and accounts, the repayment and redemption of the Bonds, and the circumstances and processes surrounding any default;
(t)
Capital Distribution Plan
means the component of the Guarantee Application that demonstrates the Qualified Issuer's comprehensive plan for lending, disbursing, servicing, and monitoring each Bond Loan and that meets the requirements of § 1808.401 of this interim rule and such other requirements as may be designated in the applicable Notice of Guarantee Availability. The Capital Distribution Plan includes, among other components (specified in § 1808.401 of this interim rule), a Statement of Proposed Sources and Uses of Funds, and shall include one or more Secondary Capital Distribution Plans;
(u)
CDFI Bond Guarantee Program (or Program)
means the program of providing Guarantees for Bonds issued as part of a Bond Issue by Qualified Issuers to make Bond Loans to Eligible CDFIs for Eligible Purposes, as authorized by subsections 1134 and 1703 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 4713a), and implemented under this part;
(v)
Certified Community Development Financial Institution (or Certified CDFI
) means a financing entity that has a primary mission of promoting community development and that has been certified by the CDFI Fund as meeting the eligibility requirements set forth in 12 CFR 1805.201;
(w)
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (or CDFI Fund
) means the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, a wholly owned government corporation within the U.S. Department of the Treasury, established under the Riegle Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
), as amended;
(x)
Credit Enhancement
means such instrument or document proffered by an Eligible CDFI to enhance the credit quality of a Bond and/or Bond Loan. Credit Enhancements may include, but are not limited to, pledges of financial resources and lines and letters of credit issued by: an Eligible CDFI; an Affiliate; a regulated financial institution; a foundation; or another entity. The Risk-Share Pool is not a form of Credit Enhancement;
(y)
Department Opinion
means an internal opinion by the CDFI Fund regarding compliance by the Qualified Issuer with the requirements for approval of a Guarantee;
(z)
Designated Bonding Authority (or DBA)
means a Qualified Issuer selected
by the CDFI Fund to issue Bonds on behalf of certain Eligible CDFIs and make Bond Loans to such Eligible CDFIs, pursuant to this interim rule;
(aa)
Eligible Community Development Financial Institution (or Eligible CDFI)
means a Certified CDFI that has submitted an application to a Qualified Issuer for a Bond Loan, has been deemed creditworthy based on the Bond Loan Requirements, and has received a Bond Loan;
(bb)
Eligible Community or Economic Development Purpose (or Eligible Purpose)
means the allowable uses of Bond Proceeds and Bond Loan proceeds, which includes financing or Refinancing for community or economic development purposes described in 12 U.S.C. 4707(b), including but not limited to community or economic development purposes in Low-Income Areas or Underserved Rural Areas, as deemed eligible by the CDFI Fund in its sole discretion; Bond Issuance Fees in an amount not to exceed one percent of Bond Loan proceeds; and capitalization of Loan Loss Reserves in an amount that is up to five percent of the par amount of the Bond Loan, or such other amount that is determined by the CDFI Fund in its sole discretion;
(cc)
Guarantee
means the guarantee by the Guarantor, pursuant to an Agreement to Guarantee, of the repayment of 100 percent of the Verifiable Losses of Principal, Interest, and Call Premium, if any, on the corresponding Bonds issued as part of a Bond Issue; each Guarantee shall be for a Bond Issue of at least $100,000,000, plus the related interest and call premiums;
(dd)
Guarantee Application
means the application document that a Qualified Issuer submits in order to apply for a Guarantee;
(ee)
Guarantor
means the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's designee;
(ff)
Investment Area
means a geographic area meeting the requirements of 12 CFR 1805.201(b)(3)(ii);
(gg)
Loan Loss Reserves
means the use of Bond Loan proceeds (secured by a Principal Loss Collateral Provision) for a set aside in the form of cash reserves that serve as a safeguard to protect the Eligible CDFI against future losses for any loans for community or economic development purposes described in 12 U.S.C. 4707 (b), including community or economic development purposes in Low-Income Areas or Underserved Rural Areas, within the Eligible CDFI's portfolio;
(hh)
Low-Income
means an income, adjusted for family size, of not more than: (1) for Metropolitan Areas, 80 percent of the area median family income; and (2) for non-Metropolitan Areas, the greater of: (1) 80 percent of the area median family income; or (2) 80 percent of the Statewide non-Metropolitan Area median family income;
(ii)
Low-Income Area
means a census tract or block numbering area in which the median income does not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area in which such census tract or block numbering area is located. With respect to a census tract or block numbering area located within a Metropolitan Area, the median family income shall be at or below 80 percent of the Metropolitan Area median family income or the national Metropolitan Area median family income, whichever is greater. In the case of a census tract or block numbering area located outside of a Metropolitan Area, the median family income shall be at or below 80 percent of the statewide non-Metropolitan Area median family income or the national non-Metropolitan Area median family income, whichever is greater;
(jj)
Master Servicer/Trustee
means a third party trust company or financial institution that is in the business of administering facilities similar to the Bonds and Bond Loans, has been deemed acceptable by the CDFI Fund, and whose duties include, among others, exercising fiduciary powers to enforce the terms of Bonds and Bond Loans pursuant to the Bond Trust Indenture entered into by and between the Master Servicer/Trustee and the Qualified Issuer, overseeing the activities of Servicers, and facilitating Bond principal and interest payments to the Bond Purchaser;
(kk)
Metropolitan Area
means an area that contains an urban core based statistical area of 50,000 or more population and is designated as such by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3504(e), 31 U.S.C.
1104(d) and Executive Order 10253 (3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp., p. 758), as amended;
(ll)
Notice of Guarantee Availability (or NOGA)
means the notice, published by the CDFI Fund, that announces to all interested parties the opportunity to submit Qualified Issuer Applications and Guarantee Applications pursuant sections 1808.400 and 1808.401 of this interim rule;
(mm)
Principal Loss Collateral Provision
means a cash or cash equivalent guarantee or facility provided in lieu of pledged collateral set forth in the Bond Documents and Bond Loan documents;
(nn)
Program Administrator
means the Qualified Issuer, or an entity designated by the Qualified Issuer and approved by the CDFI Fund, that performs certain administrative duties related to application preparation, compliance monitoring, and reporting, as well as other duties set forth under section 1808.606 of this interim rule;
(oo)
Qualified Issuer
means a Certified CDFI, or any entity designated by a Certified CDFI to issue Bonds on its behalf, that meets the qualification requirements set forth in section 1808.200 of this interim rule, and that has been approved as such by the CDFI Fund pursuant to review and evaluation of the Qualified Issuer Application;
(pp)
Qualified Issuer Application
means the application document that a Certified CDFI (or any entity designated by a Certified CDFI to issue Bonds on its behalf) submits to the CDFI Fund in order to be approved as a Qualified Issuer prior to, or simultaneously with, a Guarantee Application;
(qq)
Qualified Secondary Loan Receivable
means payment receivables from the Secondary Loan(s) relating to the corresponding Bond Loan;
(rr)
Refinance (or Refinancing)
means the use of Bond Proceeds to refinance an Eligible CDFI's or Secondary Borrower's existing loan, which must have been used for an Eligible Purpose;
(ss)
Relending Fund
means the fund maintained by the Master Servicer/Trustee to allow an Eligible CDFI to relend Secondary Loan repayments for Eligible Purposes, not to exceed 10 percent of the principal amount outstanding of the Bonds, minus the Risk Share Pool; the Relending Fund will include a Relending Account for each Bond Issue; and each Relending Account will include a Relending Subaccount for each Bond Loan;
(tt)
Risk-Share Pool
means an account maintained by the Master Servicer/Trustee throughout the term of a Guarantee to cover losses before the Guarantee is exercised; the Risk-Share Pool is capitalized by pro rata payments equal to three percent of the amount disbursed on the Bonds from all Eligible CDFIs within a Bond Issue; payments must be funded at each disbursement under the Bond and associated Bond Loan; amounts in the Risk-Share Pool will not be returned to the Eligible CDFIs until maturity of all of the Bonds, and termination of all Bond Loans, within a Bond Issue;
(uu)
Secondary Borrower
means an entity that has made application to the Eligible CDFI for a Secondary Loan, been deemed creditworthy by the Eligible CDFI, meets the criteria set forth in the applicable Secondary Loan Requirements to receive a Secondary Loan, and has received a Secondary Loan;
(vv)
Secondary Capital Distribution Plan
means the component of the Capital Distribution Plan that pertains to the making of Secondary Loans, demonstrates the Eligible CDFI's comprehensive plan for lending, disbursing, servicing and monitoring Secondary Loans, includes a description of how the proposed Secondary Loan will meet Eligible Purposes and meets such other the requirements as may be designated in the applicable Notice of Guarantee Availability;
(ww)
Secondary Loan
means the use of Bond Loan proceeds by an Eligible CDFI to finance or Refinance a loan to a Secondary Borrower for Eligible Purposes, which meets the applicable Secondary Loan Requirements;
(xx)
Secondary Loan Requirements
mean the minimum required criteria used by each Eligible CDFI (in addition to the Eligible CDFI's underwriting criteria) to evaluate a request by a Secondary Borrower applicant for a Secondary Loan. The Secondary Loan Requirements will be established by the CDFI Fund and incorporated into the Bond Loan documents;
(yy)
Servicer
means the Qualified Issuer, or an entity designated by the Qualified Issuer and approved by the CDFI Fund, to perform various Bond Loan servicing duties, as set forth in this part;
(zz)
Special Servicer
means the Master Servicer/Trustee, or an entity designated by the Master Servicer/Trustee and approved by the CDFI Fund, that performs certain administrative duties related to the restructuring of Bond Loans that are in or about to enter into an event of default as well as other duties set forth under section 1808.606(d) of this interim rule;
(aaa)
State
means any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Island, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and any other territory of the United States;
(bbb)
Statement of Proposed Sources and Uses of Funds
means the component of the Guarantee Application that describes the proposed uses of Bond Proceeds and the proposed sources of funds to repay principal and interest on the Bonds and the Bond Loans;
(ccc)
Targeted Population
means individuals or an identifiable group of individuals who are Low-Income persons or lack adequate access to Financial Products or Financial Services and meet the requirements of 12 CFR 1805.201(b)(3)(iii);
(ddd)
Trust Estate
means the Bond Loan agreement and promissory notes evidencing the Bond Loan, all funds and accounts related to the Bonds and held by the Master Servicer/Trustee pursuant to the Bond Trust Indenture including, but not limited to, the Revenue Accounts and the Relending Accounts (as such terms are defined in subsection 1808.606(f)), and any additional collateral pledged directly by the Eligible CDFI;
(eee)
Underserved Rural Area
means an area that has significant unmet needs for loans, Equity Investments, or Financial Services (as those terms are defined in 12 CFR 1805.104) and is not contained within either a Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Areas (CMSA) or Primary Metropolitan Statistical Areas (PMSA), as such areas are defined in OMB Bulletin No. 99-04 (Revised Statistical Definitions of Metropolitan Areas (MAs) and Guidance on Uses of MA Definitions); and
(fff)
Verifiable Losses of Principal, Interest, and Call Premium
means any portion of required debt payments related to or arising out of a Bond and Bond Loan, or the enforcement of either of them, that the Qualified Issuer is unable satisfy.
§ 1808.103
Participant not instrumentality.
No participant in the CDFI Bond Guarantee Program shall be deemed to be an agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States.
§ 1808.104
Deviations.
To the extent that such requirements are not specified by statute, the Secretary of the Treasury in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, may authorize deviations on an individual or general basis from the requirements of this interim rule upon a finding that such deviation is essential to program objectives, and the special circumstances stated in the proposal make such deviation clearly in the best interest of the Federal Government. All proposals must be in writing and supported by a statement of the facts and the grounds forming the basis of the deviation. For deviations of general applicability, after a determination is made by the Secretary of the Treasury based on the deviation proposal, the CDFI Fund must publish notification of granted deviations in the
Federal Register.
Any deviation that was not captured in the original credit subsidy cost estimate will require either additional fees, or discretionary appropriations to cover the cost.
§ 1808.105
Relationship to other CDFI Fund programs.
Award funds received under any other CDFI Fund program cannot be used by any participant, including Qualified Issuers, Eligible CDFIs and Secondary Borrowers, to pay principal, interest, fees, administrative costs, or issuance costs (including Bond Issuance Fees) related to the CDFI
Bond Guarantee Program, or to fund the Risk-Share Pool.
§ 1808.106
OMB control number.
The collection of information requirements in this part are subject to the review of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB).

# Subpart B—Eligibility
§ 1808.200
Qualified Issuers.
(a)
Requirements and qualifications.
An applicant shall be deemed a Qualified Issuer if it is determined, in writing by the CDFI Fund, to meet the following criteria:
(1) The applicant must be a Certified CDFI, or an entity designated by a Certified CDFI to issue Bonds on its behalf;
(2) The applicant must have appropriate expertise, capacity, and experience, or otherwise be qualified to issue Bonds for Eligible Purposes;
(3) The applicant must have appropriate expertise, capacity, and experience, or otherwise be qualified to make Bond Loans for Eligible Purposes;
(4) The applicant must have appropriate expertise, capacity, and experience to serve or have identified qualified entities that will serve as its Program Administrator and Servicer; and
(5) The applicant must meet such other criteria as may be required by the CDFI Fund pursuant to this interim rule and the applicable Notice of Guarantee Availability.
(b)
Approval.
The designation of an applicant as a Qualified Issuer does not ensure that the Guarantor will approve a Guarantee Application or issue a Guarantee. In order for the Guarantor to approve a Qualified Issuer's Guarantee Application, the Qualified Issuer must meet all applicable Guarantee Application requirements including, but not limited to, creditworthiness and other requirements.
(c)
Qualified Issuer responsibilities.
The responsibilities of a Qualified Issuer shall include, but are not limited to:
(1) Preparing and submitting the Guarantee Application on behalf of Eligible CDFI applicants that designated it to serve as Qualified Issuer, including providing any additional information needed for review by the CDFI Fund;
(2) During the CDFI Fund's review and evaluation of the Guarantee Application, serving as primary point of contact between the CDFI Fund and the Eligible CDFI applicants that designated the Qualified Issuer to serve on their behalf;
(3) Issuing the Bond for purchase by the Bond Purchaser;
(4) Making Bond Loans to Eligible CDFIs, ensuring that 100 percent of Bond Proceeds are used to make Bond Loans;
(5) Charging interest on the Bond Loans as set forth in this interim rule and Bond Loan documents, and providing for such a schedule of repayment of Bond Loans as will, upon the timely repayment of the Bond Loans, provide adequate and timely funds for the payment of principal and interest on the Bonds;
(6) During the duration of the Bonds and the Bond Loans, serving as primary point of contact between the CDFI Fund and Eligible CDFIs;
(7) Overseeing the work of, or serving in the capacity of, the Program Administrator and Servicer;
(8) Enforcing the terms and requirements of the Bond Trust Indenture including, but not limited to: ensuring the repayment of Bond Loans in a timely manner pursuant to the terms of Bond Loan documents; assigning delinquent Bond Loans to the Guarantor upon demand by the CDFI Fund or the Guarantor; and ensuring that the Master Servicer/Trustee establishes and maintains the Risk-Share Pool throughout the term of the Guarantee;
(9) Reviewing collateral and Credit Enhancement requirements for each Bond Loan and providing information on such collateral and Credit Enhancement, as requested, to the CDFI Fund;
(10) Making payment of the Agency Administrative Fee to the CDFI Fund;
(11) Submitting all required reports and additional documentation (including reconciling financial data and Capital Distribution Plan updates, as necessary); and
(12) Such other duties and responsibilities as the CDFI Fund, the Guarantor, or the Bondholder may require.
(d)
Bond Issuance Fees.
The Qualified Issuer may charge Bond Issuance Fees and all fees reasonable and necessary for administering and servicing the Bonds or the Bond Loans, post issuance, to Eligible CDFIs.
(e)
Restriction.
A Qualified Issuer may not receive a Bond Loan under any Bond Issuance for which it serves as a Qualified Issuer.
§ 1808.201
Designated Bonding Authority.
(a)
General.
In its sole discretion, the CDFI Fund may solicit Qualified Issuer Applications from entities proposing to serve as the Designated Bonding Authority (DBA). The CDFI Bond Guarantee Program shall only have one DBA at any given time. In order to be selected to serve as the DBA, the entity must meet all qualifications of a Qualified Issuer set forth in section 1808.200 of this interim rule; additional qualifications may be set forth in the applicable NOGA as determined by the CDFI Fund.
(b)
Selection.
The DBA will serve as a CDFI Fund-selected Qualified Issuer and designated Qualified Issuer for Eligible CDFIs that do not elect to designate another Qualified Issuer. The DBA will prepare and submit a Guarantee Application on behalf of such Eligible CDFI applicants, in accordance with such criteria set forth in this interim rule, the applicable Notice of Guarantee Availability and the Qualified Issuer Application.
§ 1808.202
Eligible CDFIs.
Each Eligible CDFI applicant seeking a Bond Loan must meet the following criteria:
(a) Be certified by the CDFI Fund as meeting the eligibility requirements set forth in 12 CFR 1805.201;
(b) Have the appropriate expertise, capacity, and experience, or otherwise be qualified to use the proceeds of Bond Loans for Eligible Purposes; and
(c) Meet such other criteria and requirements set forth in the applicable Notice of Guarantee Availability, the Guarantee Application, the Bond Loan Requirements, related Bond and Bond Loan documents, and such other requirements of the CDFI Fund.

# Subpart C—Interest Rates; Terms and Conditions of Bonds, Bond Loans, and Secondary Loans
§ 1808.300
Interest rates.
(a)
Interest rates.
(1) A Bond Rate will be established by the Bond Purchaser as of the date of the respective advance of funds, as provided in the Bond. The Bond Rate for each advance of funds must be fixed and consistent with Federal credit policies outlined in OMB Circular A-129. The FFB, as Bond Purchaser, will set rates to the borrower pursuant to section 6(b) of the Federal Financing Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 2285(b)) and the FFB Lending Policy. This rate will be indexed to the appropriate Treasury rate based on the Treasury yield curve and include a spread to be determined by the Bond Purchaser; variable Bond Rates are not permitted.
(2) Interest on each advance of funds under a Bond shall be computed as provided in the Bond.
(3) A principal and interest payment schedule will be determined and provided to the Qualified Issuer for each advance of funds under a Bond, based on the Bond Rate established for the respective advance. The final principal and interest payment schedule for amounts due under a Bond will be the aggregation of the individual principal and interest payment schedules for all advances of funds under the Bond.
(4) The Bond Loan Rate shall be the same as the Bond Rate on the particular advance of funds under the Bond that funds the Bond Loan.
(5) The rate of interest for each Secondary Loan shall be established by the Eligible CDFI in accordance with subsection 1808.307(c), and may be subject to limitations specified in the applicable NOGA.
(b)
Bond Loan payment default interest rate.
In the event of a payment default on a Bond Loan, the Eligible CDFI shall pay interest on any overdue amount from its due date to the date of actual payment at the Bond Loan Payment Default Rate. The Bond Loan Payment Default Rate shall be calculated in the same manner as a late charge is calculated under the underlying Bond.
§ 1808.301
Eligible uses of Bond Proceeds.
Bond Proceeds must be used by a Qualified Issuer to finance Bond Loans or Refinance loans to Eligible CDFIs for Eligible Purposes as defined in section 1808.102 of this interim rule. A Qualified Issuer that is also a Certified CDFI may not finance a Bond Loan to itself or refinance its own loan. One hundred percent of the principal amount of each Bond must be used to make Bond Loans. As a Bond Loan is repaid, such repaid Bond Loan proceeds in excess of those required for debt service payments on the Bond must be used to repay the Bond or held in the Relending Account and used for additional Secondary Loans, to the extent authorized under § 1808.308.
§ 1808.302
Bond terms and conditions.
(a)
Maturity date.
As required by 12 U.S.C. 4713a(e)(1)(D), the maturity date of a Bond shall not be later than 30 years after the Bond Issue Date. The maturity date for any advance of funds under a Bond shall not be later than the maturity date of the Bond.
(b)
Nonrecourse obligation.
Each Bond shall be a nonrecourse obligation of the Qualified Issuer, payable solely from amounts available pursuant to the Bond Documents.
(c)
Terms.
The Bonds may contain only terms that are consistent with the lending policies and terms of the Bond Purchaser.
(d)
No subordination.
The Bonds or Bond Loans may not be subordinated to any new or existing liability and effective subordination of the Bonds or Bond Loans to tax-exempt obligations will render the Guarantee void, in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-129 (Policies for Federal Credit Programs and Non-Tax Receivables) and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
(e)
Other limitations.
The CDFI Fund may impose other limitations as appropriate to administer the CDFI Bond Guarantee Program including, but not limited to, requiring Qualified Issuers to obtain Credit Enhancement to safeguard against the risk of default.
(f)
Terms for Bond issuance and disbursement of Bond Proceeds.
(1) The Qualified Issuer must execute Bond Loan documents for 100 percent of the principal amount of each Bond on the Bond Issue Date. There will be an annual assessment to determine whether the Qualified Issuer is subject to the repayment provision established in 12 U.S.C. 4713a(c)(4). Terms and conditions for the annual assessment will be set forth in the applicable Notice of Guarantee Availability.
(2) Disbursements of Bond Proceeds to the Qualified Issuer shall be made pursuant to an advance request process established by the Bond Purchaser and the CDFI Fund under which the Qualified Issuer shall request an advance of funds under a Bond.
(g)
Amortization of Bond.
The principal amount of each advance of funds under a Bond shall amortize in level debt service payments of principal and interest, which payments shall be due either quarterly or semi-annually, as determined by the Qualified Issuer and the Bond Purchaser, and which shall begin on the first principal payment date specified in the Bond, as determined by the Qualified Issuer and the Bond Purchaser. Prior to the first principal payment date, interest accrued shall be due on the payment dates specified in the Bond, as determined by the Qualified Issuer and the Bond Purchaser.
(h)
Optional prepayment of Bonds.
All or a portion of any advance of funds under a Bond, or the Bond in its entirety, may be prepaid by the Qualified Issuer at any time. Any partial prepayment of an advance shall be in an amount equal to at least $100,000 of principal. Each partial prepayment of an advance of funds under a Bond shall be applied in the manner set forth in the Bond. Any partial or full prepayment of an advance of funds under a Bond shall be subject to the payment of a prepayment price, as provided in the Bond Documents.
(i)
Mandatory prepayment of Bonds.
(1) Any Bond shall be subject to mandatory prepayment if Bond Loans or Secondary Loans are not made in a timely manner, as follows:
(i) On the Calculation Date (as defined in subsection 1808.308(e)) of each year, any amount retained in the Relending Subaccount that exceeds the Relending Subaccount Maximum (as
defined in subsection 1808.308(d)) by $100,000 or more shall be applied to prepay Bonds on the next succeeding payment date.
(ii) Any amounts derived from the liquidation of collateral from the Bond Loan and/or Secondary Loan in connection with the exercise by the Guarantor, the Qualified Issuer or the Bondholder of remedies upon default of the Bond Loan shall be applied, immediately upon liquidation, in the following order (inclusive of reasonable fees and expenses associated therewith):
(A) To the repayment of any amounts drawn under the Guarantee;
(B) To the prepayment of Bonds, in a like amount;
(C) To the replenishment of any funds drawn from the Risk-Share Pool Fund; and
(D) To the Eligible CDFI for application in accordance with the Secondary Loan documents.
(2) When an amount is required to be applied as a mandatory prepayment of Bonds, the Qualified Issuer may select which advances of funds under a Bond are to be prepaid. Any amount applied as a partial prepayment of an advance under a Bond shall be applied as provided in the Bond. Any partial or full prepayment of an advance of funds under a Bond shall be subject to the payment of a prepayment price, as provided in the Bond Documents.
§ 1808.303
Risk-Share Pool.
The Master Servicer/Trustee, on behalf of the Qualified Issuer and for the benefit of the Bondholder, shall establish a Risk-Share Pool that is funded at each disbursement of the Bond Loan proceeds by payment from each Eligible CDFI in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4713a(d). The Risk-Share Pool must remain in place throughout the term of the Guarantee. Amounts in the Risk Share Pool Fund will not be returned to Eligible CDFIs until maturity of all of the Bonds, and termination of all of the Bond Loans, within a Bond Issue.
(a) At each disbursement of the Bond Loan proceeds, each Eligible CDFI shall deposit an amount that is equal to three percent of the disbursement, for a total of three percent of the guaranteed amount outstanding of the Bond, from monies other than Bond Loan proceeds, into the applicable subaccount of the Risk-Share Pool Fund. Such monies shall remain in said account throughout the term of the Bond.
(b) Any interest on a Bond Loan in excess of the Bond Loan Rate derived by the Qualified Issuer during any period during which the Bond Loan Payment Default Rate applies shall also be deposited in the Risk-Share Pool Fund.
(c) The Risk-Share Pool Fund shall be applied by the Master Servicer/Trustee to payments of debt service on the Bond Issue in the event that the Eligible CDFI defaults in the corresponding payment of debt service on the Bond Loan. The defaulted Eligible CDFI's deposit shall be applied first to any such payment of debt service. After depletion of the defaulted Eligible CDFI's deposit, each remaining Eligible CDFI's deposit shall be applied prorata to any such payment of debt service. Monies on deposit in the Risk-Share Pool Fund shall be applied to such payments and shall be depleted in full prior to any draw on the Guarantee.
(d) Eligible CDFIs (excluding the Eligible CDFI in default and responsible for a draw) shall not be required to replenish the Risk-Share Pool Fund in the event of a draw.
(e) The Risk Share Pool deposit shall be sufficient collateral to secure any draw on Bond Loan proceeds related to the costs of issuance pursuant to 1808.304(b).
(f) In the event of a payment default on the Bond Loan by an Eligible CDFI, the Qualified Issuer shall notify the CDFI Fund and request permission to draw from the Risk-Share Pool to cover any default of principal and interest payments due to the Bond Purchaser.
(g) Amounts in the Risk Share Pool Fund will not be returned to Eligible CDFIs until maturity of all of the Bonds, and termination of all of the Bond Loans, within a Bond Issue. Upon maturity of all of the Bonds, and termination of the Bond Loans, within a Bond Issue, the pro rata amount of each Eligible CDFI's payments in the Risk-Share Pool shall be returned to each Eligible CDFI; provided however,
that such Eligible CDFI has properly replenished any draws on the Risk-Share Pool attributed to nonpayment of its Bond Loan and the corresponding Bond.
§ 1808.304
Eligible uses of Bond Loan proceeds.
(a)
Eligible uses.
Bond Loan proceeds shall be only used for Eligible Purposes, to prefund one monthly installment of Bond Loan payments, and to pay Bond Issuance Fees. As a Bond Loan is repaid, such repaid Bond Loan proceeds must be held in the Relending Account and used for additional Secondary Loans, to the extent authorized under § 1808.308.
(b)
Bond Issuance Fees.
(1) Amounts not to exceed one percent of Bond Loan proceeds may be applied to pay Bond Issuance Fees. Bond Loan proceeds that are used to pay Bond Issuance Fees shall be applied in the following order of priority:
(i) To pay reasonable transaction fees and expenses of the Qualified Issuer, its advisors and consultants, related to the Bond issuance (but not including any salaries or administrative costs of the Qualified Issuer unrelated to the Bond issuance);
(ii) To pay reasonable transaction fees and expenses of the Master Servicer/Trustee, its advisors and consultants, related to the Bond issuance; and
(iii) To pay reasonable transaction fees and expenses of the Eligible CDFI, its advisors and consultants, related to the making of the Bond Loan.
(2) Any fees and expenses arising out of each transaction which, in the aggregate, exceed the one percent limit on Bond Issuance Fees payable from Bond Loan proceeds must be paid by the Eligible CDFI from monies other than Bond Loan proceeds.
(c)
Prefunding of Bond Loan payments.
Bond Loan proceeds may be used to prefund one monthly installment of Bond Loan payments.
§ 1808.305
Bond Loan terms and conditions.
(a)
Maturity date.
The maturity date of a Bond Loan shall not be later than 30 years after the Bond Issue Date. The maturity date of Bond Loans may be earlier than, but may not be later than, the maturity date of the corresponding Bond.
(b)
Bond Loan general recourse obligation; Collateral.
(1) The Bond Loan shall be a general recourse obligation of the Eligible CDFI.
(2) The Bond Loan shall be further secured by a first lien of the Master Servicer/Trustee, on behalf of the Bondholder, on:
(i) The Trust Estate;
(ii) Qualified Secondary Loan Receivables; and
(iii) Either:
(A) An assignment of the Secondary Loan collateral (other than a Principal Loss Collateral Provision) from the Eligible CDFI to the Master Servicer/Trustee; or
(B) Provision of a Principal Loss Collateral Provision for the benefit of the Master Servicer/Trustee, in accordance with the Bond Loan Requirements and the Secondary Loan Requirements, as applicable.
(3) The CDFI Fund may, in its sole discretion, approve alternative forms of Bond Loan collateral.
(4) A parity first lien on pledged collateral may be accepted, in the sole discretion of the CDFI Fund.
(5) If any collateral becomes non-performing during the term of the Bond Loan, the Guarantor may require the applicable Eligible CDFI to substitute other collateral that is of equal quality to the initial collateral, when performing, acceptable to the Guarantor in its sole discretion.
(6) An Eligible CDFI's parent organization, Affiliate, or an entity that is related to the Eligible CDFI through its management structure, may assume limited recourse obligation for the Bond Loan if it provides Credit Enhancement and/or pledges financial resources or such other financial support or risk mitigation that would enhance the Eligible CDFI's creditworthiness and its ability to repay the Bond Loan, thereby decreasing the risk underlying the Guarantee.
(c)
Disbursement of Bond Loan proceeds.
(1) Bond Loans shall be draw-down loans. Disbursements of Bond Loan proceeds to the Eligible CDFI shall be made pursuant to a requisition
process established by the Bond Purchaser and the CDFI Fund, which shall include a process by which the Qualified Issuer shall request an advance from the Bondholder under the Bond and a process by which the Eligible CDFI shall request disbursement from the Qualified Issuer.
(2) Each requisition shall be accompanied by invoices and certifications by the Eligible CDFI (and the Secondary Borrower, if applicable) as to expenditure of proceeds for Eligible Purposes.
(3) No Bond Loan proceeds may be disbursed later than 60 months after the Bond Issue Date. Any Bond Loan proceeds not disbursed will have been forfeited by the Eligible CDFI.
(4) Disbursements to capitalize the Eligible CDFI's Loan Loss Reserves shall be made pursuant to a requisition process established by the Qualified Issuer and the CDFI Fund.
(d)
Amortization of Bond Loan.
Each Bond Loan shall amortize in the same manner as the corresponding Bond; provided that principal and/or interest on each Bond Loan shall be payable to the Qualified Issuer in monthly installments based on the required quarterly or semi-annual installments, as applicable, due on the corresponding Bond; provided further, that each Eligible CDFI shall prefund one monthly payment installment not later than the thirtieth day prior to the first payment date of the corresponding Bond so that on the thirtieth day prior to such Bond payment date, the Eligible CDFI shall have paid in full all amounts due on the Bond payment date.
(e)
Optional prepayment of Bond Loan.
The Bond Loan shall be subject to prepayment, in whole or in part, at the option of the Eligible CDFI in accordance with the optional prepayment provisions of the corresponding Bond (including the required prepayment minimums of $100,000) and shall be subject to the payment of a prepayment price, as determined by the Bondholder in accordance with the corresponding Bond.
(f)
Mandatory prepayment of Bond Loan.
The Bond Loan shall be subject to mandatory prepayment by the Eligible CDFI in accordance with the mandatory prepayment provisions of the corresponding Bond.
§ 1808.306
Conditions precedent to Bond and Bond Loan.
The ability of the Qualified Issuer to issue a Bond and make a Bond Loan shall be subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
(a) Evidence satisfactory to the Qualified Issuer that the Eligible CDFI will comply with the terms and conditions of the Bond Loan documents, including repayment of the Bond Loan;
(b) Evidence satisfactory to the Qualified Issuer, the Guarantor, and the CDFI Fund that the Eligible CDFI has the authority to enter into the Bond Loan, has secured the Credit Enhancement, if any, demonstrated a reasonable prospect of repayment of the Bond Loan, and pledged the collateral (including executed security documents, UCC-1 financing statements or mortgages, as applicable);
(c) A Guarantee Application that has been approved by the Guarantor;
(d) A satisfactory credit review by the CDFI Fund and in compliance with the Bond Loan Requirements, including submission of complete and accurate Guarantee Application materials, submitted in a timely manner, demonstrating the Eligible CDFI's ability to repay the Bond Loan;
(e) Opinions of legal counsel to the Qualified Issuer and the Eligible CDFI;
(f) Executed Bond Loan documents;
(g) Organizational documents of the Eligible CDFI;
(h) Certifications by the Qualified Issuer and Eligible CDFIs that Bond Proceeds and Bond Loan proceeds will not be used for lobbying by recipients of Federal loans or guarantees;
(i) A statement that no default, event of default, or due and unsatisfied liability has occurred and is continuing with respect to any obligations of the Qualified Issuer and each Eligible CDFI to the CDFI Fund, the Guarantor, the Bond Purchaser, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or any other agency, authority or instrumentality of the Federal Government; and
(j) Any other conditions precedent set forth in the Bond Loan documents, including documentation that any credit enhancements have been secured by the Eligible CDFI.
§ 1808.307
Secondary Loan Eligible Purposes; Terms and conditions.
(a)
Eligible Purposes.
Eligible CDFIs must make Secondary Loans for Eligible Purposes. Secondary Loan proceeds may not be used to capitalize loan loss reserves.
(b)
Making Secondary Loans.
(1) If the Eligible CDFI uses Bond Loan proceeds to make Secondary Loans, the Eligible CDFI must execute Secondary Loan documents (in the form of promissory notes) with Secondary Borrowers as follows:
(i) Not later than 12 months after the Bond Issue Date, Secondary Loan documents representing at least 50 percent of the Eligible CDFIs' Bond Loan proceeds allocated for Secondary Loans; and
(ii) Not later than 24 months after the Bond Issue Date, Secondary Loan documents representing 100 percent of the Eligible CDFIs' Bond Loan proceeds allocated for Secondary Loans (excluding any amounts used for payment of Bond Issuance Fees pursuant to section 1808.304(b)).
(2) In the event that the Eligible CDFI does not comply with the foregoing requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, the available Bond Loan proceeds at the end of the applicable period shall be reduced by an amount equal to the difference between the amount required by paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) minus the amount previously committed to the Secondary Loans in the applicable period. Consistent with the corresponding Bond Loan, the Secondary Loans shall be drawn down by the Secondary Borrowers upon demonstration of an Eligible Purpose.
(c)
Secondary Loan interest rate.
The rate of interest with respect to each Secondary Loan shall be determined by each Eligible CDFI in accordance with the following limitations:
(1) With respect to each Secondary Loan, the Eligible CDFI will be required to propose to the CDFI Fund:
(i) A minimum and maximum spread over the corresponding Bond Loan Rate which will represent the standard minimum and maximum interest rate (Minimum Secondary Loan Rate and Maximum Secondary Loan Rate, respectively); and
(ii) A maximum spread over the Maximum Secondary Loan Rate in event of a Secondary Loan default (Maximum Secondary Loan Default Spread).
(2) The CDFI Fund reserves the right to evaluate, approve, modify, or disapprove the proposed Minimum Secondary Loan Rate, Maximum Secondary Loan Rate, and Maximum Secondary Loan Default Spread before approving any Guarantee Application.
(d)
Secondary Loan default rate.
The Eligible CDFI may charge a default rate on the Secondary Loan so long as such rate does not exceed the Maximum Secondary Rate, plus the Maximum Secondary Loan Default Spread.
(e)
Secondary Loan maturity.
The maturity date with respect to the Secondary Loan shall be in accordance with the requirements of the applicable Secondary Loan Requirements. The maturity date of Secondary Loans may be earlier than, but may not be later than, the maturity date of the corresponding Bond.
(f)
Secondary Loan collateral.
(1) The Secondary Loan shall be payable from amounts made available pursuant to the Secondary Loan documents, and secured by:
(i) A first lien of the Eligible CDFI on pledged collateral in an amount that is consistent with the loan-to-value ratio requirements set forth in the Secondary Loan Requirements; or
(ii) A Principal Loss Collateral Provision for the benefit of the Master Servicer/Trustee, in accordance with the Bond Loan Requirements and the Secondary Loan Requirements, as applicable.
(2) Qualified Secondary Loan Receivables may be used as collateral; provided however, that such collateral is secured by a first lien on the Secondary Loan collateral in accordance with the Bond Loan Requirements and the Secondary Loan Requirements, as applicable.
(3) A parity first lien on pledged collateral may be accepted, in the sole discretion of the CDFI Fund.
(g)
Commitments for Secondary Loans.
Each proposed Secondary Loan shall be approved by the credit committee of the Eligible CDFI or its equivalent, in
accordance with the applicable Secondary Loan Requirements and the Eligible CDFI's own underwriting requirements.
(h)
Disbursement of Secondary Loan proceeds.
(1) Consistent with the corresponding Bond Loan, Secondary Loans shall be draw-down loans. Disbursements of Secondary Loan proceeds to the Secondary Borrower shall be made pursuant to a requisition process established by the Qualified Issuer and the CDFI Fund and shall mirror the requirements for the disbursement of Bond Proceeds.
(2) Each requisition shall be accompanied by invoices and certifications by the Secondary Borrower as to expenditure of proceeds for Eligible Purposes. The Eligible CDFI must also attest that the Secondary Loan conforms to the requirements set forth in the applicable Secondary Loan Requirements. In the case of Refinancings, the Eligible CDFI must also attest that the original loan was used for an Eligible Purpose.
(3) Secondary Loan proceeds shall be disbursed in accordance with the applicable Secondary Loan Requirements which shall set forth, among other requirements, that Secondary Loan disbursements shall be made in accordance with commercially reasonable standards and timeframes for disbursement based on the nature of the Eligible Purposes. The Secondary Loan Requirements shall also specify what constitutes a commercially reasonable timeframe for disbursement in connection with specific types of Eligible Purposes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Eligible CDFI shall propose a timeframe for disbursement in connection with each Secondary Loan, which timeframe shall be subject to the requirements set forth in the Secondary Loan Requirements.
(i)
Amortization of Secondary Loans.
Secondary Loans shall amortize as determined by the Eligible CDFI; provided that Secondary Loan amortization installments shall conform to the requirements of the applicable Secondary Loan Requirements.
(j)
Prepayment of Secondary Loans.
Secondary Loans shall be subject to prepayment as determined by the Eligible CDFI; provided that the Secondary Loan documents may provide for modification of Secondary Loan terms (so long as such modification does not affect the corresponding Bond or Bond Loan) and shall provide for mandatory prepayment of the Secondary Loan from liquidation of collateral upon the exercise of default remedies by the Eligible CDFI, the Qualified Issuer or the Guarantor as required by the Bond, the Bond Loan documents, or the Agreement to Guarantee, as applicable.
(k)
Repayment of Secondary Loans.
As Secondary Loans are repaid, the Eligible CDFI may, through the Relending Fund, Refinance and substitute as collateral for the Bond Loan other loan(s) for Eligible Purposes that meet the required Secondary Loan Requirements, provided that the Eligible CDFI makes Bond Loan payments as required. If the outstanding principal balance of the Bond Loan exceeds the outstanding principal balance of the Bond Loan in use for the Eligible Purposes, the Eligible CDFI shall repay the difference, which shall be deposited in the Relending Account, and credited to the corresponding Relending Subaccount.
§ 1808.308
Relending Fund; Relending Account.
(a)
General.
As Bond Loans are repaid, such amounts in excess of those required for debt service payments on the Bonds may be held in the Relending Account and used for additional Secondary Loans, to the extent authorized in this section.
(b)
Application of funds to Secondary Loans.
Amounts on deposit in the Relending Account shall be applied by the Eligible CDFI to make additional Secondary Loans, the term of which shall not exceed the maturity of the Bond.
(c)
Requirements of Secondary Loans from Relending Account.
Secondary Loans made from the Relending Account shall meet all the requirements of the Secondary Loan Requirements, and conform to the following additional conditions:
(1) The Qualified Issuer has received and approved a Bond Loan commitment request submitted by the Eligible CDFI;
(2) No material event has occurred and is continuing or is threatened at
the Eligible CDFI level or Qualified Issuer level that adversely affects the Eligible CDFI, the Bond or the Bond Loan;
(3) No Eligible CDFI event of default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Bond Loan;
(4) No Qualified Issuer event of default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Bond;
(5) There exists no unreplenished draw on the Risk-Share Pool Fund by the Eligible CDFI;
(6) The maturity of Secondary Loans made from the Relending Fund shall not extend beyond the maturity date of the corresponding Bond; and
(7) Any other conditions set forth in this interim rule, the applicable Notice of Guarantee Availability, the Secondary Loan Requirements or the Bond Loan documents.
(d)
Relending Subaccounts.
The balance of each subaccount of the Relending Fund (each a Relending Subaccount) shall not equal more than 10 percent of the principal amount outstanding of the Bond Loan, minus the prorata share of the Risk-Share Pool, as of the Calculation Date (the Relending Subaccount Maximum).
(e)
Notification Date.
For purposes of this section, Notification Date means the date on which the Master Servicer/Trustee notifies the Eligible CDFI that the balance in the applicable Relending Subaccount exceeds the applicable Relending Subaccount Maximum. Calculation Date means, following the Notification Date, the earlier of:
(1) The date on which the balance in such Relending Subaccount becomes less than or equal to the applicable Relending Subaccount Maximum, or
(2) Six months following the Notification Date.
(f)
Mandatory redemption.
Any amounts retained in the Relending Subaccount that exceeds the Relending Subaccount Maximum by $100,000 or more as of the applicable Calculation Date shall be transferred to the Redemption Account of the Debt Service Fund (as defined in § 1808.606(f)) to effectuate a mandatory redemption of the corresponding Bond in accordance with the terms of the Bond Trust Indenture. The determination of the actual amount on deposit on any Calculation Date shall exclude amounts then obligated pursuant to any executed promissory notes, whether then disbursed or undisbursed.
§ 1808.309
Restrictions on uses of Bond Proceeds and Bond Loan proceeds.
Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 47123a(c)(5), Bond Loan proceeds shall not be used for:
(a) Political activities;
(b) Lobbying, whether directly or through other parties;
(c) Outreach;
