June 26, 2025
Title 40
Protection of Environment
Parts 82 to 84
Revised as of July 1, 2025
Containing a codification of documents of general applicability and future effect
As of July 1, 2025
Published by the Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration as a Special Edition of the Federal Register

# U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

# Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
e:\seals\archives.ai
The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as the official codification of Federal regulations established under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is prima facie evidence of the original documents published in the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).
It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this material without the express, written permission of the Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 1017.

# Use of ISBN Prefix
This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of the 0-16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work with a new ISBN.
e:\seals\gpologo2.eps
U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E
U.S. Superintendent of Documents • Washington, DC 20402-0001
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

# Table of Contents
Page
Explanation
v

# Title 40:
Chapter I—Environmental Protection Agency (Continued)
3

# Finding Aids:
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
487
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
507
List of CFR Sections Affected
517
Cite this Code:
CFR
To cite the regulations in this volume use title, part and section number. Thus,
40 CFR 82.1
refers to title 40, part 82, section 1.

# Explanation
The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16
as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27
as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41
as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50
as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.

# LEGAL STATUS
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

# HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date (in this case, July 1, 2025), consult the “List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),” which is issued monthly, and the “Cumulative List of Parts Affected,” which appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

# EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following the text.

# OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

# PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a “List of CFR Sections Affected” is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

# “[RESERVED]” TERMINOLOGY
The term “[Reserved]” is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a “[Reserved]” location at any time. Occasionally “[Reserved]” is used editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.

# INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference?
Incorporation by reference was established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference?
The Director of the Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is adequately summarized in the preamble of the final rule and is available to the extent necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found?
If you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or email fr.inspection@nara.gov.

# CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES
A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR
Index and Finding Aids.
This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in this volume.
An index to the text of “Title 3—The President” is carried within that volume.
The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. This index is based on a consolidation of the “Contents” entries in the daily Federal Register.
A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

# REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL
There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing in the Code of Federal Regulations.

# INQUIRIES
For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at the top of odd-numbered pages.
For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or e-mail
fedreg.info@nara.gov.

# SALES
The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, write to: U.S. Government Publishing Office Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013-7082.

# ELECTRONIC SERVICES
The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal Register, Public Laws, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act Compilation are available in electronic format via
www.govinfo.gov.
For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-mail,
ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) website for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related information. Connect to NARA's website at
www.archives.gov/federal-register.
The eCFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is available at
www.ecfr.gov.
Oliver A. Potts,
Director,
Office of the Federal Register
July 1, 2025

# THIS TITLE
Title 40—
Protection of Environment
is composed of thirty-seven volumes. The parts in these volumes are arranged in the following order: Parts 1-49, parts 50-51, part 52 (52.01-52.1018), part 52 (52.1019-52.2019), part 52 (52.2020-end of part 52), parts 53-59, part 60 (60.1-60.499), part 60 (60.500-end of part 60, sections), part 60 (Appendices), parts 61-62, part 63 (63.1-63.599), part 63 (63.600-63.1199), part 63 (63.1200-63.1439), part 63 (63.1440-63.6175), part 63 (63.6580-63.8830), part 63 (63.8980-end of part 63), parts 64-71, parts 72-78, parts 79-80, part 81, parts 82-84, parts 85-96, parts 97-99, parts 100-135, parts 136-149, parts 150-189, parts 190-259, parts 260-265, parts 266-299, parts 300-399, parts 400-424, parts 425-699, parts 700-722, parts 723-789, parts 790-999, parts 1000-1059, and part 1060 to end. The contents of these volumes represent all current regulations codified under this title of the CFR as of July 1, 2025.
Chapter I—Environmental Protection Agency appears in all thirty-seven volumes. OMB control numbers for title 40 appear in § 9.1 of this chapter.
Chapters IV-IX—Regulations issued by the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice, Council on Environmental Quality, Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces, Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council, and the Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council appear in volume thirty-seven.
For this volume, Ann Worley was Chief Editor, aided by Tess Waroich. The Code of Federal Regulations publication program is under the direction of John Hyrum Martinez, assisted by Stephen J. Frattini.
40 CFR Ch. I (7-1-25 Edition)
Environmental Protection Agency

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
(This book contains parts 82 to 84)
Part
chapter i
—Environmental Protection Agency (Continued)
82

# CHAPTER I—ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (CONTINUED)

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to chapter I appear at 65 FR 47324, 47325, Aug. 2, 2000; 66 FR 34375, 34376, June 28, 2001.

# SUBCHAPTER C—AIR PROGRAMS (CONTINUED)
Part
Page
82
Protection of stratospheric ozone
5
83
[Reserved]
84
Phasedown of hydrofluorocarbons
414

# SUBCHAPTER C—AIR PROGRAMS (CONTINUED)
Pt. 82

# PART 82—PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE

# Subpart A—Production and Consumption Controls
Sec.
82.1
Purpose and scope.
82.2
[Reserved]
82.3
Definitions for class I and class II controlled substances.
82.4
Prohibitions for class I controlled substances.
82.5
Apportionment of baseline production allowances for class I controlled substances.
82.6
Apportionment of baseline consumption allowances for class I controlled substances.
82.7
Grant and phase reduction of baseline production and consumption allowances for class I controlled substances.
82.8
Grant of essential use allowances and critical use allowances.
82.9
Availability of production allowances in addition to baseline production allowances for class I controlled substances.
82.10
[Reserved]
82.11
Exports of class I controlled substances to Article 5 Parties.
82.12
Transfers of allowances for class I controlled substances.
82.13
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements for class I controlled substances.
82.14
Process for electronic reporting.
82.15
Prohibitions for class II controlled substances.
82.16
Phaseout schedule of class II controlled substances.
82.17
Apportionment of baseline production allowances for class II controlled substances.
82.18
Availability of production in addition to baseline production allowances for class II controlled substances.
82.19
Apportionment of baseline consumption allowances for class II controlled substances.
82.20
Availability of consumption allowances in addition to baseline consumption allowances for class II controlled substances.
82.21-82.22
[Reserved]
82.23
Transfers of allowances of class II controlled substances.
82.24
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements for class II controlled substances.
82.25
Emissions of controlled substances from industrial sources.
82.26
Treatment of data submitted under this subpart.
82.27
Incorporation by reference.
Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 82—Class I Controlled Substances
Appendix B to Subpart A of Part 82—Class II Controlled Substances
Appendix C to Subpart A of Part 82 [Reserved]
Appendix D to Subpart A of Part 82—Harmonized Tariff Schedule Description of Products That May Contain Controlled Substances in Appendix A, Class I, Groups I and II
Appendix E to Subpart A of Part 82—Article 5 Parties
Appendix F to Subpart A of Part 82—Listing of Ozone-Depleting Chemicals
Appendix G to Subpart A of Part 82—UNEP Recommendations for Conditions Applied to Exemption for Essential Laboratory and Analytical Uses
Appendix H to Subpart A of Part 82—Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 Phaseout Schedule for Production of Ozone-Depleting Substances
Appendix I to Subpart A of Part 82—Global Warming Potentials (Mass Basis), Referenced to the Absolute GWP for the Adopted Carbon Cycle Model CO
2
Decay Response and Future CO
2
Atmospheric Concentrations Held Constant at Current Levels. (Only Direct Effects Are Considered.)
Appendix J to Subpart A of Part 82—Parties to the Montreal Protocol Classified Under Article 5(1) That Have Banned the Import of Controlled Products That Rely on Class I Controlled Substances for Their Continuing Functioning [Reserved]
Appendix K to Subpart A of Part 82—Commodity Codes From the Harmonized Tariff Schedule for Controlled Substances and Used Controlled Substances
Appendix L to Subpart A of Part 82—Approved Critical Uses and Limiting Critical Conditions for Those Uses

# Subpart B—Servicing of Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners
82.30
Purpose and scope.
82.31
Incorporation by reference.
82.32
Definitions.
82.34
Prohibitions and required practices.
82.36
Approved refrigerant handling equipment.
82.38
Approved independent standards testing organizations.
82.40
Technician training and certification.
82.42
Certification, recordkeeping and public notification requirements.
Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 82—Standard for Recycle/Recover Equipment
Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 82—Standard for Recover Equipment
Appendix C to Subpart B of Part 82—SAE J2788 Standard for Recovery/Recycle and Recovery/Recycle/Recharging Equipment for HFC-134
a
Refrigerant
Appendix D to Subpart B of Part 82—SAE J2810 Standard for Recovery Only Equipment for HFC-134
a
Refrigerant
Appendix E to Subpart B of Part 82—The Standard for Automotive Refrigerant Recycling Equipment Intended for Use With Both CFC-12 and HFC-134
a
Appendix F to Subpart B of Part 82—Standard for Recover-Only Equipment That Extracts a Single, Specific Refrigerant Other Than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or R-1234yf

# Subpart C—Ban on Nonessential Products Containing Class I Substances and Ban on Nonessential Products Containing or Manufactured With Class II Substances
82.60
Purpose.
82.62
Definitions.
82.64
Prohibitions.
82.65
Temporary exemptions.
82.66
Nonessential Class I products and exceptions.
82.68
Verification and public notice requirements.
82.70
Nonessential Class II products and exceptions.

# Subpart D—Federal Procurement
82.80
Purpose and scope.
82.82
Definitions.
82.84
Requirements.
82.86
Reporting requirements.

# Subpart E—The Labeling of Products Using Ozone-Depleting Substances
82.100
Purpose.
82.102
Applicability.
82.104
Definitions.
82.106
Warning statement requirements.
82.108
Placement of warning statement.
82.110
Form of label bearing warning statement.
82.112
Removal of label bearing warning statement.
82.114
Compliance by manufacturers and importers with requirements for labeling of containers of controlled substances, or products containing controlled substances.
82.116
Compliance by manufacturers or importers incorporating products manufactured with controlled substances.
82.118
Compliance by wholesalers, distributors and retailers.
82.120
Petitions.
82.122
Certification, recordkeeping, and notice requirements.
82.124
Prohibitions.

# Subpart F—Recycling and Emissions Reduction
82.150
Purpose and scope.
82.152
Definitions.
82.154
Prohibitions.
82.155
Safe disposal of appliances.
82.156
Proper evacuation of refrigerant from appliances.
82.157
Appliance maintenance and leak repair.
82.158
Standards for recovery and/or recycling equipment.
82.160
Approved equipment testing organizations.
82.161
Technician certification.
82.162
[Reserved]
82.164
Reclaimer certification.
82.166
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements for leak repair.
82.168
Incorporation by reference.
82.169
Suspension and revocation procedures.
Appendix A to Subpart F of Part 82—Specifications for Refrigerants
Appendix A1 to Subpart F of Part 82—Generic Maximum Contaminant Levels
Appendix B1 to Subpart F of Part 82—Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling and/or Reclaim Equipment
Appendix B2 to Subpart F of Part 82—Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling, and/or Reclaim Equipment
Appendix B3 to Subpart F of Part 82—Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling, and/or Reclaim Equipment
Appendix B4 to Subpart F of Part 82—Performance and Safety of Flammable Refrigerant Recovery and/or Recycling Equipment
Appendix C to Subpart F of Part 82—Method for Testing Recovery Devices for Use With Small Appliances
Appendix D to Subpart F of Part 82—Standards for Becoming a Certifying Program for Technicians
Appendix E to Subpart F of Part 82—Test Procedure for Leaks From Containers Holding Two Pounds or Less of Refrigerant for Use in an MVAC

# Subpart G—Significant New Alternatives Policy Program
82.170
Purpose and scope.
82.172
Definitions.
82.174
Prohibitions.
82.176
Applicability.
82.178
Information required to be submitted.
82.180
Agency review of SNAP submissions.
82.182
Confidentiality of data.
82.184
Petitions.
Appendix A to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions and Unacceptable Substitutes
Appendix B to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions and Unacceptable Substitutes
Appendix C to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions and Unacceptable Substitutes Listed in the May 22, 1996 Final Rule, Effective June 21, 1996
Appendix D to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions and Unacceptable Substitutes
Appendix E to Subpart G of Part 82—Unacceptable Substitutes Listed in the January 26, 1999 Final Rule, Effective January 26, 1999
Appendix F to Subpart G of Part 82—Unacceptable Substitutes Listed in the January 26, 1999 Final Rule, Effective January 26, 1999
Appendix G to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions and Unacceptable Substitutes Listed in the March 3, 1999, Final Rule, Effective April 2, 1999
Appendix H to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions and Unacceptable Substitutes, Effective May 28, 1999
Appendix I to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions, Listed in the April 26, 2000, Final Rule, Effective May 26, 2000
Appendix J to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes listed in the January 29, 2002 Final Rule, effective April 1, 2002
Appendix K to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions and Unacceptable Substitutes Listed in the July 22, 2002, Final Rule, Effective August 21, 2002
Appendix L to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Listed in the January 27, 2003, Final Rule, Effective March 28, 2003
Appendix M to Subpart G of Part 82—Unacceptable Substitutes Listed in the September 30, 2004 Final Rule, Effective November 29, 2004
Appendix N to Subpart G of Part 82 [Reserved]
Appendix O to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Listed in the September 27, 2006 Final Rule, Effective November 27, 2006
Appendix P to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Listed in the September 27, 2006 Final Rule, Effective November 27, 2006
Appendix Q to Subpart G of Part 82—Unacceptable Substitutes Listed in the March 28, 2007 Final Rule, Effective May 29, 2007
Appendix R to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions Listed in the December 20, 2011, Final Rule, Effective February 21, 2012, in the April 10, 2015, Final Rule, Effective May 11, 2015, in the April 28, 2023, Final Rule, Effective May 30, 2023, and in the June 13, 2024, Final Rule, Effective July 15, 2024
Appendix S to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Listed in the September 19, 2012 Final Rule, Effective December 18, 2012.
Appendix T to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes listed in the April 29, 2013 Final Rule, effective May 29, 2013.
Appendix U to Subpart G of Part 82—Unacceptable Substitutes and Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions Listed in the July 20, 2015 Final Rule, Effective August 19, 2015
Appendix V to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions and Unacceptable Substitutes Listed in the December 1, 2016, Final Rule, Effective January 3, 2017, and Listed in the June 13, 2024 Final Rule, Effective July 15, 2024
Appendix W to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Listed in the May 6, 2021 Final Rule—Effective June 7, 2021
Appendix X to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Listed in the April 28, 2023 Final Rule—Effective May 30, 2023
Appendix Y to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Listed in the June 13, 2024, Final Rule, Effective July 15, 2024

# Subpart H—Halon Emissions Reduction
82.250
Purpose and scope.
82.260
Definitions.
82.270
Prohibitions.

# Subpart I—Ban on Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Appliances Containing HCFCs
82.300
Purpose.
82.302
Definitions.
82.304
Prohibitions.
82.306
Prohibited products.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7414, 7601, 7671-7671q.

# Source:
57 FR 33787, July 30, 1992, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Production and Consumption Controls

# Source:
60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 82.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of the regulations in this subpart is to implement the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and sections 602, 603, 604, 605, 606, 607, 614 and 616 of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, Public Law 101-549. The Protocol and section 604 impose limits on the production and consumption (defined as production plus imports minus exports, excluding transhipments and used controlled substances) of certain ozone-depleting substances, according to specified schedules. The Protocol also requires each nation that becomes a Party to the agreement to impose certain restrictions on trade in ozone-depleting substances with non-Parties.
(b) This subpart applies to any person that produces, transforms, destroys, imports or exports a controlled substance or imports or exports a controlled product.
[63 FR 41642, Aug. 4, 1998]
§ 82.2
[Reserved]
§ 82.3
Definitions for class I and class II controlled substances.
As used in this subpart, the term:
Administrator
means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or his or her authorized representative. Starting May 18, 2020, reports and petitions that are available to be submitted through the Central Data Exchange, as well as any related supporting documents, must be submitted through that tool. Any other reports and communications shall be submitted to Stratospheric Protection Manager, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Mail Code: 6205T, Washington, DC 20460.
Aircraft halon bottle
means a vessel used as a component of an aircraft fire suppression system containing halon-1301 or halon-1211 approved under FAA rules for installation in a certificated aircraft.
Appliance
means any device which contains and uses a refrigerant and which is used for household or commercial purposes, including any air conditioner, refrigerator, chiller, or freezer.
Applicator
means the person who applies methyl bromide.
Approved critical use(s)
means those uses of methyl bromide listed in Column A of appendix L to this subpart as further clarified in Columns B and C of that appendix.
Approved critical user(s) means a person who:
(1) For the applicable control period, applied to EPA for a critical use exemption or is a member of a consortium that applied to EPA for a critical use exemption for a use and location of use that was included in the U.S. nomination, authorized by a Decision of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol, and then finally determined by EPA in a notice-and-comment rulemaking to be an approved critical use; and
(2) Has an area in the applicable location of use that requires methyl bromide fumigation because the person reasonably expects that the area will be subject to a limiting critical condition during the applicable control period.
Article 5 allowances
means the allowances apportioned under §§ 82.9(a), 82.11(a)(2), and 82.18(a).
Baseline consumption allowances
means the consumption allowances apportioned under §§ 82.6 and 82.19.
Baseline production allowances
means the production allowances apportioned under §§ 82.5 and 82.17.
Batch emission episode
means a discrete venting episode associated with a vessel in a process; a vessel may have more than one batch emission episode. For example, a displacement of vapor resulting from the charging of a vessel with a feed material will result in a discrete emission episode that will last through the duration of the charge and will have an average flow rate equal to the rate of the charge. If the vessel is then heated, there will also be another discrete emission episode resulting from the expulsion of expanded vapor. Other emission episodes also may occur from the same vessel and other vessels in the process, depending on process operations.
Batch process or batch operation
means a noncontinuous operation involving intermittent or discontinuous feed into equipment, and, in general, involves the emptying of the equipment after the batch operation ceases and prior to beginning a new operation. Addition of
raw material and withdrawal of product do not occur simultaneously in a batch operation.
Beijing Amendments
means the Montreal Protocol, as amended at the Eleventh Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol in Beijing in 1999.
Byproduct
(for the purpose of this subpart only) means a chemical that is produced coincidentally during the production of another chemical.
Calculated level
means the weighted amount of a controlled substance determined by multiplying the amount (in kilograms) of the controlled substance by that substance's ozone depletion potential (ODP) weight listed in appendix A or appendix B to this subpart.
Central Data Exchange
means EPA's centralized electronic document receiving system, or its successors.
Class I
refers to the controlled substances listed in appendix A to this subpart.
Class II
refers to the controlled substances listed in appendix B to this subpart.
Commodity Owner, Shipper or their Agent
means the person requesting that an applicator use methyl bromide for quarantine or preshipment applications.
Completely destroy
means to cause the expiration of a controlled substance at a destruction efficiency of 98 percent or greater, using one of the destruction technologies approved by the Parties.
Confer
means to shift the essential-use allowances obtained under § 82.8 from the holder of the unexpended essential-use allowances to a person for the production of a specified controlled substance.
Consortium
means an organization representing a group of methyl bromide users that has collectively submitted an application for a critical use exemption on behalf of all members of the group. The members of a consortium shall be determined on the basis of the rules established by the organization. Members may either be required to formally join the consortium (
e.g.
, by submitting an application or paying dues) or may automatically become members upon meeting particular criteria (
e.g.
, a grower of a specific crop in a particular region).
Consumption
means the production plus imports minus exports of a controlled substance (other than transhipments, or used controlled substances).
Consumption allowances
means the privileges granted by this subpart to produce and import controlled substances; however, consumption allowances may be used to produce controlled substances only in conjunction with production allowances. A person's consumption allowances for class I substances are the total of the allowances obtained under §§ 82.6 and 82.7 as may be modified under § 82.12 (transfer of allowances). A person's consumption allowances for class II controlled substances are the total of the allowances obtained under §§ 82.19 and 82.20, as may be modified under § 82.23.
Continuous process or operation
means a process where the inputs and outputs flow continuously throughout the duration of the process. Continuous processes are typically steady state.
Control period
means the period from January 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992, and each twelve-month period from January 1 through December 31, thereafter.
Controlled product
means a product that contains a controlled substance listed as a Class I, Group I or II substance in appendix A to this subpart. Controlled products include, but are not limited to, those products listed in appendix D to this subpart.
Controlled products belong to one or more of the following six categories of products:
(1) Automobile and truck air conditioning units (whether incorporated in vehicles or not);
(2) Domestic and commercial refrigeration and air-conditioning/heat pump equipment (whether containing controlled substances as a refrigerant and/or in insulating material of the product), e.g. Refrigerators, Freezers, Dehumidifiers, Water coolers, Ice machines, Air-conditioning and heat pump units;
(3) Aerosol products, except medical aerosols;
(4) Portable fire extinguishers;
(5) Insulation boards, panels and pipe covers;
(6) Pre-polymers.
Controlled substance
means any substance listed in appendix A or appendix B to this subpart, whether existing alone or in a mixture, but excluding any such substance or mixture that is in a manufactured product other than a container used for the transportation or storage of the substance or mixture. Thus, any amount of a listed substance in appendix A or appendix B to this subpart that is not part of a use system containing the substance is a controlled substance. If a listed substance or mixture must first be transferred from a bulk container to another container, vessel, or piece of equipment in order to realize its intended use, the listed substance or mixture is a “controlled substance.” The inadvertent or coincidental creation of insignificant quantities of a listed substance in appendix A or appendix B to this subpart; during a chemical manufacturing process, resulting from unreacted feedstock, from the listed substance's use as a process agent present as a trace quantity in the chemical substance being manufactured, or as an unintended byproduct of research and development applications, is not deemed a controlled substance. Controlled substances are divided into two classes, Class I in appendix A to this subpart, and Class II listed in appendix B to this subpart. Class I substances are further divided into eight groups, Group I, Group II, Group III, Group IV, Group V, Group VI, Group VII, and Group VIII, as set forth in appendix A to this subpart.
Copenhagen Amendments
means the Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer, as amended at the Fourth Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol in Copenhagen in 1992.
Critical use
means a circumstance in which the following two conditions are satisfied:
(1) There are no technically and economically feasible alternatives or substitutes for methyl bromide available that are acceptable from the standpoint of environment and health and are suitable to the crops and circumstances involved, and
(2) The lack of availability of methyl bromide for a particular use would result in significant market disruption.
Critical use allowance (CUA)
means the privilege granted by this subpart to produce or import one (1) kilogram of methyl bromide for an approved critical use during the specified control period. A person's critical use allowances are the total of the allowances obtained under § 82.8(c) as may be modified under § 82.12 (transfer of allowances).
Critical use allowance for pre-plant uses
means the privilege granted by this subpart to produce or import one (1) kilogram of methyl bromide solely for an approved critical use in pre-plant categories specified in appendix L to this subpart during the specified control period. A person's critical use allowances for pre-plant uses are the total of the allowances obtained under § 82.8(c) as may be modified under § 82.12 (transfer of allowances).
Critical use allowance for post-harvest uses
means the privilege granted by this subpart to produce or import one (1) kilogram of methyl bromide solely for an approved critical use in post-harvest categories specified in appendix L to this subpart during the specified control period. A person's critical use allowances for post-harvest uses are the total of the allowances obtained under § 82.8(c) as may be modified under § 82.12 (transfer of allowances).
Critical use allowance (CUA) holder
means an entity to which EPA allocates a quantity of critical use allowances as reflected in § 82.8(c) or who receives a quantity of critical use allowances through a transfer under § 82.12.
Critical use methyl bromide
means the class I, Group VI controlled substance produced or imported through expending a critical use allowance or that portion of inventory produced or imported prior to the January 1, 2005 phaseout date that is sold only for approved critical uses.
Destruction
means the expiration of a controlled substance to the destruction and removal efficiency actually achieved, unless considered completely destroyed as defined in this section. Such destruction might result in a commercially useful end product, but such usefulness would be secondary to the act of destruction. Destruction
must be achieved using one of the following controlled processes approved by the Parties to the Protocol:
(1) Liquid injection incineration;
(2) Reactor cracking;
(3) Gaseous/fume oxidation;
(4) Rotary kiln incineration;
(5) Cement kiln;
(6) Radio frequency plasma;
(7) Municipal waste incinerators (only for the destruction of foams);
(8) Nitrogen plasma arc;
(9) Portable plasma arc;
(10) Argon plasma arc;
(11) Chemical reaction with hydrogen and carbon dioxide;
(12) Inductively coupled radio frequency plasma;
(13) Microwave plasma;
(14) Porous thermal reactor;
(15) Gas phase catalytic de-halogenation;
(16) Superheated steam reactor; or
(17) Thermal reaction with methane.
Difficult-to-monitor
means the equipment piece may not be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters (7 feet) above a support surface or it is not accessible in a safe manner when it is in controlled substance service.
Distributor of methyl bromide
means the person directly selling a class I, Group VI controlled substance to an applicator.
Dual mechanical seal pump and dual mechanical seal agitator
means a pump or agitator equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system where the barrier fluid is not in light liquid service; each barrier fluid system is equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both; and meets the following requirements:
(1) Each dual mechanical seal system is operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is at all times (except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction) greater than the pump or agitator stuffing box pressure; or
(2) Equipped with a barrier fluid degassing reservoir that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or connected by a closed-vent system to a control device; or
(3) Equipped with a closed-loop system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream.
Equipment
(for the purposes of § 82.25 only) means each pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, connector, and instrumentation system in controlled substance service for a process listed in § 82.25(b)(2); and any destruction units or closed-vent systems to which corresponding processes are vented.
Essential Metered Dose Inhaler (Essential MDI)
means metered dose inhalers for the treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, approved by the Food and Drug Administration or by another Party's analogous health authority before December 31, 2000, and considered to be essential by the Party where the MDI product will eventually be sold. In addition, if the MDI product is to be sold in the U.S., the active moiety contained in the MDI must be listed as essential at 21 CFR 2.125(e).
Essential-Use Allowances
means the privileges granted by § 82.4(n) to produce class I substances, as determined by allocation decisions made by the Parties to the Montreal Protocol and in accordance with the restrictions delineated in the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990.
Essential-Use Chlorofluorocarbons (Essential-use CFCs)
are the CFCs (CFC-11, CFC-12, or CFC-114) produced under the authority of essential-use allowances and not the allowances themselves. Essential-use CFCs include CFCs imported or produced by U.S. entities under the authority of essential-use allowances for use in essential metered dose inhalers, as well as CFCs imported or produced by non-U.S. entities under the authority of privileges granted by the Parties and the national authority of another country for use in essential metered dose inhalers.
Essential-Uses
means those uses of controlled substances designated by the Parties to the Protocol to be necessary for the health and safety of, or critical for the functioning of, society; and for which there are no available technically and economically feasible
alternatives or substitutes that are acceptable from the standpoint of environment and health. Beginning January 1, 2000 (January 1, 2002 for methyl chloroform) the essential use designations for class I substances must be made in accordance with the provisions of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990.
Export
means the transport of virgin or used controlled substances from inside the United States or its territories to persons outside the United States or its territories, excluding United States military bases and ships for on-board use.
Export production allowances
means the privileges granted by § 82.18(b) to produce HCFC-141b for export following the phaseout of HCFC-141b on January 1, 2003.
Exporter
means the person who contracts to sell controlled substances for export or transfers controlled substances to his affiliate in another country.
Facility
means one or more plants at the same location owned by or under common control of the same person.
Foreign state
means an entity which is recognized as a sovereign nation or country other than the United States of America.
1
1
Taiwan is not considered a foreign state.
Foreign state complying with,
when referring to a foreign state not Party to the 1987 Montreal Protocol, the London Amendment, the Copenhagen Amendment, or the Beijing Amendment, means any foreign state that has been determined to be complying with the 1987 Montreal Protocol or the specified amendments by a Meeting of the Parties.
Foreign state not Party to
or
Non-Party
means a foreign state that has not deposited instruments of ratification, acceptance, or other form of approval with the Directorate of the United Nations Secretariat, evidencing the foreign state's ratification of the provisions of the 1987 Montreal Protocol, the London Amendment, the Copenhagen Amendment, or the Beijing Amendment, as specified.
Halon bank
means a facility run by a national government or privately run and authorized by a national government that collects and stores previously-recovered halon for reuse at a later date.granted to a HCFC-141b formulator; an agency, department, or instrumentality of the U.S.; or a non-governmental space vehicle entity by this subpart to order production of or to import HCFC-141b, as determined in accordance with § 82.16(h).
Heel
means the amount of a controlled substance that remains in a container after it is discharged or off-loaded (that is no more than ten percent of the volume of the container).
Hydrostatic testing
means checking a gas pressure vessel for leaks or flaws. The vessel is filled with a nearly incompressible liquid—usually water or oil—and examined for leaks or permanent changes in shape.
Import
means to land on, bring into, or introduce into, or attempt to land on, bring into, or introduce into any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States whether or not such landing, bringing, or introduction constitutes an importation within the meaning of the customs laws of the United States, with the following exemptions:
(1) Off-loading used or excess controlled substances or controlled products from a ship during servicing,
(2) Bringing controlled substances into the U.S. from Mexico where the controlled substance had been admitted into Mexico in bond and was of U.S. origin, and
(3) Bringing a controlled product into the U.S. when transported in a consignment of personal or household effects or in a similar non-commercial situation normally exempted from U.S. Customs attention.
Importer
means any person who imports a controlled substance or a controlled product into the United States. “Importer” includes the person primarily liable for the payment of any duties on the merchandise or an authorized agent acting on his or her behalf. The term also includes, as appropriate:
(1) The consignee;
(2) The importer of record;
(3) The actual owner; or
(4) The transferee, if the right to draw merchandise in a bonded warehouse has been transferred.
In controlled substance service
means that a piece of equipment that engages in an activity listed in § 82.25(b)(2), either contains or contacts a controlled substance that is a liquid or gas, and contains at least 5 percent by weight of a controlled substance.
In gas and vapor service
means that a piece of equipment in regulated material service contains a gas or vapor at operating conditions.
In heavy liquid service
means that a piece of equipment in regulated material service is not in gas and vapor service or in light liquid service.
In light liquid service
means that a piece of equipment in regulated material service contains a liquid that meets the following conditions:
(1) The vapor pressure of one or more of the compounds is greater than 0.3 kilopascals at 20 °C;
(2) The total concentration of the pure compounds constituents having a vapor pressure greater than 0.3 kilopascals at 20 °C is equal to or greater than 20 percent by weight of the total process stream; and
(3) The fluid is a liquid at operating conditions.

# Note 1 to definition of “in light liquid service”:
Vapor pressures may be determined by standard reference texts or ASTM D-2879.
In vacuum service
means that equipment is operating at an internal pressure which is at least 5 kilopascals below ambient pressure.
Individual shipment
means the kilograms of a controlled substance for which a person may make one (1) U.S. Customs entry, as identified in the non-objection letter from the Administrator under §§ 82.13(g) and 82.24(c).
Interstate commerce
means the distribution or transportation of any controlled substance between one state, territory, possession or the District of Columbia, and another state, territory, possession or the District of Columbia, or the sale, use or manufacture of any controlled substance in more than one state, territory, possession or District of Columbia. The entry points for which a controlled substance is introduced into interstate commerce are the release of a controlled substance from the facility in which the controlled substance was manufactured, the entry into a warehouse from which the domestic manufacturer releases the controlled substance for sale or distribution, and at the site of United States customs clearance.
Isolated intermediate
means a product of a process that is stored before subsequent processing. An isolated intermediate is usually a product of chemical synthesis. Storage of an isolated intermediate marks the end of a process. Storage occurs at any time the intermediate is placed in equipment used solely for storage.
Limiting critical condition
means the regulatory, technical, and economic circumstances listed in column C of appendix L to this subpart that establish conditions of critical use for methyl bromide in a fumigation area.
Location of use
means the geographic area (such as a state, region, or the entire United States) covered by an application for a critical use exemption in which the limiting critical condition may occur.
London Amendments
means the Montreal Protocol, as amended at the Second Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol in London in 1990.
Manufactured,
for an appliance, means the date upon which the appliance's refrigerant circuit is complete, the appliance can function, the appliance holds a full refrigerant charge, and the appliance is ready for use for its intended purposes; and for a pre-charged appliance component, means the date that such component is completely produced by the original equipment manufacture, charged with refrigerant, and is ready for initial sale or distribution in interstate commerce.
Montreal Anniversary amendments
means the Montreal Protocol, as amended at the Ninth Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol in Montreal in 1997.
Montreal Protocol
means the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, a protocol to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer, including adjustments adopted by the Parties thereto and amendments that have entered into force.
1987 Montreal Protocol
means the Montreal Protocol, as originally adopted by the Parties in 1987.
No external shaft pump and no external shaft agitator
means any pump or agitator that is designed with no externally actuated shaft penetrating the pump or agitator housing.
Non-Objection notice
means the privilege granted by the Administrator to import a specific individual shipment of a controlled substance in accordance with §§ 82.13(g)(2), (3), and (5) and 82.24(c)(3), (4), and (6).
Operating scenario
means any specific operation of a process and includes the information specified in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this definition for each process. A change or series of changes to any of these elements, except for paragraph (4) of this definition, constitutes a different operating scenario.
(1) A description of the process, the specific process equipment used, and the range of operating conditions for the process.
(2) An identification of related process vents, their associated emissions episodes and durations, and calculations and engineering analyses to show the annual uncontrolled emissions of controlled substances from the process vent.
(3) The control or destruction units used, as applicable, including a description of operating and/or testing conditions for any associated destruction unit.
(4) The process vents (including those from other processes) that are simultaneously routed to the control or destruction unit(s).
(5) The applicable monitoring requirements and any parametric level that assures destruction or removal for all emissions routed to the control or destruction unit.
Party
means a foreign state that has deposited instruments of ratification, acceptance, or other form of approval with the Directorate of the United Nations Secretariat, evidencing the foreign state's ratification of the provisions of the 1987 Montreal Protocol, the London Amendment, the Copenhagen Amendment, or the Beijing Amendment, as specified. (For ratification status, see:
http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php.
)
Person
means any individual or legal entity, including an individual, corporation, partnership, association, state, municipality, political subdivision of a state, Indian tribe; any agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States; and any officer, agent, or employee thereof.
Plant
means any process equipment (
e.g.,
reactor, distillation column) used to convert raw materials or feedstock chemicals into controlled substances or use controlled substances in the production of other chemicals.
Preshipment applications,
with respect to class I, Group VI controlled substances, are those non-quarantine applications applied within 21 days prior to export to meet the official requirements of the importing country or existing official requirements of the exporting country. Official requirements are those which are performed by, or authorized by, a national plant, animal, environmental, health or stored product authority.
Process
(for the purposes of § 82.25 only) means all equipment that collectively functions to engage in an activity listed in § 82.25(b)(2). A process may consist of one or more unit operations. For the purposes of § 82.25, process includes any, all, or a combination of reaction, recovery, separation, purification, or other activity, operation, manufacture, or treatment which are used to engage in an activity listed in § 82.25(b)(2). For a continuous process, cleaning operations may be considered part of the process at the discretion of the facility. For a batch process, cleaning operations are part of the process. Ancillary activities are not considered a process or part of any process under § 82.25. Ancillary activities include boilers and incinerators, chillers and refrigeration systems, and other equipment and activities that are not directly involved (
i.e.,
they operate within a closed system and materials are not combined with process fluids) in an activity listed in § 82.25(b)(2).
Process agent
means a controlled substance used to form the environment for a chemical reaction or inhibit an unintended chemical reaction (
e.g.,
use as a solvent, catalyst, or stabilizer) where the controlled substance is not consumed in the reaction, but is removed or recycled back into the process and where no more than trace
quantities remain in the final product. A feedstock, in contrast, is consumed during the reaction. The term process agent includes, but is not limited to: carbon tetrachloride used in the elimination of nitrogen trichloride in chlor-alkali production, carbon tetrachloride used in the recovery of chlorine by tail gas absorption from chlor-alkali production, CFC-11 used in the production of synthetic fiber sheet, bromochloromethane used in the bromination of a styrenic polymer, and CFC-113 used in the production of high modulus polyethylene fiber.
Process condenser
means a condenser whose primary purpose is to recover material as an integral part of a process. All condensers recovering condensate from a process vent at or above the boiling point or all condensers in line prior to a vacuum source are considered process condensers. Typically, a primary condenser or condensers in series are considered to be integral to the process if they are capable of and normally used for the purpose of recovering chemicals for fuel value (
i.e.,
net positive heating value), use, reuse or for sale for fuel value, use, or reuse.
Process vent
means a vent from a process vessel or vents from multiple process vessels within a process that are manifolded together into a common header, through which a controlled substance-containing gas stream is, or has the potential to be, released to the atmosphere (or the point of entry into a control device, if any). Examples of process vents include, but are not limited to, vents on condensers used for product recovery, bottoms receivers, surge control vessels, reactors, filters, centrifuges, and process tanks. Process vents do not include vents on storage tanks, wastewater emission sources, or pieces of equipment.
Production
means the manufacture of a controlled substance from any raw material or feedstock chemical, but does not include:
(1) The manufacture of a controlled substance that is subsequently transformed;
(2) The reuse or recycling of a controlled substance;
(3) Amounts that are destroyed by approved destruction technologies; or
(4) Amounts that are spilled or vented unintentionally.
Production allowances
means the privileges granted by this subpart to produce controlled substances; however, production allowances may be used to produce controlled substances only in conjunction with consumption allowances. A person's production allowances for class I substances are the total of the allowances obtained under §§ 82.5, 82.7 and 82.9, and as may be modified under § 82.12 (transfer of allowances). A person's production allowances for class II controlled substances are the total of the allowances obtained under § 82.17 and as may be modified under §§ 82.18 and 82.23.
Quarantine applications,
with respect to class I, Group VI controlled substances, are treatments to prevent the introduction, establishment and/or spread of quarantine pests (including diseases), or to ensure their official control, where: (1) Official control is that performed by, or authorized by, a national (including state, tribal or local) plant, animal or environmental protection or health authority; (2) quarantine pests are pests of potential importance to the areas endangered thereby and not yet present there, or present but not widely distributed and being officially controlled. This definition excludes treatments of commodities not entering or leaving the United States or any State (or political subdivision thereof).
Source facility
means the location at which a used controlled substance was recovered from a piece of equipment, including the name of the company responsible for, or owning the piece of equipment, a contact person at the location, the mailing address for that specific location, and a phone number and a fax number for the contact person at the location.
Space vehicle
means a man-made device, either manned or unmanned, designed for operation beyond earth's atmosphere. This definition includes integral equipment such as models, mock-ups, prototypes, molds, jigs, tooling, hardware jackets, and test coupons. Also included is auxiliary equipment associated with tests, transport,
and storage, which through contamination can compromise the space vehicle performance.
Third party applicator
means an applicator of critical use methyl bromide who fumigates or treats commodities, structures, crops, or land on behalf of an approved critical user.
Transform
means to use and entirely consume (except for trace quantities) a controlled substance in the manufacture of other chemicals for commercial purposes.
Transhipment
means the continuous shipment of a controlled substance, from a foreign state of origin through the United States or its territories, to a second foreign state of final destination, as long as the shipment does not enter into United States jurisdiction. A transhipment, as it moves through the United States or its territories, cannot be re-packaged, sorted or otherwise changed in condition.
Typical batch
means a batch process operated within a range of operating conditions that are documented in an operating scenario. Emissions from a typical batch are based on the operating conditions that result in representative emissions. The typical batch defines the uncontrolled emissions for each emission episode defined under the operating scenario.
Uncontrolled emissions of controlled substance
means a gas stream containing a controlled substance which has exited the process (or process condenser or control condenser, where applicable), but which has not yet been introduced into a destruction unit to reduce the mass of controlled substance in the stream. If the emissions from the process are not routed to a destruction unit, uncontrolled emissions are those controlled substance emissions released to the atmosphere.
Unexpended Article 5 allowances
means Article 5 allowances that have not been used. At any time in any control period a person's unexpended Article 5 allowances are the total of the level of Article 5 allowances the person has authorization under this subpart to hold at that time for that control period, minus the level of controlled substances that the person has produced in that control period until that time.
Unexpended consumption allowances
means consumption allowances that have not been used. At any time in any control period a person's unexpended consumption allowances are the total of the level of consumption allowances the person has authorization under this subpart to hold at that time for that control period, minus the level of controlled substances that the person has produced or imported (not including transhipments and used controlled substances) in that control period until that time.
Unexpended critical use allowances (CUA)
means critical use allowances against which methyl bromide has not yet been produced or imported. At any time in any control period a person's unexpended critical use allowances are the total of the level of critical use allowances the person holds at that time for that control period, minus the level of class I, Group VI controlled substances that the person has produced or has imported solely for approved critical uses in that control period.
Unexpended destruction and transformation credits
means destruction and transformation credits that have not been used. At any time in any control period a person's unexpended destruction and transformation credits are the total of the level of destruction and transformation credits the person has authorization under this subpart to hold at that time for that control period, minus the level of controlled substances that the person has produced or imported (not including transhipments and used controlled substances) in that control period until that time.
Unexpended essential-use allowances
means essential-use allowances that have not been used. At any time in any control period a person's unexpended essential-use allowances are the total of the level of essential-use allowances the person has authorization under this subpart to hold at that time for that control period, minus the level of controlled substances that the person has imported or had produced in that control period until that time.
Unexpended export production allowances
means export production allowances that have not been used. A person's unexpended export production allowances are the total of the quantity of the export production allowances the person has authorization under § 82.18(h) to hold for that control period, minus the quantity of class II controlled substances that the person has produced at that time during the same control period.
Unexpended production allowances
means production allowances that have not been used. At any time in any control period a person's unexpended production allowances are the total of the level of production allowances he has authorization under this subpart to hold at that time for that control period, minus the level of controlled substances that the person has produced in that control period until that time.
Unsafe-to-monitor
means that monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of monitoring the piece of equipment. Examples of unsafe-to-monitor equipment include, but are not limited to, equipment under extreme pressure or heat.
Use of a class II controlled substance,
for the purposes of § 82.15 of this subpart, includes but is not limited to, use in a manufacturing process, use in manufacturing a product, intermediate uses such as formulation or packaging for other subsequent uses, and use in maintaining, servicing, or repairing an appliance or other piece of equipment. Use of a class II controlled substance also includes use of that controlled substance when it is removed from a container used for the transportation or storage of the substance but does not include use of a manufactured product containing a controlled substance.
Used controlled substances
means controlled substances that have been recovered from their intended use systems (may include controlled substances that have been, or may be subsequently, recycled or reclaimed).
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 82.3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 82.4
Prohibitions for class I controlled substances.
(a)(1) Prior to January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, no person may produce, at any time in any control period, (except that are transformed or destroyed domestically or by a person of another Party) in excess of the amount of unexpended production allowances or unexpended Article 5 allowances for that substance held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess production constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
(2) Effective January 1, 2003, production of class I, Group VI controlled substances is not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (a)(1) of this section if it is solely for quarantine or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart.
(b)(1) Effective January 1, 1996, for any Class I, Group I, Group II, Group III, Group IV, Group V or Group VII controlled substances, and effective January 1, 2005 for any Class I, Group VI controlled substances, and effective August 18, 2003, for any Class I, Group VIII controlled substance, no person may produce, at any time in any control period (except that are transformed or destroyed domestically or by a person of another Party) in excess of the amount of conferred unexpended essential use allowances or exemptions, or in excess of the amount of unexpended critical use allowances, or in excess of the amount of unexpended Article 5 allowances as allocated under §§ 82.9 and 82.11, as may be modified under § 82.12 (transfer of allowances) for that substance held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess production constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
(2) Effective January 1, 2005, production of class I, Group VI controlled substances is not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if it is solely for quarantine or
preshipment applications as defined in this subpart, or it is solely for export to satisfy critical uses authorized by the Parties for that control period.
(c)(1) Prior to January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, no person may produce or (except for transhipments, heels or used controlled substances) import, at any time in any control period, (except for controlled substances that are transformed or destroyed) in excess of the amount of unexpended consumption allowances held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess production or importation (other than transhipments, heels or used controlled substances) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
(2) Effective January 1, 2003, production and import of class I, Group VI controlled substances is not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (c)(1) of this section if it is solely for quarantine or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart.
(d) Effective January 1, 1996, for any class I, Group I, Group II, Group III, Group IV, Group V, or Group VII controlled substances, and effective January 1, 2005, for any class I, Group VI controlled substance, and effective August 18, 2003, for any class I, Group VIII controlled substance, no person may import (except for transhipments or heels), at any time in any control period, (except for controlled substances that are transformed or destroyed) in excess of the amount of unexpended essential use allowances or exemptions, or in excess of unexpended critical use allowances, for that substance held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess importation (other than transhipments or heels) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. It is a violation of this subpart to obtain unused class I controlled substances under the general laboratory exemption in excess of actual need and to recycle that material for sale into other markets.
(e) Effective January 1, 1996, no person may place an order by conferring essential-use allowances for the production of the class I controlled substance, at any time in any control period, in excess of the amount of unexpended essential-use allowances, held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Effective January 1, 1996, no person may import a class I controlled substance with essential-use allowances, at any time in any control period, in excess of the amount of unexpended essential-use allowances, held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. No person may import or place an order for the production of a class I controlled substance with essential-use allowances, at any time in any control period, other than for the class I controlled substance(s) for which they received essential-use allowances under paragraph (u) of this section. Every kilogram of excess production ordered in excess of the unexpended essential-use allowances conferred to the producer constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. Every kilogram of excess import in excess of the unexpended essential-use allowances held at that time constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
(f) [Reserved]
(g) Effective January 1, 1996, the U.S. total production and importation of a class I controlled substance (except Group VI) as allocated under this section for essential-use allowances and exemptions, and as obtained under § 82.9 for destruction and transformation credits, may not, at any time, in any control period until January 1, 2000, exceed the percent limitation of baseline production in appendix H of this subpart, as set forth in the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. No person shall cause or contribute to the U.S. exceedance of the national limit for that control period.
(h) No person may sell in the U.S. any Class I controlled substance produced explicitly for export to an Article 5 country.
(i) Effective January 1, 1995, no person may import, at any time in any control period, a heel of any class I controlled substance that is greater than 10 percent of the volume of the container in excess of the amount of unexpended consumption allowances,
or unexpended destruction and transformation credits held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess importation constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
(j)(1) Effective January 1, 1995, no person may import, at any time in any control period, a used class I controlled substance, except for Group II used controlled substances shipped in aircraft halon bottles for hydrostatic testing, without having received a non-objection notice from the Administrator in accordance with § 82.13(g)(2) and (3). A person who receives a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of used controlled substances may not transfer or confer the right to import and may not import any more than the exact quantity, in kilograms, of the used controlled substance cited in the non-objection notice. Every kilogram of importation of used controlled substance in excess of the quantity cited in the non-objection notice issued by the Administrator in accordance with § 82.13(g)(2) and (3) constitutes a separate violation.
(2) No person may import for purposes of destruction, at any time in any control period, a class I controlled substance for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances, without having submitted a certification of intent to import for destruction to the Administrator and received a non-objection notice in accordance with § 82.13(g)(5). A person issued a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of class I controlled substances for destruction may not transfer or confer the right to import and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the class I controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. For imports intended to be destroyed in the United States, a person issued a non-objection notice must destroy the controlled substance within one year of the date stamped on the non-objection letter, may not transfer or confer the right to import, and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the class I controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. Every kilogram of import of class I controlled substance in excess of the quantity stated in the non-objection notice issued by the Administrator in accordance with § 82.13(g)(5) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
(k)(1) Prior to January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, a person may not use production allowances to produce a quantity of a class I controlled substance unless that person holds under the authority of this subpart at the same time consumption allowances sufficient to cover that quantity of class I controlled substances nor may a person use consumption allowances to produce a quantity of class I controlled substances unless the person holds under authority of this subpart at the same time production allowances sufficient to cover that quantity of class I controlled substances. However, prior to January 1, 1996, for all class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, only consumption allowances are required to import, with the exception of transhipments, heels, and used controlled substances. Effective January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, except Group VI, only essential use allowances or exemptions are required to import class I controlled substances, with the exception of transhipments, heels, used controlled substances, and essential use CFCs.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (k)(1) of this section, effective January 1, 2003, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, consumption allowances are not required to import quantities solely for quarantine or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart.
(l) Every kilogram of a controlled substance, and every controlled product, imported or exported in contravention of this subpart constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. No person may:
(1) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group I or Group II, in appendix A to this subpart from or to any foreign state not Party to the 1987 Montreal Protocol unless that foreign state is
complying with the 1987 Montreal Protocol (For ratification status, see:
http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php
);
(2) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group III, Group IV, or Group V, in appendix A to this subpart, from or to any foreign state not Party to the London Amendment, unless that foreign state is complying with the London Amendment (For ratification status, see:
http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php
); or
(3) Import a controlled product, as noted in appendix D, annex 1 to this subpart, from any foreign state not Party to the 1987 Montreal Protocol, unless that foreign state is complying with the 1987 Montreal Protocol (For ratification status, see:
http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php
).
(4) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group VII, in appendix A to this subpart, from or to any foreign state not Party to the Copenhagen Amendment, unless that foreign state is complying with the Copenhagen Amendment (For ratification status, see:
http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php
).
(5) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group VI, in appendix A to this subpart, from or to any foreign state not Party to the Copenhagen Amendment unless that foreign state is complying with the Copenhagen Amendment (For ratification status, see:
http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php
).
(6) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group VIII, in appendix A to this subpart, from or to any foreign state not Party to the Beijing Amendment, unless that foreign state is complying with the Beijing Amendment (For ratification status, see:
http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php
).
(m) Effective October 5, 1998, no person may export a controlled product to a Party listed in appendix J of this subpart in any control period after the control period in which EPA publishes a notice in the
Federal Register
listing that Party in appendix J of this subpart. EPA will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
that lists a Party in appendix J if the Party formally presents to the U.S. a government document through its embassy in the United States stating that it has established a ban on the import of controlled products and a ban on the manufacture of those same controlled products.
(n) No person may use class I controlled substances produced or imported under the essential use exemption for any purpose other than those set forth in this paragraph. Effective January 1, 1996, essential-use allowances are apportioned to a person under § 82.8(a) and (b) for the exempted production or importation of specified class I controlled substances solely for the purposes listed in paragraphs (n)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(1) Essential-uses for the production or importation of controlled substances as agreed to by the Parties to the Protocol and subject to the periodic revision of the Parties are:
(i) Metered dose inhalers (MDIs) for the treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease that were approved by the Food and Drug Administration before December 31, 2000.
(ii) Space Shuttle—solvents.
(iii) Essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined in appendix G of this subpart).
(2) Any person acquiring unused class I controlled substances produced or imported under the authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use exemption granted in § 82.8 to this subpart for use in anything other than an essential-use (
i.e.
, for uses other than those specifically listed in paragraph (n)(1) of this section) is in violation of this subpart. Each kilogram of unused class I controlled substance produced or imported under the authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use exemption and used for a non-essential use is a separate violation of this subpart. Any person selling unused class I controlled substances produced or imported under authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use
exemption for uses other than an essential-use is in violation of this subpart. Each kilogram of unused class I controlled substances produced or imported under authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use exemption and sold for a use other than an essential-use is a separate violation of this subpart. It is a violation of this subpart to obtain unused class I controlled substances under the exemption for laboratory and analytical uses in excess of actual need and to recycle that material for sale into other markets.
(o) [Reserved]
(p) Critical Use Exemption: With respect to class I, Group VI substances (methyl bromide):
(1) No person shall sell critical use methyl bromide without first receiving a certification from the purchaser that the quantity purchased will be sold or used solely for an approved critical use. Every kilogram of critical use methyl bromide sold without first obtaining such certification constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
(2) For approved critical users, each action associated with each 200 kilograms of critical use methyl bromide for the following subparagraphs constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
(i) No person shall take possession of quantities of critical use methyl bromide or acquire fumigation services using quantities of critical use methyl bromide without first completing the appropriate certification in accordance with the requirements in § 82.13.
(ii) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide may use such quantities for a use other than the specified critical use listed in column A and the specified location of use in column B of appendix L to this subpart.
(iii) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide produced or imported with expended critical use allowances for pre-plant uses, may use such quantities for other than the pre-plant uses as specified in column A and column B of appendix L to this subpart.
(iv) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide produced or imported with expended critical use allowances for post-harvest uses, may use such quantities for other than the post-harvest uses as specified in column A and column B of appendix L to this subpart.
(v) No person who uses critical use methyl bromide on a specific field or structure may concurrently or subsequently use non-critical use methyl bromide on the same field or structure for the same use (as defined in column A and column B of appendix L) in the same control period, excepting methyl bromide used under the quarantine and pre-shipment exemption.
(vi) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide during the control period shall use that methyl bromide on a field or structure for which that person has used non-critical use methyl bromide for the same use (as defined in columns A and B of appendix L) in the same control period, excepting methyl bromide used under the quarantine and pre-shipment exemption, unless, subsequent to that person's use of the non-critical use methyl bromide, that person becomes subject to a prohibition on the use of methyl bromide alternatives due to the reaching of a local township limit described in appendix L of this part, or becomes an approved critical user as a result of rulemaking.
(q) Emergency use exemption. [Reserved]
(r) No person may sell or use methyl bromide produced or imported under the quarantine and preshipment exemption for any purpose other than for quarantine applications or preshipment applications as defined in § 82.3. Each kilogram of methyl bromide produced or imported under the authority of the quarantine and preshipment exemption and sold or used for a use other than quarantine or preshipment is a separate violation of this subpart.
(s) No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, any class I substance that they know, or have reason to know, was imported in violation of this section, except for such actions needed to re-export the controlled substance. Every kilogram of a controlled substance imported in contravention of this paragraph (s) that is sold or distributed, or offered
for sale or distribution, constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 82.4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 82.5
Apportionment of baseline production allowances for class I controlled substances.
Persons who produced controlled substances in Group I or Group II in 1986 are apportioned baseline production allowances as set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Persons who produced controlled substances in Group III, IV, or V in 1989 are apportioned baseline production allowances as set forth in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section. Persons who produced controlled substances in Group VI and VII in 1991 are apportioned baseline allowances as set forth in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section.
Controlled substance
Person
Allowances
(kg)
(a) For Group I controlled substances:
CFC-11
Allied-Signal, Inc
23,082,358
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
33,830,000
Elf Atochem, N.A
21,821,500
CFC-12
Laroche Chemicals
12,856,364
Allied-Signal, Inc
35,699,776
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
64,849,000
Elf Atochem, N.A
31,089,807
CFC-113
Laroche Chemicals
15,330,909
Allied-Signal, Inc
21,788,896
CFC-114
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
58,553,000
Allied-Signal, Inc
1,488,569
CFC-115
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
4,194,000
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
4,176,000
(b) For Group II controlled substances:
Halon-1211
Great Lakes Chemical Corp
826,487
ICI Americas, Inc
2,135,484
Halon-1301
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
3,220,000
Great Lakes Chemical Corp
1,766,850
Halon-2402
(c) For Group III controlled substances:
CFC-13
Allied-Signal, Inc
127,125
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
187,831
Elf Atochem, N.A
3,992
Great Lakes Chemical Corp
56,381
Laroche Chemicals
29,025
CFC-111
CFC-112
CFC-211
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
11
CFC-212
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
11
CFC-213
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
11
CFC-214
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
11
CFC-215
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
511
Halocarbon Products Corp
1,270
CFC-216
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
170,574
CFC-217
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
511
(d) For Group IV controlled substances:
CCl
4
Akzo Chemicals, Inc
7,873,615
Degussa Corporation
26,546
Dow Chemical Company, USA
18,987,747
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
9,099
Hanlin Chemicals-WV, Inc
219,616
ICI Americas, Inc
853,714
Occidental Chemical Corp
1,059,358
Vulcan Chemicals
21,931,987
(e) For Group V controlled substances:
Methyl Chloroform
Dow Chemical Company, USA
168,030,117
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
2
PPG Industries, Inc
57,450,719
Vulcan Chemicals
89,689,064
(f) For Group VI controlled substances:
Methyl Bromide
Great Lakes Chemical Corporation
19,945,788
Ethyl Corporation
8,233,894
(g) For Group VII controlled substances:
HBFC 22B1-1
Great Lakes Chemical Corporation
46,211
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003]
§ 82.6
Apportionment of baseline consumption allowances for class I controlled substances.
Persons who produced, imported, or produced and imported controlled substances in Group I or Group II in 1986 are apportioned chemical-specific baseline consumption allowances as set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Persons who produced, imported, or produced and imported controlled substances in Group III, Group IV, or Group V in 1989 are apportioned chemical-specific baseline consumption allowances as set forth in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this section. Persons who produced, imported, or produced and imported controlled substances in Group VI or VII in 1991 are apportioned chemical specific baseline consumption allowances as set forth in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section.
Controlled substance
Person
Allowances
(kg)
(a) For Group I controlled substances:
CFC-11
Allied-Signal, Inc
22,683,833
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
32,054,283
Elf Atochem, N.A
21,740,194
Hoechst Celanese Corporation
185,396
ICI Americas, Inc
1,673,436
Kali-Chemie Corporation
82,500
Laroche Chemicals
12,695,726
National Refrigerants, Inc
693,707
Refricentro, Inc
160,697
Sumitomo Corporation of America
5,800
CFC-12
Allied-Signal, Inc
35,236,397
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
61,098,726
Elf Atochem, N.A
32,403,869
Hoechst Celanese Corporation
138,865
ICI Americas, Inc
1,264,980
Kali-Chemie Corporation
355,440
Laroche Chemicals
15,281,553
National Refrigerants, Inc
2,375,384
Refricentro, Inc
242,526
CFC-113
Allied-Signal, Inc
18,241,928
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
49,602,858
Elf Atochem, N.A
244,908
Holchem
265,199
ICI Americas, Inc
2,399,700
Refricentro, Inc
37,385
Sumitomo Corp. of America
280,163
CFC-114
Allied-Signal, Inc
1,429,582
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
3,686,103
Elf Atochem, N.A
22,880
ICI Americas, Inc
32,930
CFC-115
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
2,764,109
Elf Atochem, N.A
633,007
Hoechst Celanese Corporation
8,893
ICI Americas, Inc
2,366,351
Laroche Chemicals
135,520
Refricentro, Inc
27,337
(b) For Group II controlled substances:
Halon-1211
Elf Atochem, N.A
411,292
Great Lakes Chemical Corp
772,775
ICI Americas, Inc
2,116,641
Kali-Chemie Corporation
330,000
Halon-1301
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
2,772,917
Elf Atochem, N.A
89,255
Great Lakes Chemical Corp
1,744,132
Kali-Chemie Corporation
54,380
Halon-2402
Ausimont
34,400
Great Lakes Chemical Corp
15,900
(c) For Group III controlled substances:
CFC-13
Allied-Signal, Inc
127,124
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
158,508
Elf Atochem, N.A
3,992
Great Lakes Chemical Corp
56,239
ICI Americas, Inc
5,855
Laroche Chemicals
29,025
National Refrigerants, Inc
16,665
CFC-111
CFC-112
Sumitomo Corp of America
5,912
TG (USA) Corporation
9,253
CFC-211
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
11
CFC-212
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
11
CFC-213
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
11
CFC-214
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
11
CFC-215
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
511
Halocarbon Products Corp
1,270
CFC-216
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
170,574
CFC-217
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
511
(d) For Group IV controlled substances:
CCl
4
Crescent Chemical Co
56
Degussa Corporation
12,466
Dow Chemical Company, USA
8,170,561
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
26,537
Elf Atochem, N.A
41
Hanlin Chemicals-WV, Inc
103,133
Hoechst Celanese Corporation
3
ICC Chemical Corp
1,173,723
ICI Americas, Inc
855,466
Occidental Chemical Corp
497,478
Sumitomo Corporation of America
9
(e) For Group V controlled substances:
Methyl Chloroform
3V Chemical Corp
3,528
Actex, Inc
50,171
Atochem North America
74,355
Dow Chemical Company, USA
125,200,200
E.I. DuPont de Nemours
Co
2
IBM
2,026
ICI Americas, Inc
14,179,850
Laidlaw
420,207
PPG Industries
45,254,115
Sumitomo
1,954
TG (USA) Corporation
7,073
Unitor Ships Service, Inc
14,746
Vulcan Chemicals
70,765,072
(f) For Group VI controlled substances:
Methyl Bromide
Great Lakes Chemical Corporation
15,514,746
Ethyl Corporation
6,379,906
AmeriBrom, Inc
3,524,393
TriCal, Inc
109,225
(g) For Group VII controlled substances:
HBFC 22B1-1
Great Lakes Chemical Corporation
40,110
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003]
§ 82.7
Grant and phase reduction of baseline production and consumption allowances for class I controlled substances.
For each control period specified in the following table, each person is granted the specified percentage of the baseline production and consumption allowances apportioned to him under §§ 82.5 and 82.6 of this subpart.
Control period
Class I substances in groups I and III,
(In percent)
Class I substances in group II,
(In percent)
Class I substances in group IV
(In percent)
Class I substances in group V
(In percent)
Class I substances in group VI
(In percent)
Class I substances in group VII
(In percent)
1994
25
0
50
50
100
100
1995
25
0
15
30
100
100
1996
0
0
0
0
100
0
1997
0
0
0
0
100
0
1998
0
0
0
0
100
0
1999
0
0
0
0
75
0
2000
0
0
0
0
75
0
2001
50
2002
50
2003
30
2004
30
2005
0
[65 FR 70803, Nov. 28, 2000]
§ 82.8
Grant of essential use allowances and critical use allowances.
(a) Effective January 1, 1996, persons in the following list are allocated essential-use allowances or exemptions for quantities of a specific class I controlled substance for a specific essential-use (the Administrator reserves the right to revise the allocations based on future decisions of the Parties).
Table I—Essential Use Allowances for Calendar Year 2010
(i) Metered Dose Inhalers (for oral inhalation) for Treatment of Asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Company
Chemical
2010 Quantity
(metric tons)
Armstrong
CFC-11 or CFC-12 or CFC-114.
30.0
(b) There is a global exemption for the production and import of class I controlled substances for essential laboratory and analytical uses, subject to the restrictions in appendix G of this subpart, and subject to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements at § 82.13(u) through (x). There is no amount specified for this exemption.
(c) Effective January 1, 2005, critical use allowances are apportioned as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for the exempted production and import of class I, Group VI controlled substances specifically for those approved critical uses listed in appendix L to this subpart for the applicable control period. Every kilogram of production and import in excess of the total number and type of unexpended
critical use allowances held for a particular type of use constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
(1) Allocated critical use allowances granted for specified control period.
Company
2016 Critical use allowances for pre-plant uses *
(kilograms)
2016 Critical use allowances for post-harvest uses *
(kilograms)
Great Lakes Chemical Corp. A Chemtura Company
84,222
1,179
Albemarle Corp.
34,634
485
ICL-IP America
19,140
268
TriCal, Inc.
596
8
Total
138,592
1,939
* For production or import of Class I, Group VI controlled substance exclusively for the pre-plant or post-harvest uses specified in appendix L to this subpart.
(2) [Reserved]
[69 FR 77003, Dec. 23, 2004]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 82.8, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 82.9
Availability of production allowances in addition to baseline production allowances for class I controlled substances.
(a)—(b) [Reserved]
(c) A company may increase or decrease its production allowances, including its Article 5 allowances, by trading with another Party to the Protocol according to the provision under this paragraph (c). A company may increase or decrease its essential-use allowances for CFCs for use in essential MDIs according to the provisions under this paragraph (c). A nation listed in appendix C to this subpart (Parties to the Montreal Protocol) must agree either to transfer to the person for the current control period some amount of production or import that the nation is permitted under the Montreal Protocol or to receive from the person for the current control period some amount of production or import that the person is permitted under this subpart. If the controlled substance is produced under the authority of production allowances and is to be sold in the United States or to another Party (not the Party from whom the allowances are received), the U.S. company must expend its consumption allowances allocated under §§ 82.6 and 82.7 in order to produce with the additional production allowances.
(1) For trades from a Party, the person must obtain from the principal diplomatic representative in that nation's embassy in the United States a signed document stating that the appropriate authority within that nation has established or revised production limits or essential-use allowance limits for the nation to equal the lesser of the maximum production that the nation is allowed under the Protocol minus the amount transferred, the maximum production or essential-use allowances that are allowed under the nation's applicable domestic law minus the amount transferred, or the average of the nation's actual national production level for the three years prior to the transfer minus the production transferred. The person must submit to the Administrator a transfer request that includes a true copy of this document and that sets forth the following:
(i) The identity and address of the person;
(ii) The identity of the Party;
(iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the person and for the Party;
(iv) The chemical type, type of allowance being transferred, and the level of allowances being transferred;
(v) The control period(s) to which the transfer applies; and
(vi) For increased production intended for export to the Party from whom the allowances would be received, a signed statement of intent to export to the Party.
(vii) In the case of transferring essential-use allowances, the transferor must include a signed document from the transferee identifying the CFC MDI
products that will be produced using the essential-use allowances.
(2) For trades to a Party, a person must submit a transfer request that sets forth the following:
(i) The identity and address of the person;
(ii) The identity of the Party;
(iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the person and for the Party;
(iv) The chemical type, type of allowance being transferred, and the level of allowances being transferred; and
(v) The control period(s) to which the transfer applies.
(3) After receiving a transfer request that meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the Administrator may, at his discretion, consider the following factors in deciding whether to approve such a transfer:
(i) Possible creation of economic hardship;
(ii) Possible effects on trade;
(iii) Potential environmental implications; and
(iv) The total amount of unexpended production or essential-use allowances held by a U.S. entity.
(v) In the case of transfer of essential-use allowances the Administrator may consider whether the CFCs will be used for production of essential MDIs.
(4) The Administrator will issue the person a notice either granting or deducting production allowances, Article 5 allowances, or essential-use allowances, and specifying the control period to which the transfer applies, provided that the request meets the requirement of paragraph (c)(1) of this sections for trades from Parties and paragraph (c)(2) of this section for trades to Parties, unless the Administrator has decided to disapprove the trade under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. For a trade from a Party, the Administrator will issue a notice that revises the allowances held by the person to equal the unexpended production, Article 5, or essential-use allowances held by the person under this subpart plus the level of allowable production transferred from the Party. For a trade to a Party, the Administrator will issue a notice that revises the production limit for the person to equal the lesser of:
(i) The unexpended production allowances, essential-use allowances, or Article 5 allowances held by the person under this subpart minus the amount transferred; or
(ii) The unexpended production allowances, essential-use allowances, or Article 5 allowances held by the person under this subpart minus the amount by which the United States average annual production of the controlled substance being traded for the three years prior to the transfer is less than the total production allowable for that substance under this subpart minus the amount transferred. The change in allowances will be effective on the date that the notice is issued.
(5) If after one person obtains approval for a trade of allowable production of a controlled substance to a Party, one or more other persons obtain approval for trades involving the same controlled substance and the same control period, the Administrator will issue notices revising the production limits for each of the other persons trading that controlled substance in that control period to equal the lesser of:
(i) The unexpended production allowances or Article 5 allowances held by the person under this subpart minus the amount transferred; or
(ii) The unexpended production allowances or Article 5 allowances held by the person under this subpart minus the amount by which the United States average annual production of the controlled substance being traded for the three years prior to the transfer is less than the total allowable production for that substance under this subpart multiplied by the amount transferred divided by the total amount transferred by all the other persons trading the same controlled substance in the same control period minus the amount transferred by that person.
(iii) The Administrator will also issue a notice revising the production limit for each person who previously obtained approval of a trade of that substance in that control period to equal the unexpended production allowances or unexpended Article 5 allowances held by the person under this subpart plus the amount by which the
United States average annual production of the controlled substance being traded for the three years prior to the transfer is less than the total allowable production under this subpart multiplied by the amount transferred by that person divided by the amount transferred by all of the persons who have traded that controlled substance in that control period. The change in production allowances or Article 5 allowances will be effective on the date that the notice is issued.
(d) Effective January 1, 1996, there will be no trade in production or consumption allowances with other Parties to the Protocol for class I controlled substances, except for class I, Group VI, methyl bromide.
(e)—(f) [Reserved]
(g)
International transfer of essential-use CFCs.
(1) For trades of essential-use CFCs where the transferee or the transferor is a person in another nation (Party), the persons involved in the transfer must submit the information requested in § 82.12(d)(2) and (d)(3), along with a signed document from the principal diplomatic representative in the Party's embassy in the United States stating that the appropriate authority within that nation has approved the transfer of the essential-use CFCs.
(2) If the transfer claim is complete, and EPA does not object to the transfer, then EPA will issue letters to the transferor and the transferee indicating that the transfer may proceed. EPA reserves the right to disallow a transfer if the transfer request is incomplete, or if it has reason to believe that the transferee plans to produce MDIs that are not essential MDIs. If EPA objects to the transfer, EPA will issue letters to the transferor and transferee stating the basis for disallowing the transfer. The burden of proof is placed on the transferee to retain sufficient records to prove that the transferred essential-use CFCs are used only for production of essential MDIs. If EPA ultimately finds that the transferee did not use the essential-use CFCs for production of essential MDIs then the transferee is in violation of this subpart.
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 41643, Aug. 4, 1998; 63 FR 53290, Oct. 5, 1998; 65 FR 70804, Nov. 28, 2000; 67 FR 6360, Feb. 11, 2002; 67 FR 21134, Apr. 29, 2002; 70 FR 77047, Dec. 29, 2005; 85 FR 15292, Mar. 17, 2020]
§ 82.10
[Reserved]
§ 82.11
Exports of class I controlled substances to Article 5 Parties.
(a) If apportioned Article 5 allowances under § 82.9(a) or § 82.11(a)(2), a person may produce Class I controlled substances, in accordance with the prohibitions in § 82.4 and the reduction schedule in § 82.11(a)(3), to be exported (not including exports resulting in transformation or destruction, or exports of used controlled substances) to foreign states listed in appendix E to this subpart (Article 5 countries).
(1) A person must submit a notice to the Administrator of exports to Article 5 countries (except exports resulting in transformation or destruction, or used controlled substances) at the end of the quarter that includes the following:
(i) The identities and addresses of the exporter and the Article 5 country recipient of the exports;
(ii) The exporter's Employee Identification Number;
(iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the exporter and for the recipient;
(iv) The quantity and the type of controlled substances exported, its source and date purchased;
(v) The date on which, and the port from which, the controlled substances were exported from the United States or its territories;
(vi) The Article 5 country to which the controlled substances were exported;
(vii) A copy of the bill of lading and invoice indicating the net quantity shipped and documenting the sale of the controlled substances to the Article 5 purchaser;
(viii) The commodity code of the controlled substance exported; and
(ix) A copy of the invoice or sales agreement covering the sale of the controlled substances to the recipient Article 5 country that contains provisions
forbidding the reexport of the controlled substance in bulk form and subjecting the recipient or any transferee of the recipient to liquidated damages equal to the resale price of the controlled substances if they are reexported in bulk form.
(2) Persons who reported exports of Class I, Group I controlled substances to Article 5 countries in 2000-2003 are apportioned baseline Article 5 allowances as set forth in § 82.11(a)(2)(i). Persons who reported exports of Class I, Group VI controlled substances to Article 5 countries in 1995-1998 are apportioned baseline Article 5 allowances as set forth in § 82.11(a)(2)(ii)).
(i) For Group I Controlled Substances
Controlled Substance
Person
Allowances (kg)
CFC-11
Honeywell
7,150
Sigma Aldrich
1
CFC-113
Fisher Scientific
5
Honeywell
313,686
Sigma Aldrich
48
CFC-114
Honeywell
24,798
Sigma Aldrich
1
(ii) For Group VI Controlled Substances
Controlled Substance
Person
Allowances (kg)
Methyl Bromide
Albemarle
1,152,714
Ameribrom
176,903
Great Lakes Chemical Corporation
3,825,846
(3) Phased Reduction Schedule for Article 5 Allowances allocated in § 82.11. For each control period specified in the following table, each person is granted the specified percentage of the baseline Article 5 allowances apportioned under § 82.11.
Control Period
Class I substances in group I
(In
percent)
Class I substances in group VI
(In
percent)
2006
50
80
2007
15
80
2008
15
80
2009
15
80
2010
0
80
2011
0
80
2012
0
80
2013
0
80
2014
0
80
2015
0
0
(2) [Reserved]
(b) [Reserved]
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 70 FR 77047, Dec. 29, 2005]
§ 82.12
Transfers of allowances for class I controlled substances.
(a)
Inter-company transfers.
(1) After January 1, 2002, any essential-use allowance holder (including those persons that hold essential-use allowances issued by a Party other than the United States) (“transferor”) may transfer essential-use allowances for CFCs to a metered dose inhaler company solely for the manufacture of essential MDIs. After January 1, 2005, any critical use allowance holder (“transferor”) may transfer critical use allowances to any other person (“transferee”).
(i) The transferor must submit to the Administrator a transfer claim setting forth the following:
(A) The identities and addresses of the transferor and the transferee;
(B) The name and telephone numbers of contact persons for the transferor and the transferee;
(C) The type of allowances being transferred, including the names of the controlled substances for which allowances are to be transferred;
(D) The group of controlled substances to which the allowances being transferred pertains;
(E) The amount of allowances being transferred;
(F) The control period(s) for which the allowances are being transferred;
(G) The amount of unexpended allowances of the type and for the control period being transferred that the transferor holds under authority of this subpart as of the date the claim is submitted to EPA; and
(H) The one percent offset applied to the unweighted amount traded will be deducted from the transferor's production or consumption allowance balance (except for trades from transformers and destroyers to producers or importers for the purpose of allowance reimbursement). In the case of transferring essential use allowances, the amount of one tenth of one percent of the amount traded will be deducted from the transferor's allowance balance. In the case of transferring critical use allowances, the amount of one tenth of one percent
of the amount traded will be deducted from the transferor's critical use allowance balance.
(I) The transferor must include a signed document from the transferee identifying the CFC MDI products that will be produced using the essential-use allowances.
(ii) The Administrator will determine whether the records maintained by EPA, taking into account any previous transfers and any production, allowable imports and exports of controlled substances reported by the transferor, indicate that the transferor possesses, as of the date the transfer claim is processed, unexpended allowances sufficient to cover the transfer claim (
i.e.,
the amount to be transferred plus, in the case of transferors of essential use allowances and critical use allowances, one tenth of one percent of the transferred amount). Within three working days of receiving a complete transfer claim, the Administrator will take action to notify the transferor and transferee as follows:
(A) If EPA's records show that the transferor has sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim, the Administrator will issue a notice indicating that EPA does not object to the transfer and will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the amount to be transferred plus, in the case of transfers of production or consumption allowances, one percent of that amount, or in the case of transfers of essential use allowances, one tenth of one percent of that amount. When EPA issues a no objection notice, the transferor and the transferee may proceed with the transfer. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and transferee will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.
(B) If EPA's records show that the transferor has insufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim, or that the transferor has failed to respond to one or more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a determination, the Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the transfer. Within 10 working days after receipt of notification, either party may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the Administrator. The Administrator may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that day.
(iii) In the event that the Administrator does not respond to a transfer claim within the three working days specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section the transferor and transferee may proceed with the transfer. EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the amount to be transferred plus, in the case of transfers of production or consumption allowances, one percent of that amount, and in the case of essential use allowances and critical use allowances, one tenth of one percent of that amount. However if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and transferee will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.
(2) [Reserved]
(b)—(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Transfers of essential-use CFCs.
(1) Effective January 1, 2002, any metered dose inhaler company (transferor) may transfer essential-use CFCs to another metered dose inhaler company (transferee) provided that the Administrator approves the transfer.
(2) The transferee must submit a transfer claim to the Administrator for approval before the transfer can take place. The transfer claim must set forth the following:
(i) The identities and addresses of the transferor and the transferee; and
(ii) The name and telephone numbers of contact persons for the transferor and the transferee; and
(iii) The amount of each controlled substance (CFC-11, CFC-12, or CFC-114) being transferred; and
(iv) The specific metered dose inhaler products (i.e. the MDI drug product or active moiety) that the transferee plans to produce with the transferred CFCs; and
(v) The country(ies) where the CFC metered dose inhalers produced with the transferred essential-use CFCs will be sold if other than in the United States; and
(vi) Certification that the essential-use CFCs will be used in the production of essential MDIs. If the MDIs are to be sold in the United States, the certification must state that MDIs produced with the transferred essential-use CFCs are listed as essential at 21 CFR 2.125, and were approved by the Food and Drug Administration before December 31, 2000. If the MDIs produced with the essential-use CFCs are to be sold outside the United States, the transferee must certify that the metered dose inhalers produced with the essential-use CFCs are considered essential by the importing country.
(3) The transferor must submit a letter stating that it concurs with the terms of the transfer as requested by the transferee.
(4) Once the transfer claim is complete, and if EPA does not object to the transfer, then EPA will issue letters to the transferor and the transferee within 10 business days indicating that the transfer may proceed. EPA reserves the right to disallow a transfer if the transfer request is incomplete, or if it has reason to believe that the transferee plans use the essential-use CFCs in anything other than essential MDIs. If EPA objects to the transfer, within EPA will issue letters to the transferor and transferee stating the basis for disallowing the transfer. The burden of proof is placed on the transferee to retain sufficient records to prove that the transferred essential-use CFCs are used only for production of essential MDIs. If EPA ultimately finds that the transferee did not use the essential-use CFCs for production of essential MDIs then the transferee is in violation of this subpart.
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 70804, Nov. 28, 2000; 66 FR 1471, Jan. 8, 2001; 67 FR 6361, Feb. 11, 2002; 69 FR 77004, Dec. 23, 2004; 79 FR 44311, July 31, 2014; 85 FR 15292, Mar. 17, 2020]
§ 82.13
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements for class I controlled substances.
(a)
Effective dates.
Unless otherwise specified, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements set forth in this section take effect on January 1, 1995. For class I, Group VIII controlled substances, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements set forth in this section take effect on August 18, 2003. For critical use methyl bromide, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements set forth in this section take effect January 1, 2005.
(b) Reports and records required by this section may be used for purposes of compliance determinations. These requirements are not intended as a limitation on the use of other evidence admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence. Failure to provide the reports, petitions and records required by this section, and to certify the accuracy of the information in the reports, petitions and records required by this section, will be considered a violation of this subpart. False statements made in reports, petitions and records will be considered violations of Section 113 of the Clean Air Act.
(c)
Timing of reports.
Unless otherwise specified, reports required by this section must be submitted to the Administrator within 45 days of the end of the applicable reporting period. Revisions of reports that are required by this section must be submitted to the Administrator within 180 days of the end of the applicable reporting period, unless otherwise specified. Starting May 18, 2020, reports that are available for submission through the Central Data Exchange or another format specified by EPA must be submitted electronically through that tool.
(d) Records and copies of reports required by this section must be retained for three years.
(e) In reports required by this section, quantities of controlled substances must be stated in terms of kilograms.
(f)
Producers.
Every person (“producer”) who produces class I controlled substances during a control period must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:
(1) Within 120 days of May 10, 1995, or within 120 days of the date that a producer first produces a class I controlled substance, whichever is later, and within 120 days of July 18, 2003 for class I, Group VIII controlled substances, every producer who has not already done so must submit to the Administrator a report describing:
(i) The method by which the producer in practice measures daily quantities of controlled substances produced;
(ii) Conversion factors by which the daily records as currently maintained can be converted into kilograms of controlled substances produced, including any constants or assumptions used in making those calculations (e.g., tank specifications, ambient temperature or pressure, density of the controlled substance);
(iii) Internal accounting procedures for determining plant-wide production;
(iv) The quantity of any fugitive losses accounted for in the production figures; and
(v) The estimated percent efficiency of the production process for the controlled substance. Within 60 days of any change in the measurement procedures or the information specified in the above report, the producer must submit a report specifying the revised data or procedures to the Administrator.
(2)
Recordkeeping requirements
Every producer of a class I controlled substance during a control period must maintain the following records:
(i) Dated records of the quantity of each controlled substance produced at each facility;
(ii) Dated records of the quantity of controlled substances produced for use in processes that result in their transformation or for use in processes that result in their destruction and quantity sold for use in processes that result in their transformation or for use in processes that result in their destruction;
(iii) Dated records of the quantity of controlled substances produced for an essential-use and quantity sold for use in an essential-use process;
(iv)—(v) [Reserved]
(vi) Copies of invoices or receipts documenting sale of controlled substance for use in processes resulting in their transformation or for use in processes resulting in destruction;
(vii) Dated records of the quantity of each controlled substance used at each facility as feedstocks or destroyed in the manufacture of a controlled substance or in the manufacture of any other substance, and any controlled substance introduced into the production process of the same controlled substance at each facility;
(viii) Dated records identifying the quantity of each chemical not a controlled substance produced within each facility also producing one or more controlled substances;
(ix) Dated records of the quantity of raw materials and feedstock chemicals used at each facility for the production of controlled substances;
(x) Dated records of the shipments of each controlled substance produced at each plant;
(xi) The quantity of controlled substances, the date received, and names and addresses of the source of used materials containing controlled substances which are recycled or reclaimed at each plant;
(xii) Records of the date, the controlled substance, and the estimated quantity of any spill or release of a controlled substance that equals or exceeds 100 pounds;
(xiii) Internal Revenue Service Certificates in the case of transformation, or the destruction verification in the case of destruction (as in § 82.13(k)), showing that the purchaser or recipient of a controlled substance, in the United States or in another country that is a Party, certifies the intent to either transform or destroy the controlled substance, or sell the controlled substance for transformation or destruction in cases when production and consumption allowances were not expended;
(xiv) Written verifications that essential-use allowances were conveyed to the producer for the production of specified quantities of a specific controlled substance that will only be used for the named essential-use and not resold or used in any other manufacturing process;
(xv) Written certifications that quantities of controlled substances, meeting the purity criteria in appendix G of
this subpart, were purchased by distributors of laboratory supplies or by laboratory customers to be used only in essential laboratory and analytical uses as defined by appendix G, and not to be resold or used in manufacturing;
(xvi) [Reserved]
(xvii) For methyl bromide, dated records of the quantity of controlled substances produced for quarantine and preshipment applications and quantity sold for quarantine and preshipment applications;
(xviii) Written certifications that quantities of methyl bromide produced solely for quarantine and preshipment applications were purchased by distributors or applicators to be used only for quarantine applications and preshipment applications in accordance with the definitions in this subpart; and
(xix) Written verifications from a U.S. purchaser that methyl bromide produced solely for quarantine and preshipment applications, if exported, will be exported solely for quarantine applications and preshipment applications upon receipt of a certification in accordance with the definitions of this subpart and requirements in paragraph (h) of this section.
(xx) For methyl bromide, dated records such as invoices and order forms, and a log of the quantity of controlled substances produced for critical use, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, and the quantity sold for critical use, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use;
(xxi) Written certifications that quantities of methyl bromide produced for critical use were purchased by distributors, applicators, or approved critical users to be used or sold only for critical use in accordance with the definitions and prohibitions in this subpart. Certifications must be maintained by the producer for a minimum of three years; and
(xxii) For methyl bromide, dated records such as invoices and order forms, and a log of the quantity of controlled substances produced solely for export to satisfy critical uses authorized by the Parties for that control period, and the quantity sold solely for export to satisfy critical uses authorized by the Parties for that control period.
(3)
Reporting requirements—producers.
For each quarter, except as specified below, each producer of a class I controlled substance must provide the Administrator with a report containing the following information:
(i) The production by company in that quarter of each controlled substance, specifying the quantity of any controlled substance used in processing, resulting in its transformation by the producer;
(ii) The amount of production for use in processes resulting in destruction of controlled substances by the producer;
(iii) The levels of production (expended allowances and credits) for each controlled substance;
(iv) [Reserved]
(v) The amount of controlled substance sold or transferred during the quarter to a person other than the producer for use in processes resulting in its transformation or eventual destruction;
(vi) A list of the quantities and names of controlled substances exported, by the producer and or by other U.S. companies, to a Party to the Protocol that will be transformed or destroyed and therefore were not produced expending production or consumption allowances;
(vii) For transformation in the United States or by a person of another Party, one copy of an IRS certification of intent to transform the same controlled substance for a particular transformer and a list of additional quantities shipped to that same transformer for the quarter;
(viii) For destruction in the United States or by a person of another Party, one copy of a destruction verification (as under § 82.13(k)) for a particular destroyer, destroying the same controlled substance, and a list of additional quantities shipped to that same destroyer for the quarter;
(ix) [Reserved]
(x) A list of the essential-use allowance holders, distributors of laboratory supplies and laboratory customers from whom orders were placed and the
quantity of specific essential-use controlled substances requested and produced;
(xi) The certifications from essential-use allowance holders stating that the controlled substances were purchased solely for specified essential uses and will not be resold or used in any other manufacturing process;
(xii) In the case of laboratory essential-uses, certifications from distributors of laboratory supplies that controlled substances were purchased for sale to laboratory customers who certify that the substances will only be used for essential laboratory and analytical uses as defined by appendix G of this subpart, and will not be resold or used in manufacturing; or, if sales are made directly to laboratories, certification from laboratories that the controlled substances will only be used for essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined at appendix G of this subpart) and will not be resold or used in manufacturing.
(xiii) The amount of methyl bromide sold or transferred during the quarter to a person other than the producer solely for quarantine and preshipment applications;
(xiv) A list of the quantities of methyl bromide produced by the producer and exported by the producer and/or by other U.S. companies, to a Party to the Protocol that will be used solely for quarantine and preshipment applications and therefore were not produced expending production or consumption allowances; and
(xv) For quarantine and preshipment applications of methyl bromide in the United States or by a person of another Party, one copy of a certification that the material will be used only for quarantine and preshipment applications in accordance with the definitions in this subpart from each recipient of the material and a list of additional quantities shipped to that same person for the quarter.
(xvi) For critical uses of methyl bromide, producers shall report annually the amount of critical use methyl bromide owned by the reporting entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use along with the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held; and
(xvii) A list of the quantities of methyl bromide produced by the producer and exported by the producer and/or by other U.S. companies in that control period, solely to satisfy the critical uses authorized by the Parties for that control period; and
(xviii) On an annual basis, the amount of methyl bromide produced or imported prior to the January 1, 2005, phaseout date owned by the reporting entity, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held.
(4) For any person who fails to maintain the records required by this paragraph, or to submit the report required by this paragraph, the Administrator may assume that the person has produced at full capacity during the period for which records were not kept, for purposes of determining whether the person has violated the prohibitions at § 82.4.
(g)
Importers.
Importers of class I controlled substances during a control period must comply with record-keeping and reporting requirements specified in this paragraph (g).
(1)
Recordkeeping—importers.
Any importer of a class I controlled substance (including used, recycled and reclaimed controlled substances) must maintain the following records:
(i) The quantity of each controlled substance imported, either alone or in mixtures, including the percentage of each mixture which consists of a controlled substance;
(ii) The quantity of those controlled substances imported that are used (including recycled or reclaimed) and, where applicable, the information provided with the petition as under paragraph (g)(2) of this section;
(iii) The quantity of controlled substances other than transhipments or used, recycled or reclaimed substances imported for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction and quantity sold for use in processes
that result in their destruction or transformation;
(iv) The date on which the controlled substances were imported;
(v) The port of entry through which the controlled substances passed;
(vi) The country from which the imported controlled substances were imported;
(vii) The commodity code for the controlled substances shipped, which must be one of those listed in Appendix K to this subpart;
(viii) The importer number for the shipment;
(ix) A copy of the bill of lading for the import;
(x) The invoice for the import;
(xi) The quantity of imports of used, recycled, or reclaimed class I controlled substances;
(xii) The U.S. Customs entry number;
(xiii) Dated records documenting the sale or transfer of controlled substances for use in processes resulting in transformation or destruction;
(xiv) Copies of IRS certifications that the controlled substance will be transformed or destruction verifications that it will be destroyed (as in § 82.13(k));
(xv) Dated records of the quantity of controlled substances imported for an essential use; and
(xvi) Copies of certifications that imported controlled substances are being purchased for essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined at appendix G of this subpart) or being purchased for eventual sale to laboratories that certify that controlled substances are for essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined at appendix G of this subpart).
(xvii) Dated records of the quantity of methyl bromide imported for quarantine and preshipment applications and quantity sold for quarantine and preshipment applications;
(xviii) Written certifications that quantities of methyl bromide imported solely for quarantine and preshipment applications were purchased by distributors or applicators to be used only for quarantine and preshipment applications in accordance with the definitions in this subpart; and
(xix) Written verifications from a U.S. purchaser that methyl bromide imported solely for quarantine and preshipment applications, if exported, will be exported solely for quarantine and preshipment applications upon receipt of a certification in accordance with the definitions of this subpart and requirements in paragraph (h) of this section.
(xx) For methyl bromide, dated records such as invoices and order forms, of the quantity of controlled substances imported for critical use, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, and the quantity sold for critical use, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use; and
(xxi) Written certifications that quantities of methyl bromide imported for critical use were purchased by distributors, applicators, or approved critical users to be used or sold only for critical use in accordance with the definitions and prohibitions in this subpart. Certifications must be maintained by an importer for a minimum of three years.
(2)
Petitioning—importers of used, recycled, or reclaimed controlled substances.
For each individual shipment over 5 pounds of a used controlled substance as defined in § 82.3, except for Group II used controlled substances shipped in aircraft halon bottles for hydrostatic testing and imports intended for destruction, an importer must submit directly to the Administrator, at least 40 working days before the shipment is to leave the foreign port of export, the following information in a petition:
(i) Name, commodity code, and quantity in kilograms of the used controlled substance to be imported;
(ii) Name and address of the importer, the importer ID number, and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;
(iii) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of all previous source facilities from which the used controlled substance was recovered or the halon bank storing the controlled substance;
(iv) A detailed description of the previous use of the controlled substance at each source facility and a best estimate of when the specific controlled
substance was put into the equipment at each source facility, and, when possible, documents indicating the date the material was put into the equipment;
(v) A list of the name, make and model number of the equipment from which the material was recovered at each source facility;
(vi) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the exporter and of all persons to whom the material was transferred or sold after it was recovered from the source facility;
(vii) The U.S. port of entry for the import, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the chemical. If at the time of submitting a petition the importer does not know the U.S. port of entry, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the chemical, and the importer receives a non-objection notice for the individual shipment in the petition, the importer is required to notify the Administrator of this information prior to the actual U.S. Customs entry of the individual shipment;
(viii) A description of the intended use of the used controlled substance, and, when possible, the name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the ultimate purchaser in the United States;
(ix) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the U.S. reclamation facility, where applicable;
(x) If someone at the source facility recovered the controlled substance from the equipment, the name, email address, and phone number of that person;
(xi) If the imported controlled substance was reclaimed in a foreign Party, the name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of any or all foreign reclamation facility(ies) responsible for reclaiming the cited shipment;
(xii) The export license, application for an export license, or official communication acknowledging the export from the appropriate government agency in the country of export and, if recovered in another country, the export license or official communication from the appropriate government agency in that country, and quantity authorized for export in kilograms on the export license, and an English translation of these documents;
(xiii) If the imported used controlled substance is intended to be sold as a refrigerant in the United States, the name, address, and email address of the EPA-certified U.S. reclaimer who will bring the material to the standard required under subpart F of this part if not already reclaimed to those specifications; and
(xiv) [Reserved]
(xv) If the used controlled substance is stored in a halon bank, in lieu of the information required in paragraphs (g)(2)(iv) through (vi) of this section, the petitioner may provide an official letter from the appropriate government agency in the country where the material is stored indicating that the halon is used and that the halon bank is authorized to collect used halon. If source information in paragraphs (g)(2)(iv) through (vi) is available, it should also be provided in addition to the letter.
(3)
Review of petition to import a used substance.
Starting on the first working day following receipt by the Administrator of a petition to import a used class I controlled substance, the Administrator will initiate a review of the information submitted under paragraph (g)(2) of this section and take action within 40 working days to issue either an objection-notice or a non-objection notice for the individual shipment to the person who submitted the petition to import the used class I controlled substance.
(i) For the following reasons, the Administrator may issue an objection notice to a petition:
(A) If the Administrator determines that the information is insufficient, that is, if the petition lacks or appears to lack any of the information required under paragraph (g)(2) of this section or other information that may be requested during the review of the petition necessary to verify that the controlled substance is used;
(B) If the Administrator determines that any portion of the petition contains false or misleading information, or the Administrator has information from other U.S. or foreign government
agencies indicating that the petition contains false or misleading information;
(C) If the importer wishes to import a used class I controlled substance from a country which is, for that particular controlled substance, out of compliance regarding its phaseout obligations under the Protocol or the transaction in the petition is contrary to other provisions in the Vienna Convention or the Montreal Protocol;
(D) If the appropriate government agency in the exporting country has not agreed to issue an export license for the cited individual shipment of used controlled substance;
(E) If allowing the import of the used class I controlled substance would run counter to government restrictions from either the country of recovery or export regarding controlled ozone-depleting substances;
(F) If reclamation capacity is installed or is being installed for that specific controlled substance in the country of recovery or country of export and the capacity is funded in full or in part through the Multilateral Fund.
(ii) Within ten (10) working days after receipt of the objection notice, the importer may re-petition the Administrator, only if the Administrator indicated “insufficient information” as the basis for the objection notice. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after the date on the objection notice, the objection shall become final. Only one appeal of re-petition will be accepted for any petition received by EPA.
(iii) Any information contained in the re-petition which is inconsistent with the original petition must be identified and a description of the reason for the inconsistency must accompany the re-petition.
(iv) In cases where the Administrator does not object to the petition based on the criteria listed in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section, the Administrator will issue a non-objection notice.
(v) To pass the approved used class I controlled substances through U.S. Customs, the non-objection notice issued by EPA must accompany the shipment through U.S. Customs.
(vi) If for some reason, following EPA's issuance of a non-objection notice, new information is brought to EPA's attention which shows that the non-objection notice was issued based on false information, then EPA has the right to:
(A) Revoke the non-objection notice;
(B) Pursue all means to ensure that the controlled substance is not imported into the United States; and
(C) Take appropriate enforcement actions.
(vii) A person receiving the non-objection notice is permitted to import the individual shipment only within one year of the date stamped on the non-objection notice.
(viii) A person receiving a non-objection notice from the Administrator for a petition to import used class I controlled substances must maintain the following records:
(A) a copy of the petition;
(B) the EPA non-objection notice;
(C) the bill of lading for the import; and
(D) The U.S. Customs entry number.
(4)
Reporting requirements—importers.
For each quarter, except as specified below, every importer of a class I controlled substance (including importers of used, recycled or reclaimed controlled substances) must submit to the Administrator a report containing the following information:
(i) Summaries of the records required in paragraphs (g)(1) (i) through (xvi) of this section for the previous quarter;
(ii) The total quantity imported in kilograms of each controlled substance for that quarter;
(iii) The quantity of those controlled substances imported that are used controlled substances.
(iv) The levels of import (expended consumption allowances before January 1, 1996) of controlled substances for that quarter and totaled by chemical for the control-period-to-date;
(vii) [Reserved]
(viii) The amount of controlled substances imported for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction;
(ix) The amount of controlled substances sold or transferred during the
quarter to each person for use in processes resulting in their transformation or eventual destruction;
(x) The amount of controlled substances sold or transferred during the quarter to each person for an essential use;
(xi) [Reserved]
(xii) Internal Revenue Service Certificates showing that the purchaser or recipient of imported controlled substances intends to transform those substances or destruction verifications (as in § 82.13(k)) showing that purchaser or recipient intends to destroy the controlled substances; and
(xiii) The certifications from essential-use allowance holders stating that the controlled substances were purchased solely for specified essential-uses and will not be resold or used in manufacturing; and the certifications from distributors of laboratory supplies that the controlled substances were purchased solely for eventual sale to laboratories that certify the controlled substances are for essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined at appendix G of this subpart), or if sales are made directly to laboratories, certifications from laboratories that the controlled substances will only be used for essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined at appendix G of this subpart) and will not be resold or used in manufacturing.
(xiv) In the case of laboratory essential uses, a certification from distributors of laboratory supplies that controlled substances were purchased for sale to laboratory customers who certify that the substances will only be used for laboratory applications and will not be resold or used in manufacturing; and
(xv) The amount of methyl bromide sold or transferred during the quarter to a person other than the importer solely for quarantine and preshipment applications;
(xvi) A list of the quantities of methyl bromide exported by the importer and or by other U.S. companies, to a Party to the Protocol that will be used solely for quarantine and preshipment applications and therefore were not imported expending consumption allowances; and
(xvii) For quarantine and preshipment applications of methyl bromide in the United States or by a person of another Party, one copy of a certification that the material will be used only for quarantine and preshipment applications in accordance with the definitions in this subpart from each recipient of the material and a list of additional quantities shipped to that same person for the quarter.
(xviii) For critical uses of methyl bromide, importers shall report annually the amount of critical use methyl bromide owned by the reporting entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use along with the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held.
(xix) Importers shall report annually the amount of methyl bromide produced or imported prior to the January 1, 2005, phaseout date owned by the reporting entity, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held.
(5)
Certification of intent to import for destruction.
For each individual shipment of a class I controlled substance imported with the intent to destroy that substance, an importer must submit electronically to the Administrator, at least 30 working days before the shipment is to leave the foreign port of export, the following information:
(i) Name, commodity code, and quantity in kilograms of each controlled substance to be imported;
(ii) Name and address of the importer, the importer ID number, and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;
(iii) Name and address of any intermediary who will aggregate controlled substances imported for destruction, and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;
(iv) The U.S. port of entry for the import, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the material. If
at the time of submitting the certification of intent to import for destruction the importer does not know the U.S. port of entry, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the material, and the importer receives a non-objection notice for the individual shipment in the petition, the importer is required to notify the Administrator of this information prior to the entry of the individual shipment into the United States;
(v) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the responsible party at the destruction facility;
(vi) The export license, application for an export license, or official communication acknowledging the export from the appropriate government agency in the country of export and, if recovered in another country, the export license or official communication from the appropriate government agency in that country, and quantity authorized for export in kilograms on the export license, and an English translation of these documents; and
(vii) A certification of accuracy of the information submitted in the certification.
(6)
Destruction verification.
For each individual shipment of a class I controlled substance imported with the intent to destroy that substance, an importer must submit to the Administrator a copy of the destruction verification within 30 days after destruction of the controlled substance(s).
(7)
Review of certification of intent to import for destruction.
(i) Starting on the first working day following receipt by the Administrator of a certification of intent to import a class I controlled substance for destruction, the Administrator will initiate a review of the information submitted under paragraph (g)(5) of this section and take action within 30 working days to issue either an objection notice or a non-objection notice for the individual shipment to the person who submitted the certification of intent to import the class I controlled substance for destruction.
(ii) The Administrator may issue an objection notice if the petition lacks or appears to lack any of the information required under paragraph (g)(5) of this section or for the reasons listed in paragraphs (g)(3)(i)(B) through (F) of this section.
(iii) In cases where the Administrator does not object to the petition, the Administrator will issue a non-objection notice.
(iv) To pass the approved class I controlled substances through U.S. Customs, the non-objection notice issued by EPA must accompany the shipment through U.S. Customs.
(v) If for some reason, following EPA's issuance of a non-objection notice, new information is brought to EPA's attention which shows that the non-objection notice was issued based on false information, then EPA has the right to:
(A) Revoke the non-objection notice;
(B) Pursue all means to ensure that the class I controlled substance is not imported into the United States; and
(C) Take appropriate enforcement actions.
(8)
Timing of import.
A person receiving the non-objection notice is permitted to import the individual shipment only within one year of the date stamped on the non-objection notice.
(9)
Additional recordkeeping requirements—importers of used, recycled, or reclaimed controlled substances.
A person receiving a non-objection notice from the Administrator for a certification of intent to import class I controlled substances for destruction must maintain the following records:
(i) A copy of the certificate of intent to import for destruction;
(ii) The EPA non-objection notice;
(iii) A copy of the export license, export license application, or official communication from the appropriate government agency in the country of export;
(iv) U.S. Customs entry documents for the import that must include one of the commodity codes from appendix K to this subpart;
(v) The date, amount, and type of controlled substance sent for destruction, per shipment;
(vi) An invoice from the destruction facility verifying the shipment was received;
(vii) A copy of the destruction verification from the destruction facility; and
(viii) An English translation of the document in paragraph (g)(9)(iii) of this section.
(10)
Recordkeeping requirements-aggregators.
A person identified in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section as aggregating a controlled substance prior to destruction must:
(i) Maintain transactional records that include the name and address of the entity from whom they received the controlled substance imported for destruction;
(ii) Maintain transactional records that include the name and address of the entity to whom they sent the controlled substance imported for destruction;
(iii) Maintain records that include the date and quantity of the imported controlled substance received for destruction;
(iv) Maintain records that include the date and quantity of the imported controlled substance sent for destruction; and
(v) If the person is the final aggregator of such a controlled substance before the material is destroyed, maintain a copy of the destruction verification.
(h)
Reporting requirements—exporters.
(1) For any exports of class I controlled substances (except methyl bromide) not reported under paragraph (f)(3) of this section (reporting for producers of controlled substances), the exporter who exported a class I controlled substance (except methyl bromide) must submit to the Administrator the following information within 45 days after the end of the control period in which the unreported exports left the United States:
(i) The names and addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the exports;
(ii) The exporter's Employer Identification Number;
(iii) The type and quantity of each controlled substance exported including the quantity of controlled substance that is used, recycled, or reclaimed;
(iv) The date on which, and the port from which, the controlled substances were exported from the United States or its territories;
(v) The country to which the controlled substances were exported;
(vi) The amount exported to each Article 5 country;
(vii) The commodity code of the controlled substance shipped; and
(viii) The invoice or sales agreement containing language similar to the Internal Revenue Service Certificate that the purchaser or recipient of imported controlled substances intends to transform those substances, or destruction verifications (as in paragraph (k) of this section) showing that the purchaser or recipient intends to destroy the controlled substances.
(2) For any exports of methyl bromide not reported under paragraph (f)(3) of this section (reporting for producers of controlled substances), the exporter who exported methyl bromide must submit to the Administrator the following information within 45 days after the end of each quarter in which the unreported exports left the United States:
(i) The names and addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the exports;
(ii) The exporter's Employer Identification Number;
(iii) The quantity of methyl bromide exported by use (transformation, destruction, critical use, or quarantine and preshipment);
(iv) The date on which, and the port from which, the methyl bromide was exported from the United States or its territories;
(v) The country to which the methyl bromide was exported;
(vi) The amount exported to each Article 5 country;
(vii) The commodity code of the controlled substance shipped; and
(viii) The invoice or sales agreement containing language similar to the Internal Revenue Service Certificate that the purchaser or recipient of imported methyl bromide intends to transform those substances, the destruction verifications (as in paragraph (k) of this section) showing that the purchaser or recipient intends to destroy the controlled substances, or the certification that the purchaser or recipient and the eventual applicator will only use the material for quarantine
and preshipment applications in accordance with the definitions in this subpart.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) Persons who destroy class I controlled substances shall, following promulgation of this rule, provide EPA with a one-time report stating the destruction unit's destruction efficiency and the methods used to record the volume destroyed and those used to determine destruction efficiency and the name of other relevant federal or state regulations that may apply to the destruction process. Any changes to the unit's destruction efficiency or methods used to record volume destroyed and to determine destruction efficiency must be reflected in a revision to this report to be submitted to EPA within 60 days of the change.
(k) Persons who purchase or receive and subsequently destroy controlled class I substances that were originally produced without expending allowances shall provide the producer or importer from whom they purchased or received the controlled substances with a verification that controlled substances will be used in processes that result in their destruction.
(1) The destruction verification shall include the following:
(i) Identity and address of the person intending to destroy controlled substances;
(ii) Indication of whether those controlled substances will be completely destroyed, as defined in § 82.3 of this rule, or less than completely destroyed, in which case the destruction efficiency at which such substances will be destroyed must be included;
(iii) Period of time over which the person intends to destroy controlled substances; and
(iv) Signature of the verifying person.
(2) If, at any time, any aspects of this verification change, the person must submit a revised verification reflecting such changes to the producer from whom that person purchases controlled substances intended for destruction.
(l) Persons who purchase class I controlled substances and who subsequently transform such controlled substances shall provide the producer or importer with the IRS certification that the controlled substances are to be used in processes resulting in their transformation.
(m) Any person who transforms or destroys class I controlled substances who has submitted an IRS certificate of intent to transform or a destruction verification (as under paragraph (k) of this section) to the producer or importer of the controlled substance, must report the names and quantities of class I controlled substances transformed and destroyed for each control period within 45 days of the end of such control period.
(n) Persons who import or export used controlled substances (including recycled or reclaimed) must label their bill of lading or invoice indicating that the controlled substance is used, recycled or reclaimed.
(o) Persons who import heels of controlled substances must label their bill of lading or invoice indicating that the controlled substance in the container is a heel.
(p) Every person who brings back a container with a heel to the United States, as defined in § 82.3, must report quarterly the amount brought into the United States certifying that the residual amount in each shipment is less than 10 percent of the volume of the container and will either:
(1) Remain in the container and be included in a future shipment;
(2) Be recovered and transformed;
(3) Be recovered and destroyed; or
(4) Be recovered for a non-emissive use.
(q) Every person who brings a container with a heel into the United States must report on the final disposition of each shipment within 45 days of the end of the control period.
(r) Every person who transships a controlled substance must maintain records that indicate that the controlled substance shipment originated in a foreign country destined for another foreign country, and does not enter interstate commerce with the United States.
(s) Any person allocated essential-use allowances who submits an order to a producer or importer for a controlled substance must report the quarterly quantity received from each producer or importer.
(t) Any distributor of laboratory supplies receiving controlled substances under the global laboratory essential-use exemption for sale to laboratory customers must report quarterly the quantity received of each controlled substance from each producer or importer.
(u) Holders of Essential-Use Allowances—Reporting.
(1) Within 30 days of the end of every quarter, any person allocated essential-use allowances must submit to the Administrator a report containing the quantity of each controlled substance, in kilograms, purchased and received from each producer and each importer during that quarter as well as from which country the controlled substance was imported.
(2) Any person allocated essential-use allowances must submit to the Administrator a report containing the following information within 30 days of the end of the control period, and, if possible, within 20 days of the end of the control period:
(i) The gross quantity of each controlled substance, in kilograms, that was used for the essential use during the control period; and
(ii) The quantity of each controlled substance, in kilograms, contained in exported products during the control period; and
(iii) The quantity of each controlled substance, in kilograms, that was destroyed or recycled during the control period; and
(iv) The quantity of each controlled substance, in kilograms, held in inventory as of the last day of the control period, that was acquired with essential use allowances in all control periods (
i.e.
quantity on hand at the end of the year); and
(v) The quantity of each controlled substance, in kilograms, in a stockpile that is owned by the company or is being held on behalf of the company under contract, and was produced or imported through the use of production allowances and consumption allowances prior to the phaseout (
i.e.
class I ODSs produced before their phaseout dates); and
(vi) For essential use allowances for metered-dose inhalers only, the allowance holder must report the total number of marketable units of each specific metered-dose inhaler product manufactured in the control period.
(v)
Laboratory use exemption distributors.
Any distributor of laboratory supplies who purchased controlled substances under the global essential laboratory and analytical use exemption must submit quarterly (except distributors following procedures in paragraph (x) of this section) the quantity of each controlled substance purchased by each laboratory customer or distributor whose certification was previously provided to the distributor pursuant to paragraph (w) of this section, the contact information for the source company from which material was purchased, and the laboratories to whom the material is sold.
(w)
Laboratory use exemption customers.
A laboratory customer purchasing a controlled substance under the global essential laboratory and analytical use exemption must provide the producer, importer or distributor with a one-time-per-year certification for each controlled substance that the substance will only be used for essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined at appendix G of this subpart) and not be resold or used in manufacturing.
(1) The identity and address of the laboratory customer;
(2) The name, email address, and phone number of a contact person for the laboratory customer;
(3) The name and quantity of each controlled substance purchased, and the estimated percent of the controlled substance that will be used for each listed type of laboratory application.
(x) Any distributor of laboratory supplies who purchased class I controlled substances under the global essential laboratory and analytical use exemption, and who only sells the class I controlled substances as reference standards for calibrating laboratory analytical equipment, may write a letter to the Administrator requesting permission to submit the reports required under paragraph (v) of this section annually rather than quarterly. The Administrator will review the request and issue a notification of permission to file annual reports if, in the Administrator's judgment, the distributor
meets the requirements of this paragraph. Upon receipt of a notification of extension from the Administrator, the distributor must submit annually the quantity of each controlled substance purchased by each laboratory customer whose certification was previously provided to the distributor pursuant to paragraph (w) of this section.
(y)
Quarantine and preshipment methyl bromide distributors.
Every distributor of methyl bromide who purchases or receives a quantity produced or imported for quarantine or preshipment applications under the exemptions in this subpart must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:
(1) Every distributor of quarantine and preshipment methyl bromide must certify to the producer, importer, or distributor from whom they purchased or received the controlled substance that quantities purchased or received will be sold only for quarantine applications or preshipment applications in accordance with the definitions in this subpart.
(2) Every distributor of quarantine and preshipment methyl bromide must receive from an applicator, exporter, or distributor to whom they sell or deliver the controlled substance a certification, prior to delivery, stating that the quantity will be used or sold solely for quarantine applications or preshipment applications in accordance with definitions in this subpart.
(3) Every distributor of quarantine and preshipment methyl bromide must maintain the certifications as records for 3 years.
(4) Every distributor of quarantine and preshipment methyl bromide must report to the Administrator within 45 days after the end of each quarter, the total quantity delivered to applicators or end users for quarantine applications and preshipment applications in accordance with definitions in this subpart.
(z)
Quarantine and preshipment methyl bromide applicators.
Every applicator of methyl bromide who purchases or receives a quantity produced or imported solely for quarantine or preshipment applications under the exemptions in this subpart must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:
(1)
Recordkeeping.
Every applicator of methyl bromide produced or imported for quarantine and preshipment applications under the exemptions of this subpart must maintain, for every application, a document from the commodity owner, shipper, or their agent requesting the use of methyl bromide citing the requirement that justifies its use in accordance with definitions in this subpart. These documents shall be retained for 3 years.
(2)
Reporting.
Every applicator who purchases or receives methyl bromide that was produced or imported for quarantine and preshipment applications under the exemptions in this subpart shall provide the distributor of the methyl bromide, prior to shipment, with a certification that the methyl bromide will be used only for quarantine applications or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart.
(aa)
Quarantine and preshipment methyl bromide end user certification.
Every commodity owner, shipper or their agent requesting an applicator to use methyl bromide that was produced or imported solely for quarantine and preshipment applications under the exemptions of this subpart must maintain a record for 3 years, for each request, certifying knowledge of the requirements associated with the exemption for quarantine and preshipment applications in this subpart and citing the requirement that justifies its use. The record must include the following statement: “I certify knowledge of the requirements associated with the exempted quarantine and preshipment applications published in 40 CFR part 82, including the requirement that this letter cite the treatments or official controls for quarantine applications or the official requirements for preshipment requirements.”
(bb) Every distributor of methyl bromide (class I, Group VI controlled substances) who purchases or receives a quantity of critical use methyl bromide must comply with recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in this paragraph (bb).
(1) Recordkeeping—Every distributor of critical use methyl bromide must certify to the producer or importer or
other entity from which they are acquiring quantities of critical use methyl bromide that such quantities received will be sold or used only for approved critical use(s) in accordance with the definitions and prohibitions in this subpart.
(i) Every distributor of a quantity of critical use methyl bromide must receive from an applicator, or any other entity to whom they sell critical use methyl bromide, a certification of the quantity of critical use methyl bromide ordered, prior to delivery of the quantity, stating that the quantity will be sold or used only for approved critical uses in accordance with definitions and prohibitions in this subpart.
(ii) Every distributor of methyl bromide who receives a certification from an applicator or any other entity to which they sell critical use methyl bromide must maintain the certifications as records for 3 years.
(iii) Every distributor of a quantity of critical use methyl bromide must maintain invoice and order records related to the sale of such material for 3 years.
(2) Reporting—Every distributor of critical use methyl bromide must report to the Administrator annually, the following items:
(i) For critical uses of class I, Group VI controlled substances, an annual list of the amount of critical use methyl bromide bought;
(ii) For critical uses of class I, Group VI controlled substances, an annual list of the amount of critical use methyl bromide sold for each specified critical use in appendix L of this subpart;
(iii) For critical uses of class I, Group VI controlled substances, report the amount of critical use methyl bromide owned by the reporting entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, along with the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held;
(iv) [Reserved]
(v) The amount of methyl bromide produced or imported prior to the January 1, 2005, phaseout date owned by the reporting entity, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held.
(cc) Every third party applicator of methyl bromide (class I, Group VI controlled substances) that purchases or receives critical use methyl bromide must comply with recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in this paragraph (cc).
(1) Recordkeeping—Every third party applicator of critical use methyl bromide must certify to the producer or importer or other entity from which they are acquiring quantities of critical use methyl bromide that such quantities received will be sold or used only for approved critical use(s) in accordance with the definitions and prohibitions in this subpart.
(i) Every third party applicator of a quantity of critical use methyl bromide must receive from any entity to whom they sell critical use methyl bromide, a certification of the quantity of critical use methyl bromide ordered, prior to delivery of the quantity, stating that the quantity will be sold or used only for approved critical uses in accordance with definitions and prohibitions in this subpart.
(ii) Every third party applicator of methyl bromide who receives a certification from an entity to which they sell critical use methyl bromide must maintain the certifications as records for 3 years.
(iii) Every third party applicator of a quantity of critical use methyl bromide must maintain invoice and order records related to the sale of such material for 3 years.
(2) Reporting—Every third party applicator of critical use methyl bromide must report to the Administrator annually, the following items:
(i) For critical uses of class I, Group VI controlled substances, an annual list of the amount of critical use methyl bromide bought;
(ii) For critical uses of class I, Group VI controlled substances, an annual list of the amount of critical use methyl bromide sold for each specified critical use in appendix L of this subpart;
(iii) For critical uses of class I, Group VI controlled substances, report annually the amount of critical use methyl bromide owned by the reporting entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying quantities dedicated for pre-plant use and quantities dedicated for post-harvest use, along with the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held;
(iv) [Reserved]
(v) The amount of methyl bromide produced or imported prior to the January 1, 2005 phaseout date owned by the reporting entity, as well as quantities held by the reporting entity on behalf of another entity, specifying the name of the entity on whose behalf the material is held.
(dd) Every approved critical user purchasing an amount of critical use methyl bromide or purchasing fumigation services with critical use methyl bromide must, for each request, identify the use as a critical use and certify being an approved critical user. The approved critical user certification will state, in part: “I certify, under penalty of law, I am an approved critical user and I will use this quantity of methyl bromide for an approved critical use. My action conforms to the requirements associated with the critical use exemption published in 40 CFR part 82. I am aware that any agricultural commodity within a treatment chamber, facility or field I fumigate with critical use methyl bromide cannot subsequently or concurrently be fumigated with non-critical use methyl bromide during the same control period, excepting a QPS treatment or a treatment for a different use (
e.g.
, a different crop or commodity). I will not use this quantity of methyl bromide for a treatment chamber, facility, or field that I previously fumigated with non-critical use methyl bromide during the same control period, excepting a QPS treatment or a treatment for a different use (
e.g.
, a different crop or commodity), unless a local township limit now prevents me from using methyl bromide alternatives or I have now become an approved critical user as a result of rulemaking.” The certification will also identify the type of critical use methyl bromide purchased, the location of the treatment, the crop or commodity treated, the quantity of critical use methyl bromide purchased, and the acreage/square footage treated, and will be signed and dated by the approved critical user.
(ee)
Process agents.
Any entity that uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent must comply, in addition to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 82.25, with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements for each facility that uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent:
(1)
Reporting—one-time report.
By February 7, 2025, or within 120 days of the date that an entity first uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent, whichever is later, any entity that uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent must submit to the Administrator a report containing the following information for each use of a class I controlled substance as a process agent:
(i) The name and address of each facility and plant, and each responsible person's name, email address, and phone number;
(ii) The name, purpose, and final product manufactured of each process agent application that uses a class I controlled substance;
(iii) The start-up date of each facility and the start-up date of each plant that uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent;
(iv) For each facility, the names and amounts of each product and byproduct manufactured in the process agent application during the previous control period, including amounts destroyed or used as a feedstock;
(v) For each facility, the total air, fugitive air, and stack point air emissions of class I controlled substances used as a process agent during the previous control period;
(vi) For each facility, a description of technologies currently being used and actions taken or currently under evaluation to minimize use or emissions of class I controlled substances used as process agents (including estimated emissions reductions associated with each); and
(vii) For each facility, a description that includes details of the percentages of class I controlled substances used as a process agent and:
(A) Retained within the process agent application;
(B) Consumed in the process agent application;
(C) Recovered after the process agent application;
(D) Emitted; and
(E) Entrained in the final product.
(2)
Annual reports.
Any entity that uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent must provide by February 14 of each year an annual report for the previous control period containing the following information for each use of the class I controlled substance as a process agent:
(i) For each facility, contact information including email address and phone number for a primary and alternate contact person;
(ii) For each facility, the name and amount of each class I controlled substance initially introduced into the process agent application for use as a process agent, specified independently for paragraphs (ee)(2)(ii)(A) through (G) of this section by whether the class I controlled substance was:
(A) Obtained as virgin;
(B) Obtained as used;
(C) Produced by the entity;
(D) Purchased from a U.S. producer;
(E) Imported;
(F) Reclaimed by the entity from a different use; and
(G) Reclaimed by another entity;
(iii) For each facility, the name and amount of each class I controlled substance used as a process agent and reused or recycled for use by the entity for continued use in the same process agent application at the same facility;
(iv) For each facility, the name and amount of each class I controlled substance used as a process agent that was ultimately:
(A) Transformed;
(B) Reused or recycled for use in a different process agent application; or
(C) Destroyed by approved destruction technologies;
(v) For each facility, the total air, fugitive air, and stack point air emissions of each class I controlled substance used as a process agent;
(vi) For each facility, the names and amounts of each product and byproduct manufactured in the process agent application during the previous control period, including amounts destroyed or used as a feedstock;
(vii) For each facility, a description of emission reduction actions for class I controlled substances used as a process agent taken since the last one-time or annual report, planned, or currently under evaluation; and
(viii) For each entity, any process agent application changes anticipated to result in increases for the next annual report, as compared to the previous control period and the average of the three previous control periods, of the following magnitude must be specified in a report submitted to EPA at least 180 days prior to implementing the change:
(A) Greater than 20 percent of the amount of class I controlled substance initially introduced for use as a process agent; or
(B) At least one metric ton and 20 percent of the amount emitted during use as a process agent.
(3)
Recordkeeping.
Every entity who uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent during a control period must maintain the following records, as applicable:
(i) Dated records of the quantity of each class I controlled substance initially introduced at each facility into the process application for use as a process agent;
(ii) Dated records of the quantity of each class I controlled substance produced at each facility for use as a process agent;
(iii) Records identifying the producer or importer of the class I controlled substance received at each facility for use as a process agent by the entity;
(iv) For each facility, copies of the invoices or receipts documenting the sale or other transfer of ownership of each class I controlled substance for use as a process agent to the entity;
(v) Dated records identifying the quantity of each product manufactured within each facility by using a class I controlled substance as a process agent;
(vi) For each facility, records of the date and the estimated quantity of any
spill or release of each class I controlled substance used as a process agent that equals or exceeds 100 pounds;
(vii) For each facility, a description of the methodology used to measure and calculate emissions, and dated records of equipment parameters, measured data, supporting calculations, and other rationale used to validate reported emission quantities;
(viii) For each facility, dated records of the quantity of each class I controlled substance used as a process agent which is subsequently transformed or destroyed;
(ix) In the case where class I controlled substances used as a process agent were ultimately transformed by an entity other than the entity which last used the class I controlled substances as a process agent, a copy of the Internal Revenue Service Certificate showing that the purchaser or recipient of the controlled substance, in the United States or in another country that is a Party, certifies the intent to transform the controlled substance, or sell the controlled substance for transformation; and
(x) In the case where class I controlled substances used as a process agent were ultimately destroyed by an entity other than the entity which last used the class I controlled substances as a process agent, a copy of the destruction verification (as in paragraph (k) of this section), showing that the purchaser or recipient of a controlled substance, in the United States or in another country that is a Party, certifies the intent to destroy the controlled substance, or sell the controlled substance for destruction.
(4)
Request for extension.
Any entity that uses a class I controlled substance as a process agent may request an extension to comply with paragraph (ee)(1) of this section.
(i) This request must include the following information:
(A) Name of the facility submitting the request, contact information for a person at the facility, and the address of the facility;
(B) An explanation of the reasons that an extension is necessary and the timeline that would be practicable; and
(C) Supporting documentation of the circumstances.
(ii) The Administrator will review the request and, within five working days of receiving a complete request, provide notification of whether the request is granted and when the report is due.
(5)
Notification that use has ceased.
Reports are no longer required for process agent use starting in the year after an entity notifies the Administrator that they have permanently ceased use of all class I controlled substances as a process agent, but the entity must continue to comply with all applicable recordkeeping requirements.
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 82.13, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 82.14
Process for electronic reporting.
(a) Starting May 18, 2020, reports and petitions that are available to be submitted through the Central Data Exchange or another format specified by EPA, as well as any related supporting documents, must be submitted through that tool.
(b) Entities can register and access the Central Data Exchange as follows:
(1) Go to EPA's Central Data Exchange website at
https://cdx.epa.gov
and follow the links for the submission of ozone-depleting substances.
(2) Call EPA's Central Data Exchange Help Desk at 1-888-890-1995.
(3) Email the EPA's Central Data Exchange Help Desk at
HelpDesk@epacdx.net.
[85 FR 15296, Mar. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 82432, Oct. 10, 2024]
§ 82.15
Prohibitions for class II controlled substances.
(a)
Production.
(1) Effective January 21, 2003, no person may produce class II controlled substances for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances, in excess of the quantity of unexpended production allowances, unexpended Article 5
allowances, unexpended export production allowances, or conferred unexpended HCFC-141b exemption allowances held by that person for that substance under the authority of this subpart at that time in that control period, unless the substances are transformed or destroyed domestically or by a person of another Party, or unless they are produced using an exemption granted in paragraph (f) of this section. Every kilogram of excess production constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
(2) Effective January 21, 2003, no person may use production allowances to produce a quantity of class II controlled substance unless that person holds under the authority of this subpart at the same time consumption allowances sufficient to cover that quantity of class II controlled substances. No person may use consumption allowances to produce a quantity of class II controlled substances unless the person holds under authority of this subpart at the same time production allowances sufficient to cover that quantity of class II controlled substances.
(b)
Import.
(1) Effective January 21, 2003, no person may import class II controlled substances (other than transhipments, heels or used class II controlled substances) for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances , in excess of the quantity of unexpended consumption allowances, or conferred unexpended HCFC-141b exemption allowances held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time in that control period, unless the substances are for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, or unless they are produced using an exemption granted in paragraph (f) of this section. Every kilogram of excess import constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
(2) Effective January 21, 2003, no person may import, at any time in any control period, a used class II controlled substance for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances, without having submitted a petition to the Administrator and received a non-objection notice in accordance with § 82.24(c)(3) and (4). A person issued a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of used class II controlled substances may not transfer or confer the right to import, and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the used class II controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. Every kilogram of import of used class II controlled substance in excess of the quantity stated in the non-objection notice issued by the Administrator in accordance with § 82.24(c)(3) and (4) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
(3) No person may import for purposes of destruction, at any time in any control period, a class II controlled substance for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances, without having submitted a certification of intent to import for destruction to the Administrator and received a non-objection notice in accordance with § 82.24(c)(6). A person issued a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of class II controlled substances for destruction may not transfer or confer the right to import and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the class II controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. For imports intended to be destroyed in the United States, a person issued a non-objection notice must destroy the controlled substance within one year of the date stamped on the non-objection letter, may not transfer or confer the right to import, and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the class II controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. Every kilogram of import of class II controlled substance in excess of the quantity stated in the non-objection notice issued by the Administrator in accordance with § 82.24(c)(6) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
(c)
Production with Article 5 allowances.
No person may introduce into U.S. interstate commerce any class II controlled substance produced with Article 5 allowances, except for export to an Article 5 Party as listed in Appendix E of this subpart. Every kilogram of a class II controlled substance produced with Article 5 allowances that is introduced into interstate commerce other
than for export to an Article 5 Party constitutes a separate violation under this subpart. No person may export any class II controlled substance produced with Article 5 allowances to a non-Article 5 Party. Every kilogram of a class II controlled substance that was produced with Article 5 allowances that is exported to a non-Article 5 Party constitutes a separate violation under this subpart.
(d)
Production with export production allowances.
No person may introduce into U.S. interstate commerce any class II controlled substance produced with export production allowances. Every kilogram of a class II controlled substance that was produced with export production allowances that is introduced into U.S. interstate commerce constitutes a separate violation under this subpart.
(e) Trade with Parties. No person may import or export any quantity of a class II controlled substance listed in Appendix A to this subpart, from or to any foreign state that is not either:
(1) A Party to the Beijing Amendment. As of March 14, 2014, the following foreign states had not ratified the Beijing Amendment: Kazakhstan, Libya, and Mauritania. For updates on ratification status, see the Ozone Secretariat's Web site at:
http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php.
Or,
(2) A foreign state not party to the Beijing Amendment that is complying with the Beijing Amendment as defined in this subpart.
(f)
Exemptions.
(1) Medical Devices [Reserved]
(g)
Introduction into interstate commerce or use.
(1) Effective January 1, 2010, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use HCFC-141b (unless used, recovered, and recycled) for any purpose except for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a); for HCFC-141b exemption needs; as a transhipment or heel; or for exemptions permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.
(2)(i) Effective January 1, 2010, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use HCFC-22 or HCFC-142b (unless used, recovered, and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2010; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a); as a transhipment or heel; or for exemptions permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.
(ii) Introduction into interstate commerce and use of HCFC-22 is not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section if the HCFC-22 is for use in medical equipment prior to January 1, 2015; for use in thermostatic expansion valves prior to January 1, 2015; or for use as a refrigerant in appliances manufactured before January 1, 2012, provided that the components are manufactured prior to January 1, 2010, and are specified in a building permit or a contract dated before January 1, 2010, for use on a particular project.
(3) Effective January 1, 2015, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use HCFC-141b (unless used, recovered, and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a), as a transhipment or heel; or for exemptions permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.
(4)(i) Effective January 1, 2015, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use any class II controlled substance not governed by paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section (unless used, recovered and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020; for use as a fire suppression streaming agent listed as acceptable for use or acceptable subject to narrowed use limits for nonresidential applications in accordance with the regulations at subpart G of this part; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a); as a transhipment or heel; for exemptions permitted under paragraph (f) of this section; or for exemptions permitted under paragraph (g)(4)(ii) or (iii) of this section.
(ii) Effective January 1, 2015, use of HCFC-225ca or HCFC-225cb as a solvent (excluding use in manufacturing a product containing HCFC-225ca or HCFC-225cb) is not subject to the use
prohibition in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section if the person using the HCFC-225ca or HCFC-225cb placed the controlled substance into inventory before January 1, 2015. This paragraph does not create an exemption to the prohibition on introduction into interstate commerce in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section.
(iii) Effective January 1, 2015, use of HCFC-124 as a sterilant for the manufacture and testing of biological indicators is not subject to the use prohibition in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section if the person using the HCFC-124 placed the controlled substance into inventory before January 1, 2015. This paragraph does not create an exemption to the prohibition on introduction into interstate commerce in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section.
(5)(i) Effective January 1, 2020, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use HCFC-123 or HCFC-124 (unless used, recovered and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020; for use as a fire suppression streaming agent listed as acceptable for use or acceptable subject to narrowed use limits for nonresidential applications in accordance with the regulations at subpart G of this part and only to the extent permitted under paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a); as a transhipment or heel; or for exemptions permitted under paragraph (f) of this section.
(ii) HCFC-123 that was produced or imported on or after January 1, 2020 may be used as a fire suppression streaming agent only to service equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020. HCFC-123 that was produced or imported prior to January 1, 2020 (or used, recovered and recycled) may be used as a fire suppression streaming agent in equipment manufactured before, on, or after January 1, 2020.
(iii) Notwithstanding the prohibition on use in paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section, the use of HCFC-123 as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured on or after January 1, 2020 but before January 1, 2021 is permitted if the conditions of this paragraph (g)(5)(iii) are met. The HCFC-123 must be in the possession of an entity that will complete the manufacture of the appliance and imported prior to January 1, 2020. The appliance components must be ready for shipment to a construction location prior to July 24, 2019 and be specified in a building permit or a contract dated before July 24, 2019 for use on a particular project. All HCFC-123 used to service such appliances on or after January 1, 2021 must be used, recovered, or recycled.
(6) Effective January 1, 2030, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use any class II controlled substance (unless used, recovered, and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a); as a transhipment or heel; or for exemptions permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.
(7) Effective January 1, 2040, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use any class II controlled substance (unless used, recovered, and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction, as a transhipment or heel, or for exemptions permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.
(8) No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, any class II substance that they know, or have reason to know, was imported in violation of this section, except for such actions needed to re-export the controlled substance. Every kilogram of a controlled substance imported in contravention of this paragraph (g)(8) that is sold or distributed, or offered for sale or distribution, constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
[68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 34031, June 17, 2004; 71 FR 41171, July 20, 2006; 74 FR 66445, Dec. 15, 2009; 79 FR 16686, Mar. 26, 2014; 79 FR 64286, Oct. 28, 2014; 85 FR 15296, Mar. 17, 2020; 85 FR 15296, Mar. 17, 2020]
§ 82.16
Phaseout schedule of class II controlled substances.
(a)(1)
Calendar-year allowances.
In each control period as indicated in the following tables, each person is granted the specified percentage of baseline production allowances and baseline
consumption allowances for the specified class II controlled substances apportioned under §§ 82.17 and 82.19:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)—Calendar-Year HCFC Production Allowances
Control period
Percent of HCFC-141b
Percent of HCFC-22
Percent of HCFC-142b
Percent of HCFC-123
Percent of HCFC-124
Percent of HCFC-225ca
Percent of HCFC-225cb
2003
0
100
100
2004
0
100
100
2005
0
100
100
2006
0
100
100
2007
0
100
100
2008
0
100
100
2009
0
100
100
2010
0
41.9
0.47
0
125
125
125
2011
0
32
4.9
0
125
125
125
2012
0
17.7
4.9
0
125
125
125
2013
0
30.1
4.9
0
125
125
125
2014
0
26.1
4.9
0
125
125
125
2015
0
21.7
0.37
0
5
0
0
2016
0
21.7
0.32
0
5
0
0
2017
0
21.7
0.26
0
5
0
0
2018
0
21.7
0.21
0
5
0
0
2019
0
21.7
0.16
0
5
0
0
2020
0
0
0
0
5.0
0
0
2021
0
0
0
0
5.0
0
0
2022
0
0
0
0
5.0
0
0
2023
0
0
0
0
4.4
0
0
2024
0
0
0
0
3.8
0
0
2025
0
0
0
0
3.2
0
0
2026
0
0
0
0
2.5
0
0
2027
0
0
0
0
1.9
0
0
2028
0
0
0
0
1.3
0
0
2029
0
0
0
0
0.7
0
0
2030
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Table 2 to Paragraph (
a
)—Calendar-Year HCFC Consumption Allowances
Control period
Percent of HCFC-141b
Percent of HCFC-22
Percent of HCFC-142b
Percent of HCFC-123
Percent of HCFC-124
Percent of HCFC-225ca
Percent of HCFC-225cb
2003
0
100
100
2004
0
100
100
2005
0
100
100
2006
0
100
100
2007
0
100
100
2008
0
100
100
2009
0
100
100
2010
0
41.9
0.47
125
125
125
125
2011
0
32
4.9
125
125
125
125
2012
0
17.7
4.9
125
125
125
125
2013
0
18
4.9
125
125
125
125
2014
0
14.2
4.9
125
125
125
125
2015
0
7
1.7
100
8.3
0
0
2016
0
5.6
1.5
100
8.3
0
0
2017
0
4.2
1.2
100
8.3
0
0
2018
0
2.8
1
100
8.3
0
0
2019
0
1.4
0.7
100
8.3
0
0
2020
0
0
0
32.3
8.3
0
0
2021
0
0
0
32.3
8.3
0
0
2022
0
0
0
32.3
8.3
0
0
2023
0
0
0
28.4
7.3
0
0
2024
0
0
0
24.4
6.3
0
0
2025
0
0
0
20.4
5.3
0
0
2026
0
0
0
16.4
4.2
0
0
2027
0
0
0
12.5
3.2
0
0
2028
0
0
0
8.5
2.2
0
0
2029
0
0
0
4.5
1.1
0
0
2030
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
(2)
Recoupment allowances.
In the control period beginning January 1, 2013 and ending December 31, 2013, and again in the control period beginning January 1, 2014 and ending December 31, 2014, certain companies are granted HCFC consumption and production allowances in addition to the percentage of baseline listed in the table at paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The following companies will receive the amounts listed below in both 2013 and 2014: 2,374,846 kg of HCFC-22 consumption allowances and 2,305,924 kg of HCFC-22 production allowances to Arkema; 1,170 kg of HCFC-142b consumption allowances to DuPont; 29,146 kg of HCFC-142b consumption allowances and 53,549 kg of HCFC-142b production allowances to Honeywell; 578,948 kg of HCFC-22 consumption allowances to Solvay Fluorides; and 144,900 kg of HCFC-142b production allowances to Solvay Solexis.
(b) Effective January 1, 2003, no person may produce HCFC-141b except for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction, for export under § 82.18(a) using unexpended Article 5 allowances, for export under § 82.18(b) using unexpended export production allowances, for HCFC-141b exemption needs using unexpended HCFC-141b exemption allowances, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f). Effective January 1, 2003, no person may import HCFC-141b (other than transhipments, heels or used class II controlled substances) in excess of the quantity of unexpended HCFC-141b exemption allowances held by that person except for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f).
(c) Effective January 1, 2010, no person may produce HCFC-22 or HCFC-142b for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, for use in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2010, for export under § 82.18(a) using unexpended Article 5 allowances, or for export under § 82.18(b) using unexpended export production allowances, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f). Effective January 1, 2010, no person may import HCFC-22 or HCFC-142b (other than transhipments, heels or used class II controlled substances) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f), or for use in equipment manufactured prior to January 1, 2010.
(d) Effective January 1, 2015, no person may produce class II controlled substances not previously controlled for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020, for use as a fire suppression streaming agent listed as acceptable for use or acceptable subject to narrowed use limits for nonresidential applications in accordance with the regulations at subpart G of this part, for export under § 82.18(a) using unexpended Article 5 allowances, for export under § 82.18(b) using unexpended export production allowances, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f). Effective January 1, 2015, no person may import class II controlled substances not subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section (other than transhipments, heels, or used class II controlled substances) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f), for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured prior to January 1, 2020, or for use as a fire suppression streaming agent listed as acceptable for use or acceptable subject to narrowed use limits for nonresidential applications in accordance with the regulations at subpart G of this part.
(e)(1) Effective January 1, 2020, no person may produce HCFC-22 or HCFC-142b for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, for export under § 82.18(a) using unexpended Article 5 allowances, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f). Effective January 1, 2020, no person may import HCFC-22 or HCFC-142b for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f).
(2) Effective January 1, 2020, no person may produce HCFC-123 for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction, for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020, for export under § 82.18(a) using unexpended Article 5 allowances, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f). Effective January 1, 2020, no person may import HCFC-123 for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction, for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020, for use as a fire suppression streaming agent in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020 and listed as acceptable for use or acceptable subject to narrowed use limits for nonresidential applications, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f).
(f) Effective January 1, 2030, no person may produce class II controlled substances, for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, for export under § 82.18(a) using unexpended Article 5 allowances, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f). Effective January 1, 2030, no person may import class II controlled substances for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f).
(g) Effective January 1, 2040, no person may produce class II controlled substances for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, or for exemptions permitted in § 82.15(f).
(h) [Reserved]
[68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 41171, July 20, 2006; 74 FR 66446, Dec. 15, 2009; 76 FR 47467, Aug. 5, 2011; 78 FR 20027, Apr. 3, 2013; 79 FR 64286, Oct. 28, 2014; 85 FR 15296, Mar. 17, 2020]
§ 82.17
Apportionment of baseline production allowances for class II controlled substances.
The following persons are apportioned baseline production allowances for HCFC-22, HCFC-141b, HCFC-142b, HCFC-123, HCFC-124, HCFC-225ca, and HCFC-225cb as set forth in the following table:
Person
Controlled substance
Allowances
(kg)
AGC Chemicals Americas
HCFC-225ca
266,608
HCFC-225cb
373,952
Arkema
HCFC-22
46,692,336
HCFC-141b
24,647,925
HCFC-142b
484,369
DuPont
HCFC-22
42,638,049
HCFC-124
2,269,210
Honeywell
HCFC-22
37,378,252
HCFC-141b
28,705,200
HCFC-142b
2,417,534
HCFC-124
1,759,681
MDA Manufacturing
HCFC-22
2,383,835
Solvay Specialty Polymers USA, LLC
HCFC-142b
6,541,764
[79 FR 64287, Oct. 28, 2014]
§ 82.18
Availability of production in addition to baseline production allowances for class II controlled substances.
(a)
Article 5 allowances.
(1) Effective January 1, 2003, a person apportioned baseline production allowances for HCFC-141b, HCFC-22, or HCFC-142b under § 82.17 is also apportioned Article 5 allowances, equal to 15 percent of their baseline production allowances, for the specified HCFC for each control period up until December 31, 2009, to be used for the production of the specified HCFC for export only to foreign states listed in appendix E to this subpart.
(2) Effective January 1, 2010, a person apportioned baseline production allowances under § 82.17 for HCFC-141b, HCFC-22, or HCFC-142b is also apportioned Article 5 allowances, equal to 10 percent of their baseline production allowances, for the specified HCFC for each control period up until December
31, 2019, to be used for the production of the specified HCFC for export only to foreign states listed in Appendix E to this subpart.
(3) Effective January 1, 2015, a person apportioned baseline production allowances under § 82.17 for HCFC-123, HCFC-124, HCFC-225ca, and HCFC-225cb is also apportioned Article 5 allowances, equal to 10 percent of their baseline production allowances, for the specified HCFC for each control period up until December 31, 2019, to be used for the production of the specified HCFC for export only to foreign states listed in Appendix E to this subpart.
(b)
Export Production Allowances.
(1) Effective January 1, 2003, a person apportioned baseline production allowances for HCFC-141b under § 82.17 is also apportioned export production allowances, equal to 100 percent of their baseline production allowances, for HCFC-141b for each control period up until December 31, 2009, to be used for the production of HCFC-141b for export only, in accordance with this section.
(2) [Reserved]
(c)
International trades of production allowances, export production allowances and Article 5 allowances.
(1) A person may increase or decrease their production allowances, export production allowances, or Article 5 allowances, for a specified control period through trades with a foreign state that is Party to the Beijing Amendment or is complying with the Beijing Amendment as defined in this subpart. The foreign state must agree either to trade to the person for the current control period some quantity of production that the foreign state is permitted under the Montreal Protocol or to receive from the person for the current control period some quantity of production that the person is permitted under this subpart. The person must expend their consumption allowances allocated under § 82.19, or obtained under § 82.20 in order to produce with the additional production allowances.
(2)
Trade from a Party—Information requirements.
(i) A person requesting a trade from a Party must submit to the Administrator a signed document from the principal diplomatic representative in that nation's embassy in the U.S. stating that the appropriate authority within that nation will establish or revise production limits for the nation to equal the lowest of the following three production quantities:
(A) The maximum production that the nation is allowed under the Protocol minus the quantity (in kilograms) to be traded;
(B) The maximum production that is allowed under the nation's applicable domestic law minus the quantity (in kilograms) to be traded; or
(C) The average of the nation's actual national production level for the three years prior to the trade minus the production to be traded.
(ii) A person requesting a trade from a Party must also submit to the Administrator a true copy of the document that sets forth the following:
(A) The identity and address of the person;
(B) The identity of the Party;
(C) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the person and for the Party;
(D) The chemical type and quantity (in kilograms) of production being traded;
(E) Documentation that the Party possesses the necessary quantity of unexpended production rights;
(F) The control period(s) to which the trade applies; and
(G) For increased production intended for export to the Party from whom the allowances would be received, a signed statement of intent to export to the Party.
(3)
Trade to a Party—Information requirements.
A person requesting a trade to a Party must submit a request that sets forth the following information to the Administrator:
(i) The identity and address of the person;
(ii) The identity of the Party;
(iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the person and for the Party;
(iv) The chemical type and quantity (in kilograms) of allowable production being traded; and
(v) The control period(s) to which the trade applies.
(4)
Review of international trade request to a Party.
After receiving a trade request that meets the requirements of
paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the Administrator may, at his/her discretion, consider the following factors by seeking concurrence from the Department of Commerce, the United States Trade Representative, and the Department of State, where appropriate, in deciding whether to approve such a trade:
(i) Possible creation of domestic economic hardship;
(ii) Possible effects on trade;
(iii) Potential environmental implications; and
(iv) The total quantity of unexpended production allowances held by U.S. entities.
(5)
Notice of trade.
If the request meets the requirement of paragraph (c)(2) of this section for trades from Parties and paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section for trades to Parties, the Administrator will issue the person a notice. The notice will either grant or deduct production allowances or export production allowances or Article 5 allowances and specify the control period to which the trade applies. The Administrator may disapprove the trade request contingent on the consideration of factors listed in paragraph (c)(4) of this section for trades to Parties.
(i) For trades from a Party, the Administrator will issue a notice revising the allowances held by the recipient of the trade to equal the unexpended production allowances, unexpended export production allowances, or unexpended Article 5 allowances held by the recipient of the trade under this subpart plus the quantity of allowable production traded from the Party.
(ii) For trades to a Party, the Administrator will issue a notice revising the production limit for the trader to equal the lesser of:
(A) The unexpended production allowances, unexpended export production allowances or unexpended Article 5 allowances held by the trade or minus the quantity traded; or
(B) The unexpended production allowances held by the trader minus the amount by which the U.S. average annual production of the class II controlled substance being traded for the three years prior to the trade is less than the total allowable production of that class II controlled substance under this subpart minus the amount traded; or
(C) The total U.S. allowable production of the class II controlled substance being traded minus the three-year average of the actual annual U.S. production of the class II controlled substance prior to the control period of the trade.
(6) Revised notices of production limits for subsequent traders. If after one person obtains approval of a trade of allowable production of a class II controlled substance to a Party and other persons obtain approval for trades of the same class II controlled substance during the same control period, the Administrator will issue revised notices. The notices will revise the production limits for each of the other persons trading to equal the lesser of:
(i) The unexpended production allowances, unexpended export production allowances or unexpended Article 5 allowances held by the trader under this subpart minus the quantity traded; or
(ii) The result of the following set of calculations:
(A) The total U.S. allowable production of the class II controlled substance minus the three-year average of the actual annual U.S. production of the class II controlled substance prior to the control period of the trade;
(B) The quantity traded divided by the total quantity traded by all the other persons trading the same class II controlled substance in the same control period;
(C) The result of paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(A) of this section multiplied by the result of paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(B) of this section;
(D) The quantity derived in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, minus the result of paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(C) of this section;
(7) Production limit for previous traders. The Administrator will also issue a notice revising the production limit for each trader who previously obtained approval of a trade of the class II controlled substance to a Party in the same control period to equal the result of the following set of calculations:
(i) The total U.S. allowable production of the class II controlled substance minus the three-year average of the actual annual U.S. production of the
class II controlled substance prior to the control period of the trade;
(ii) The quantity traded by the person divided by the quantity traded by all the persons who have traded that class II controlled substance in that control period;
(iii) The result of paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section multiplied by the result of paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this section.
(iv) The unexpended production allowances, unexpended export production allowances or unexpended Article 5 allowances held by the person plus the result of paragraph (c)(7)(iii) of this section;
(8) Effective date of revised production limits. The change in production allowances, export production allowances or Article 5 allowances will be effective on the date that the notice is issued.
[68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 66446, Dec. 15, 2009; 79 FR 16687, Mar. 26, 2014]
§ 82.19
Apportionment of baseline consumption allowances for class II controlled substances.
The following persons are apportioned baseline consumption allowances for HCFC-22, HCFC-142b, HCFC-123, HCFC-124, HCFC-225ca, and HCFC-225cb as set forth in the following table:
Person
Controlled substance
Allowances
(kg)
ABCO Refrigeration Supply
HCFC-22
279,366
AGC Chemicals Americas
HCFC-225ca
285,328
HCFC-225cb
286,832
Altair Partners
HCFC-22
302,011
Arkema
HCFC-22
48,637,642
HCFC-141b
25,405,570
HCFC-142b
483,827
HCFC-124
3,719
Carrier
HCFC-22
54,088
Continental Industrial Group
HCFC-141b
20,315
Coolgas, Inc.
HCFC-141b
16,097,869
Combs Investment Property
HCFC-22
1,040,458
HCFC-123
19,980
HCFC-124
3,742
Discount Refrigerants
HCFC-141b
994
DuPont
HCFC-22
38,814,862
HCFC-141b
9,049
HCFC-142b
52,797
HCFC-123
1,877,042
HCFC-124
743,312
H.G. Refrigeration Supply
HCFC-22
40,068
Honeywell
HCFC-22
35,392,492
HCFC-141b
20,749,489
HCFC-142b
1,315,819
HCFC-124
1,284,265
ICC Chemical Corp.
HCFC-141b
81,225
ICOR
HCFC-124
81,220
Mexichem Fluor Inc.
HCFC-22
2,546,305
Kivlan
Company
HCFC-22
2,081,018
MDA Manufacturing
HCFC-22
2,541,545
Mondy Global
HCFC-22
281,824
National Refrigerants
HCFC-22
5,528,316
HCFC-123
72,600
HCFC-124
50,380
Perfect Technology Center, LP
HCFC-123
9,100
Refricenter of Miami
HCFC-22
381,293
Refricentro
HCFC-22
45,979
R-Lines
HCFC-22
63,172
Saez Distributors
HCFC-22
37,936
Solvay Fluorides, LLC
HCFC-22
3,781,691
HCFC-141b
3,940,115
Solvay Specialty Polymers USA, LLC
HCFC-142b
194,536
Tulstar Products
HCFC-141b
89,913
HCFC-123
34,800
HCFC-124
229,582
USA Refrigerants
HCFC-22
14,865
[79 FR 64288, Oct. 28, 2014]
§ 82.20
Availability of consumption allowances in addition to baseline consumption allowances for class II controlled substances.
(a) A person may obtain at any time during the control period, in accordance with the provisions of this section, consumption allowances equivalent to the quantity of class II controlled substances that the person exported from the United States and its territories to a foreign state in accordance with this section, when that quantity of class II controlled substance was produced in the U.S. or imported into the United States with expended consumption allowances. Both the export of the class II controlled substance and the request for additional consumption allowances must occur during a calendar year in which consumption allowances were issued for that class II controlled substance.
(1) The exporter must submit to the Administrator a request for consumption allowances setting forth the following:
(i) The identities and addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the exports;
(ii) The exporter's Employer Identification Number;
(iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the exporter and the recipient;
(iv) The quantity (in kilograms) and type of class II controlled substances reported;
(v) The source of the class II controlled substances and the date purchased;
(vi) The date on which, and the port from which, the class II controlled substances were exported from the U.S. or its territories;
(vii) The country to which the class II controlled substances were exported;
(viii) A copy of the bill of lading and the invoice indicating the net quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances shipped and documenting the sale of the class II controlled substances to the purchaser;
(ix) The commodity codes of the class II controlled substances reported; and
(x) A written statement from the producer that the class II controlled substances were produced with expended allowances or a written statement from the importer that the class II controlled substances were imported with expended allowances.
(2) The Administrator will review the information and documentation submitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and will issue a notice.
(i) The Administrator will determine the quantity of class II controlled substances that the documentation verifies was exported and issue consumption allowances equivalent to the quantity of class II controlled substances that were exported.
(A) The grant of the consumption allowances will be effective on the date the notice is issued.
(B) The consumption allowances will be granted to the person the exporter indicates, whether it is the producer, the importer, or the exporter.
(ii) The Administrator will issue a notice that the consumption allowances are not granted if the Administrator determines that the information and documentation do not satisfactorily substantiate the exporter's claims.
(b)
International trades of consumption allowances.
(1) A person may increase its consumption allowances for a specified control period through trades with another Party to the Protocol as set forth in this paragraph (b). A person may only receive consumption from Poland or Norway, or both, and only if the nation agrees to trade to the person for the current control period some quantity of consumption that the nation is permitted under the Montreal Protocol.
(2) Trade from a Party—Information requirements. A person must submit the following information to the Administrator:
(i) A signed document from the principal diplomatic representative in the Polish or Norwegian embassy in the U.S. stating that the appropriate authority within that nation will establish or revise consumption limits for the nation to equal the lowest of the following three consumption quantities:
(A) The maximum consumption that the nation is allowed under the Protocol minus the quantity (in kilograms) traded;
(B) The maximum consumption that is allowed under the nation's applicable domestic law minus the quantity (in kilograms) traded; or
(C) The average of the nation's actual consumption level for the three years prior to the trade minus the consumption traded.
(ii) A person requesting a consumption trade from Poland or Norway must also submit to the Administrator a true copy of the document that sets forth the following:
(A) The identity and address of the person;
(B) The identity of the Party;
(C) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the person and for the Party;
(D) The chemical type and quantity (in kilograms) of consumption being traded;
(E) Documentation that the Party possesses the necessary quantity of unexpended consumption rights;
(F) The control period(s) to which the trade applies; and
(3)
Notice of trade.
If the request meets the requirement of paragraph (b)(2) of this section for trades from Parties, the Administrator will issue the person a notice. The notice will grant consumption allowances and specify the control period to which the trade applies. The Administrator may disapprove the trade request if it does not meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4)
Trade from a Party.
The Administrator will issue a notice revising the allowances held by the recipient of the trade to equal the unexpended consumption allowances held by the recipient of the trade under this subpart plus the quantity of allowable consumption traded from the Party.
(5)
Effective date of revised consumption limits.
The change in consumption allowances will be effective on the date that the notice is issued.
[68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 41172, July 20, 2006; 79 FR 64288, Oct. 28, 2014]
§§ 82.21-82.22
[Reserved]
§ 82.23
Transfers of allowances of class II controlled substances.
(a)
Inter-company transfers.
Effective January 1, 2003, a person (“transferor”) may transfer to any other person (“transferee”) any quantity of the transferor's class II consumption allowances, production allowances, export production allowances, or Article 5 allowances for the same type of allowance as follows:
(i) The transferor must submit to the Administrator a transfer claim setting forth the following:
(A) The identities and addresses of the transferor and the transferee;
(B) The name and telephone numbers of contact persons for the transferor and the transferee;
(C) The type of allowances being transferred, including the names of the class II controlled substances for which allowances are to be transferred;
(D) The quantity (in kilograms) of allowances being transferred;
(E) The control period(s) for which the allowances are being transferred;
(F) [Reserved]
(G) For trades of consumption allowances, production allowances, export production allowances, or Article 5 allowances, the quantity of the 0.1 percent offset applied to the unweighted quantity traded that will be deducted from the transferor's allowance balance.
(ii) The Administrator will determine whether the records maintained by EPA indicate that the transferor possesses unexpended allowances sufficient to cover the transfer claim on the date the transfer claim is processed. The transfer claim is the quantity (in kilograms) to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. The Administrator will take into account any previous transfers, any production, and allowable imports and exports of class II controlled substances reported by the transferor. Within three working days of receiving a complete transfer claim, the Administrator will take action to notify the transferor and transferee as follows:
(A) The Administrator will issue a notice indicating that EPA does not object to the transfer if EPA's records
show that the transferor has sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim. In the case of transfers of production or consumption allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. In the case of transfers of export production or Article 5 allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances, respectively, by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. The transferor and the transferee may proceed with the transfer when EPA issues a no objection notice. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and transferee, where applicable, will be held liable for any knowing violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.
(B) The Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the transfer if EPA's records show that the transferor has insufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim, or that the transferor has failed to respond to one or more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a determination. Either party may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the Administrator within 10 working days after receipt of notification. The Administrator may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that day.
(iii) The transferor and transferee may proceed with the transfer if the Administrator does not respond to a transfer claim within the three working days specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. In the case of transfers of production or consumption allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. In the case of transfers of export production allowances or Article 5 allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. If EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and/or the transferee, where applicable, will be held liable for any knowing violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.
(b)
Inter-pollutant transfers.
(1) Effective January 1, 2003, a person (transferor) may convert consumption allowances, production allowances or Article 5 allowances for one class II controlled substance to the same type of allowance for another class II controlled substance listed in appendix B of this subpart, following the procedures described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(i) A person (transferor) may only convert allowances for one class II controlled substance for which EPA has issued allowances under § 82.16 to another class II controlled substance for which EPA has issued allowances under § 82.16.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) Inter-pollutant transfers will be permitted at any time during the control period and during the 30 days after the end of a control period.
(3) The transferor must submit to the Administrator a transfer claim that includes the following:
(i) The identity and address of the transferor;
(ii) The name and telephone number of a contact person for the transferor;
(iii) The type of allowances being converted, including the names of the class II controlled substances for which allowances are to be converted;
(iv) The quantity (in kilograms) and type of allowances to be converted;
(v) The quantity (in kilograms) of allowances to be subtracted from the transferor's unexpended allowances for the first class II controlled substance, to be equal to 100.1 percent of the quantity of allowances converted;
(vi) The quantity (in kilograms) of allowances to be added to the transferee's unexpended allowances for the second class II controlled substance, to be equal to the quantity (in kilograms)
of allowances for the first class II controlled substance being converted multiplied by the quotient of the ozone depletion potential of the first class II controlled substance divided by the ozone depletion potential of the second class II controlled substance, as listed in Appendix B to this subpart;
(vii) The control period(s) for which the allowances are being converted; and
(viii) The quantity (in kilograms) of unexpended allowances of the type and for the control period being converted that the transferor holds under authority of this subpart as of the date the claim is submitted to EPA.
(4) The Administrator will determine whether the records maintained by EPA indicate that the convertor possesses unexpended allowances sufficient to cover the transfer claim on the date the transfer claim is processed (
i.e.,
the quantity (in kilograms) to be converted plus 0.1 percent of that quantity (in kilograms)). EPA will take into account any previous transfers, and any production, imports (not including transshipments or used class II controlled substances), or exports (not including transhipments or used class II controlled substances) of class II controlled substances reported by the convertor. Within three working days of receiving a complete transfer claim, the Administrator will take action to notify the convertor as follows:
(i) The Administrator will issue a notice indicating that EPA does not object to the transfer if EPA's records show that the convertor has sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim. EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be converted plus 0.1 percent of that quantity (in kilograms). When EPA issues a no objection notice, the transferor may proceed with the transfer. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.
(ii) The Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the transfer if EPA's records show that the transferor has insufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim, or that the transferor has failed to respond to one or more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a determination. The transferor may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the Administrator within 10 working days after receipt of notification. The Administrator may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that day.
(iii) The transferor may proceed with the transfer if the Administrator does not respond to a transfer claim within the three working days specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity (in kilograms) to be converted plus 0.1 percent of that quantity (in kilograms). The transferor will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances or credits to cover the claim.
(c)
Inter-company transfers and Inter-pollutant transfers.
If a person requests an inter-company transfer and an inter-pollutant transfer simultaneously, the quantity (in kilograms) subtracted from the transferor's unexpended production or consumption allowances for the first class II controlled substance will be equal to 100.1 percent of the quantity (in kilograms) of allowances that are being converted and transferred.
(d)
Permanent transfers.
The procedures in paragraph (a) of this section apply to permanent inter-company transfers of baseline production allowances or baseline consumption allowances. A person receiving a permanent transfer of baseline production allowances or baseline consumption allowances (the transferee) for a specific class II controlled substance will be the person who has their baseline allowances adjusted in accordance with phaseout schedules in this subpart. No person may conduct permanent inter-
pollutant transfers of baseline production allowances or baseline consumption allowances.
[68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003, as amended at 78 FR 20028, Apr. 3, 2013; 85 FR 15298, Mar. 17, 2020]
§ 82.24
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements for class II controlled substances.
(a)
Recordkeeping and reporting.
Any person who produces, imports, exports, transforms, or destroys class II controlled substances must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:
(1) Reports required by this section must be submitted to the Administrator within 45 days of the end of the applicable reporting period, unless otherwise specified. Starting May 18, 2020, reports that are available for submission through the Central Data Exchange or another format specified by EPA must be submitted electronically through that tool.
(2) Revisions of reports that are required by this section must be mailed to the Administrator within 180 days of the end of the applicable reporting period, unless otherwise specified.
(3) Records and copies of reports required by this section must be retained for three years.
(4) Quantities of class II controlled substances must be stated in terms of kilograms in reports required by this section.
(5) Reports and records required by this section may be used for purposes of compliance determinations. These requirements are not intended as a limitation on the use of other evidence admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence. Failure to provide the reports, petitions and records required by this section and to certify the accuracy of the information in the reports, petitions and records required by this section, will be considered a violation of this subpart. False statements made in reports, petitions and records will be considered violations of Section 113 of the Clean Air Act and under 18 U.S.C. 1001.
(b)
Producers.
Persons (“producers”) who produce class II controlled substances during a control period must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:
(1)
Reporting—Producers.
For each quarter, each producer of a class II controlled substance must provide the Administrator with a report containing the following information:
(i) The quantity (in kilograms) of production of each class II controlled substance used in processes resulting in their transformation by the producer and the quantity (in kilograms) intended for transformation by a second party;
(ii) The quantity (in kilograms) of production of each class II controlled substance used in processes resulting in their destruction by the producer and the quantity (in kilograms) intended for destruction by a second party;
(iii) The expended allowances for each class II controlled substance;
(iv) [Reserved]
(v) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances sold or transferred during the quarter to a person other than the producer for use in processes resulting in their transformation or eventual destruction;
(vi) A list of the quantities and names of class II controlled substances, exported by the producer to a Party to the Protocol, that will be transformed or destroyed and therefore were not produced expending production or consumption allowances;
(vii) For transformation in the U.S. or by a person of another Party, one copy of a transformation verification from the transformer for a specific class II controlled substance and a list of additional quantities shipped to that same transformer for the quarter;
(viii) For destruction in the U.S. or by a person of another Party, one copy of a destruction verification as required in paragraph (e) of this section for a particular destroyer, destroying the same class II controlled substance, and a list of additional quantities shipped to that same destroyer for the quarter; and
(ix) [Reserved]
(x) In cases where the producer produced class II controlled substances using Article 5 allowances, a list of U.S. entities that purchased those class
II controlled substances and exported them to Article 5 countries.
(2)
Recordkeeping—Producers.
Every producer of a class II controlled substance during a control period must maintain the following records:
(i) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of each class II controlled substance produced at each facility;
(ii) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances produced for use in processes that result in their transformation or for use in processes that result in their destruction;
(iii) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances sold for use in processes that result in their transformation or for use in processes that result in their destruction;
(iv) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances produced with Article 5 allowances;
(v) Copies of invoices or receipts documenting sale of class II controlled substances for use in processes that result in their transformation or for use in processes that result in their destruction;
(vi) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of each class II controlled substance used at each facility as feedstocks or destroyed in the manufacture of a class II controlled substance or in the manufacture of any other substance, and any class II controlled substance introduced into the production process of the same class II controlled substance at each facility;
(vii) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of raw materials and feedstock chemicals used at each facility for the production of class II controlled substances;
(viii) Dated records of the shipments of each class II controlled substance produced at each plant;
(ix) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances, the date received, and names and addresses of the source of used materials containing class II controlled substances which are recycled or reclaimed at each plant;
(x) Records of the date, the class II controlled substance, and the estimated quantity of any spill or release of a class II controlled substance that equals or exceeds 100 pounds;
(xi) Transformation verification in the case of transformation, or the destruction verification in the case of destruction as required in paragraph (e) of this section showing that the purchaser or recipient of a class II controlled substance, in the U.S. or in another country that is a Party, certifies the intent to either transform or destroy the class II controlled substance, or sell the class II controlled substance for transformation or destruction in cases when allowances were not expended; and
(xii) [Reserved]
(xiii) Written verifications from a U.S. purchaser that the class II controlled substance was exported to an Article 5 country in cases where Article 5 allowances were expended to produce the class II controlled substance.
(3) For any person who fails to maintain the records required by this paragraph, or to submit the report required by this paragraph, the Administrator may assume that the person has produced at full capacity during the period for which records were not kept, for purposes of determining whether the person has violated the prohibitions at § 82.15.
(c)
Importers.
Persons (“importers”) who import class II controlled substances during a control period must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:
(1)
Reporting—Importers.
For each quarter, an importer of a class II controlled substance (including importers of used class II controlled substances) must submit to the Administrator a report containing the following information:
(i) Summaries of the records required in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (xvi) of this section for the previous quarter;
(ii) The total quantity (in kilograms) imported of each class II controlled substance for that quarter;
(iii) The commodity code for the class II controlled substances imported, which must be one of those listed in appendix K to this subpart;
(iv) The quantity (in kilograms) of those class II controlled substances imported that are used class II controlled substances;
(v) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances imported for that quarter and totaled by chemical for the control period to date;
(vi) [Reserved]
(vii) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances imported for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction;
(viii) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances sold or transferred during that quarter to each person for use in processes resulting in their transformation or eventual destruction; and
(ix) Transformation verifications showing that the purchaser or recipient of imported class II controlled substances intends to transform those substances or destruction verifications showing that the purchaser or recipient intends to destroy the class II controlled substances (as provided in paragraph (e) of this section).
(2)
Recordkeeping—Importers.
An importer of a class II controlled substance (including used class II controlled substances) must maintain the following records:
(i) The quantity (in kilograms) of each class II controlled substance imported, either alone or in mixtures, including the percentage of each mixture which consists of a class II controlled substance;
(ii) The quantity (in kilograms) of those class II controlled substances imported that are used and the information provided with the petition where a petition is required under paragraph (c)(3) of this section;
(iii) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances other than transhipments or used substances imported for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction;
(iv) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances other than transhipments or used substances imported and sold for use in processes that result in their destruction or transformation;
(v) The date on which the class II controlled substances were imported;
(vi) The port of entry through which the class II controlled substances passed;
(vii) The country from which the imported class II controlled substances were imported;
(viii) The commodity code for the class II controlled substances shipped, which must be one of those listed in appendix K to this subpart;
(ix) The importer number for the shipment;
(x) A copy of the bill of lading for the import;
(xi) The invoice for the import;
(xii) The quantity (in kilograms) of imports of used class II controlled substances;
(xiii) The U.S. Customs entry number;
(xiv) Dated records documenting the sale or transfer of class II controlled substances for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction; and
(xv) Copies of transformation verifications or destruction verifications indicating that the class II controlled substances will be transformed or destroyed (as provided in paragraph (e) of this section).
(3)
Petition to import used class II controlled substances and transhipment-Importers.
For each individual shipment over 5 pounds of a used class II controlled substance as defined in § 82.3 for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances, an importer must submit directly to the Administrator, at least 40 working days before the shipment is to leave the foreign port of export, the following information in a petition:
(i) The name, commodity code and quantity (in kilograms) of the used class II controlled substance to be imported;
(ii) The name and address of the importer, the importer ID number, the contact person, email address, and phone number;
(iii) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of all previous source facilities from which the used class II controlled substance was recovered;
(iv) A detailed description of the previous use of the class II controlled substance at each source facility and a
best estimate of when the specific controlled substance was put into the equipment at each source facility, and, when possible, documents indicating the date the material was put into the equipment;
(v) A list of the name, make and model number of the equipment from which the material was recovered at each source facility;
(vi) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the exporter and of all persons to whom the material was transferred or sold after it was recovered from the source facility;
(vii) The U.S. port of entry for the import, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the chemical. If at the time of submitting a petition the importer does not know the U.S. port of entry, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the chemical, and the importer receives a non-objection notice for the individual shipment in the petition, the importer is required to notify the Administrator of this information prior to the actual U.S. Customs entry of the individual shipment;
(viii) A description of the intended use of the used class II controlled substance, and, when possible, the name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the ultimate purchaser in the United States;
(ix) The name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the U.S. reclamation facility, where applicable;
(x) If someone at the source facility recovered the class II controlled substance from the equipment, the name, email address, and phone number of that person;
(xi) If the imported class II controlled substance was reclaimed in a foreign Party, the name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of any or all foreign reclamation facility(ies) responsible for reclaiming the cited shipment;
(xii) The export license, application for an export license, or official communication acknowledging the export from the appropriate government agency in the country of export and, if recovered in another country, the export license or official communication from the appropriate government agency in that country, and quantity authorized for export in kilograms on the export license, and an English translation of these documents;
(xiii) If the imported used class II controlled substance is intended to be sold as a refrigerant in the United States, the name, address, and email address of the EPA-certified U.S. reclaimer who will bring the material to the standard required under subpart F of this part, if not already reclaimed to those specifications; and
(xiv) A certification of accuracy of the information submitted in the petition.
(4)
Review of petition to import used class II controlled substances and transhipments—Importers.
Starting on the first working day following receipt by the Administrator of a petition to import a used class II controlled substance, the Administrator will initiate a review of the information submitted under paragraph (c)(3) of this section and take action within 40 working days to issue either an objection-notice or a non-objection notice for the individual shipment to the person who submitted the petition to import the used class II controlled substance.
(i) The Administrator may issue an objection notice to a petition for the following reasons:
(A) If the Administrator determines that the information is insufficient, that is, if the petition lacks or appears to lack any of the information required under paragraph (c)(3) of this section or other information that may be requested during the review of the petition necessary to verify that the controlled substance is used;
(B) If the Administrator determines that any portion of the petition contains false or misleading information, or the Administrator has information from other U.S. or foreign government agencies indicating that the petition contains false or misleading information;
(C) If the transaction appears to be contrary to provisions of the Vienna Convention on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, the Montreal Protocol and Decisions by the Parties, or
the non-compliance procedures outlined and instituted by the Implementation Committee of the Montreal Protocol;
(D) If the appropriate government agency in the exporting country has not agreed to issue an export license for the cited individual shipment of used class II controlled substance;
(E) If reclamation capacity is installed or is being installed for that specific class II controlled substance in the country of recovery or country of export and the capacity is funded in full or in part through the Multilateral Fund.
(ii) Within ten (10) working days after receipt of the objection notice, the importer may re-petition the Administrator, only if the Administrator indicated “insufficient information” as the basis for the objection notice. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after the date on the objection notice, the objection shall become final. Only one re-petition will be accepted for any original petition received by EPA.
(iii) Any information contained in the re-petition which is inconsistent with the original petition must be identified and a description of the reason for the inconsistency must accompany the re-petition.
(iv) In cases where the Administrator does not object to the petition based on the criteria listed in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, the Administrator will issue a non-objection notice.
(v) To pass the approved used class II controlled substances through U.S. Customs, the non-objection notice issued by EPA must accompany the shipment through U.S. Customs.
(vi) If for some reason, following EPA's issuance of a non-objection notice, new information is brought to EPA's attention which shows that the non-objection notice was issued based on false information, then EPA has the right to:
(A) Revoke the non-objection notice;
(B) Pursue all means to ensure that the class II controlled substance is not imported into the U.S.; and
(C) Take appropriate enforcement actions.
(vii) A person receiving the non-objection notice is permitted to import the individual shipment only within one year of the date stamped on the non-objection notice.
(viii) A person receiving a non-objection notice from the Administrator for a petition to import used class II controlled substances must maintain the following records:
(A) A copy of the petition;
(B) The EPA non-objection notice;
(C) The bill of lading for the import; and
(D) The U.S. Customs entry number.
(5) Recordkeeping for transhipments—Importers. Any person who tranships a class II controlled substance must maintain records that indicate:
(i) That the class II controlled substance shipment originated in a foreign country;
(ii) That the class II controlled substance shipment is destined for another foreign country; and
(iii) That the class II controlled substance shipment will not enter interstate commerce within the U.S.
(6)
Certification of intent to import for destruction.
For each individual shipment of a class II controlled substance imported with the intent to destroy that substance, an importer must submit electronically to the Administrator, at least 30 working days before the shipment is to leave the foreign port of export, the following information:
(i) Name, commodity code, and quantity in kilograms of each controlled substance to be imported;
(ii) Name and address of the importer, the importer ID number, and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;
(iii) Name and address of any intermediary who aggregates controlled substances imported for destruction, and the contact person's name, email address, and phone number;
(iv) The U.S. port of entry for the import, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the material. If at the time of submitting the certification of intent to import for destruction the importer does not know the U.S. port of entry, the expected date of shipment and the vessel transporting the material, and the importer receives
a non-objection notice for the individual shipment in the petition, the importer is required to notify the Administrator of this information prior to the entry of the individual shipment into the United States;
(v) Name, address, contact person, email address, and phone number of the responsible party at the destruction facility;
(vi) The export license, application for an export license, or official communication acknowledging the export from the appropriate government agency in the country of export and, if recovered in another country, the export license or official communication from the appropriate government agency in that country, and quantity authorized for export in kilograms on the export license, and an English translation of these documents; and
(vii) A certification of accuracy of the information submitted in the certification.
(7)
Destruction verification.
For each individual shipment of a class II controlled substance imported with the intent to destroy that substance, an importer must submit to the Administrator a copy of the destruction verification within 30 days after destruction of the controlled substance(s).
(8)
Review of certification of intent to import for destruction.
(i) Starting on the first working day following receipt by the Administrator of a certification of intent to import a class II controlled substance for destruction, the Administrator will initiate a review of the information submitted under paragraph (c)(6) of this section and take action within 30 working days to issue either an objection notice or a non-objection notice for the individual shipment to the person who submitted the certification of intent to import the class II controlled substance for destruction.
(ii) The Administrator may issue an objection notice if the petition lacks or appears to lack any of the information required under paragraph (c)(6) of this section or for the reasons listed in paragraphs (c)(4)(i)(B) through (E) of this section.
(iii) In cases where the Administrator does not object to the petition, the Administrator will issue a non-objection notice.
(iv) To pass the approved class II controlled substances through U.S. Customs, the non-objection notice issued by EPA must accompany the shipment through U.S. Customs.
(v) If for some reason, following EPA's issuance of a non-objection notice, new information is brought to EPA's attention which shows that the non-objection notice was issued based on false information, then EPA has the right to:
(A) Revoke the non-objection notice;
(B) Pursue all means to ensure that the class II controlled substance is not imported into the United States; and
(C) Take appropriate enforcement actions.
(9)
Timing of import.
A person receiving the non-objection notice is permitted to import the individual shipment only within one year of the date stamped on the non-objection notice.
(10)
Additional recordkeeping requirements—importers of used, recycled, or reclaimed controlled substances.
A person receiving a non-objection notice from the Administrator for a certification of intent to import class II controlled substances for destruction must maintain the following records:
(i) A copy of the certificate of intent to import for destruction;
(ii) The EPA non-objection notice;
(iii) A copy of the export license, export license application, or official communication from the appropriate government agency in the country of export;
(iv) U.S. Customs entry documents for the import that must include one of the commodity codes from appendix K to this subpart;
(v) The date, amount, and type of controlled substance sent for destruction, per shipment;
(vi) An invoice from the destruction facility verifying the shipment was received;
(vii) A copy of the destruction verification from the destruction facility; and
(viii) An English translation of the document in paragraph (c)(10)(iii) of this section.
(11)
Recordkeeping requirements-aggregators.
A person identified in paragraph (c)(6)(iii) of this section as aggregating a controlled substance prior to destruction must:
(i) Maintain transactional records that include the name and address of the entity from whom they received the controlled substance imported for destruction;
(ii) Maintain transactional records that include the name and address of the entity to whom they sent the controlled substance imported for destruction;
(iii) Maintain records that include the date and quantity of the imported controlled substance received for destruction;
(iv) Maintain records that include the date and quantity of the imported controlled substance sent for destruction; and
(v) If the person is the final aggregator of such a controlled substance before the material is destroyed, maintain a copy of the destruction verification.
(d)
Exporters.
Persons (“exporters”) who export class II controlled substances during a control period must comply with the following reporting requirements:
(1)
Reporting requirements—exporters.
For any exports of class II controlled substances not reported under paragraph (b)(2) of this section (reporting for producers of class II controlled substances), each exporter who exported a class II controlled substance must submit to the Administrator the following information within 30 days after the end of each quarter in which the unreported exports left the United States:
(i) The names and addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the exports;
(ii) The exporter's Employer Identification Number;
(iii) The type and quantity of each class II controlled substance exported, including the quantity of controlled substance that is used, reclaimed, or recycled;
(iv) The date on which, and the port from which, the class II controlled substances were exported from the U.S. or its territories;
(v) The country to which the class II controlled substances were exported;
(vi) The quantity (in kilograms) exported to each Article 5 country;
(vii) The commodity code for the class II controlled substances shipped, which must be one of those listed in appendix K to this subpart;
(viii) For persons reporting transformation or destruction, the invoice or sales agreement containing language similar to the transformation verifications that the purchaser or recipient of imported class II controlled substances intends to transform those substances, or destruction verifications showing that the purchaser or recipient intends to destroy the class II controlled substances (as provided in paragraph (e) of this section).
(2) [Reserved]
(3)
Reporting Article 5 allowances—Exporters.
In addition to the information required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, any exporter using Article 5 allowances must also provide the following to the Administrator:
(i) The Employer Identification Number of the shipper or their agent; and
(ii) The exporting vessel on which the class II controlled substances were shipped.
(4)
Reporting used class II controlled substances—Exporters.
Any exporter of used class II controlled substances must indicate on the bill of lading or invoice that the class II controlled substance is used, as defined in § 82.3.
(e)
Transformation and destruction.
Any person who transforms or destroys class II controlled substances must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:
(1)
Recordkeeping—Transformation and destruction.
Any person who transforms or destroys class II controlled substances produced or imported by another person must maintain the following:
(i) Copies of the invoices or receipts documenting the sale or transfer of the class II controlled substances to the person;
(ii) Records identifying the producer or importer of the class II controlled substances received by the person;
(iii) Dated records of inventories of class II controlled substances at each plant on the first day of each quarter;
(iv) Dated records of the quantity (in kilograms) of each class II controlled substance transformed or destroyed;
(v) In the case where class II controlled substances were purchased or transferred for transformation purposes, a copy of the person's transformation verification as provided under paragraph (e)(3)of this section.
(vi) Dated records of the names, commercial use, and quantities (in kilograms) of the resulting chemical(s) when the class II controlled substances are transformed; and
(vii) Dated records of shipments to purchasers of the resulting chemical(s) when the class II controlled substances are transformed.
(viii) In the case where class II controlled substances were purchased or transferred for destruction purposes, a copy of the person's destruction verification, as provided under paragraph (e)(5) of this section.
(2)
Reporting—Transformation and destruction.
Any person who transforms or destroys class II controlled substances and who has submitted a transformation verification ((paragraph (e)(3) of this section) or a destruction verification (paragraph (e)(5) of this section) to the producer or importer of the class II controlled substances, must report the following:
(i) The names and quantities (in kilograms) of the class II controlled substances transformed for each control period within 45 days of the end of such control period; and
(ii) The names and quantities (in kilograms) of the class II controlled substances destroyed for each control period within 45 days of the end of such control period.
(3)
Reporting—Transformation.
Any person who purchases class II controlled substances for purposes of transformation must provide the producer or importer with a transformation verification that the class II controlled substances are to be used in processes that result in their transformation.
(i) The transformation verification shall include the following:
(A) Identity and address of the person intending to transform the class II controlled substances;
(B) The quantity (in kilograms) of class II controlled substances intended for transformation;
(C) Identity of shipments by purchase order number(s), purchaser account number(s), by location(s), or other means of identification;
(D) Period of time over which the person intends to transform the class II controlled substances; and
(E) Signature of the verifying person.
(ii) [Reserved]
(4)
Reporting—Destruction.
Any person who destroys class II controlled substances shall provide EPA with a one-time report containing the following information:
(i) The destruction unit's destruction efficiency;
(ii) The methods used to record the volume destroyed;
(iii) The methods used to determine destruction efficiency;
(iv) The name of other relevant federal or state regulations that may apply to the destruction process;
(v) Any changes to the information in paragraphs (e)(4)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section must be reflected in a revision to be submitted to EPA within 60 days of the change(s).
(5)
Reporting—Destruction.
Any person who purchases or receives and subsequently destroys class II controlled substances that were originally produced without expending allowances shall provide the producer or importer from whom it purchased or received the class II controlled substances with a verification that the class II controlled substances will be used in processes that result in their destruction.
(i) The destruction verification shall include the following:
(A) Identity and address of the person intending to destroy class II controlled substances;
(B) Indication of whether those class II controlled substances will be completely destroyed, as defined in § 82.3, or less than completely destroyed, in which case the destruction efficiency at which such substances will be destroyed must be included;
(C) Period of time over which the person intends to destroy class II controlled substances; and
(D) Signature of the verifying person.
(ii) [Reserved]
(f)
Heels-Recordkeeping and reporting.
Any person who brings into the U.S. a rail car, tank truck, or ISO tank containing a heel, as defined in § 82.3, of class II controlled substances, must take the following actions:
(1) Indicate on the bill of lading or invoice that the class II controlled substance in the container is a heel.
(2) Report within 30 days of the end of the control period the quantity (in kilograms) brought into the U.S. and certify:
(i) That the residual quantity (in kilograms) in each shipment is no more than 10 percent of the volume of the container;
(ii) That the residual quantity (in kilograms) in each shipment will either:
(A) Remain in the container and be included in a future shipment;
(B) Be recovered and transformed;
(C) Be recovered and destroyed; or
(D) Be recovered for a non-emissive use.
(3) Report on the final disposition of each shipment within 30 days of the end of the control period.
(g)
Process agents.
Any entity that uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent must comply, in addition to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 82.25, with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements for each facility that uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent:
(1)
Reporting—one-time report.
By February 7, 2025, or within 120 days of the date that an entity first uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent, whichever is later, any entity that uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent must submit to the Administrator a report containing the following information for each use of a class II controlled substance as a process agent:
(i) The name and address of each facility and plant, and each responsible person's name, email address, and phone number;
(ii) The name, purpose, and final product manufactured of each process agent application that uses a class II controlled substance;
(iii) The start-up date of each facility and the start-up date of each plant that uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent;
(iv) For each facility, the names and amounts of each product and byproduct manufactured in the process agent application during the previous control period, including amounts destroyed or used as a feedstock;
(v) For each facility, the total air, fugitive air, and stack point air emissions of class II controlled substances used as a process agent during the previous control period;
(vi) For each facility, a description of technologies currently being used and actions taken or currently under evaluation to minimize use or emissions of class II controlled substances used as process agents (including estimated emissions reductions associated with each); and
(vii) For each facility, a description that includes details of the percentages of class II controlled substances used as a process agent and:
(A) Retained within the process agent application;
(B) Consumed in the process agent application;
(C) Recovered after the process agent application;
(D) Emitted; and
(E) Entrained in the final product.
(2)
Annual reports.
Any entity that uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent must provide by February 14 of each year an annual report for the previous control period containing the following information for each use of the class II controlled substance as a process agent:
(i) For each facility, contact information including email address and phone number for a primary and alternate contact person;
(ii) For each facility, the name and amount of each class II controlled substance initially introduced into the process agent application for use as a process agent, specified independently for paragraphs (g)(2)(ii)(A) through (G) of this section by whether the class II controlled substance was:
(A) Obtained as virgin;
(B) Obtained as used;
(C) Produced by the entity;
(D) Purchased from a U.S. producer;
(E) Imported;
(F) Reclaimed by the entity from a different use; and
(G) Reclaimed by another entity;
(iii) For each facility, the name and amount of each class II controlled substance used as a process agent and reused or recycled for use by the entity for continued use in the same process agent application at the same facility;
(iv) For each facility, the name and amount of each class II controlled substance used as a process agent that was ultimately:
(A) Transformed;
(B) Reused or recycled for use in a different process agent application; or
(C) Destroyed by approved destruction technologies;
(v) For each facility, the total air, fugitive air, and stack point air emissions of each class II controlled substance used as a process agent;
(vi) For each facility, the names and amounts of each product and byproduct manufactured in the process agent application during the previous control period, including amounts destroyed or used as a feedstock;
(vii) For each facility, a description of emission reduction actions for class II controlled substances used as a process agent taken since the last one-time or annual report, planned, or currently under evaluation; and
(viii) For each entity, any process agent application changes anticipated to result in increases for the next annual report, as compared to the previous control period and the average of the three previous control periods, of the following magnitude must be specified in a report submitted to EPA at least 180 days prior to implementing the change:
(A) Greater than 20 percent of the amount of class II controlled substance initially introduced for use as a process agent; or
(B) At least one metric ton and 20 percent of the amount emitted during use as a process agent.
(3)
Recordkeeping.
Every entity who uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent during a control period must maintain the following records, as applicable:
(i) Dated records of the quantity of each class II controlled substance initially introduced at each facility into the process application for use as a process agent;
(ii) Dated records of the quantity of each class II controlled substance produced at each facility for use as a process agent;
(iii) Records identifying the producer or importer of the class II controlled substance received at each facility for use as a process agent by the entity;
(iv) For each facility, copies of the invoices or receipts documenting the sale or other transfer of ownership of each class II controlled substance for use as a process agent to the entity;
(v) Dated records identifying the quantity of each product manufactured within each facility by using a class II controlled substance as a process agent;
(vi) For each facility, records of the date and the estimated quantity of any spill or release of each class II controlled substance used as a process agent that equals or exceeds 100 pounds;
(vii) For each facility, a description of the methodology used to measure and calculate emissions, and dated records of equipment parameters, measured data, supporting calculations, and other rationale used to validate reported emission quantities;
(viii) For each facility, dated records of the quantity of each class II controlled substance used as a process agent which is subsequently transformed or destroyed;
(ix) In the case where class II controlled substances used as a process agent were ultimately transformed by an entity other than the entity which last used the class II controlled substances as a process agent, a copy of the entity's transformation verification as provided under paragraph (e)(3) of this section; and
(x) In the case where class II controlled substances used as a process agent were ultimately destroyed by an entity other than the entity which last used the class II controlled substances as a process agent, a copy of the entity's destruction verification, as provided under paragraph (e)(5) of this section.
(4)
Request for extension.
Any entity that uses a class II controlled substance as a process agent may request
an extension to comply with paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(i) This request must include the following information:
(A) Name of the facility submitting the request, contact information for a person at the facility, and the address of the facility;
(B) An explanation of the reasons that an extension is necessary and the timeline that would be practicable; and
(C) Supporting documentation of the circumstances.
(ii) The Administrator will review the request and, within five working days of receiving a complete request, provide notification of whether the request is granted and when the report is due.
(5)
Notification that use has ceased.
Reports are no longer required for process agent use starting in the year after an entity notifies the Administrator that they have permanently ceased use of all class II controlled substances as a process agent, but the entity must continue to comply with all applicable recordkeeping requirements.
[68 FR 2848, Jan. 21, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 41172, July 20, 2006; 81 FR 6768, Feb. 9, 2016; 85 FR 15298, Mar. 17, 2020; 89 FR 82432, Oct. 10, 2024]
§ 82.25
Emissions of controlled substances from industrial sources.
(a)
Source applicability.
The requirements specified in this section apply to every entity which engages in any of the following activities:
(1) Use of a controlled substance as a process agent.
(2) [Reserved]
(b)
Emissions of controlled substances to report.
Every entity that engages in any activity listed in paragraph (a) of this section must report, for each applicable facility, emissions of the controlled substances in paragraph (b)(1) of this section from the processes listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(1)
Emissions of controlled substances.
For purposes of reporting emissions under this section, the term “controlled substance” applies to the following controlled substances:
(i) Each controlled substance used as a process agent.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2)
Processes.
For purposes of this section, the term “process” applies to the following activities:
(i) Each activity listed in paragraph (a) of this section;
(ii) Each separation process for the reuse or recycling of the controlled substance;
(iii) Each transformation process of the controlled substance, where the controlled substance is produced at the facility and used in processes resulting in its transformation at the same facility;
(iv) Each transformation process of the controlled substance at the facility, where one or more of the controlled substances transformed at the facility is produced at another facility; and
(v) Each destruction process of the controlled substance.
(c)
Calculating emissions for controlled substances.
For every activity listed in paragraph (a) of this section, each entity must calculate emissions of the controlled substances from each process using the emission factor, emission calculation factor, or mass balance method specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section, as appropriate. The mass balance method may only be used for batch operations without on-site production or transformation of controlled substances. For destruction processes that destroy controlled substances, the entity must calculate emissions using the procedures in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(1)
Emission factor and emission calculation factor methods.
To use the method in this paragraph (c)(1) for batch processes, each entity must use the methods in either paragraph (c)(1)(iii) (Emission Factor approach) or (iv) (Emission Calculation Factor approach) of this section. To use the method in this paragraph (c)(1) for continuous processes, the entity must first make a preliminary estimate of the emissions from each individual continuous process vent under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. If the entity's continuous process operates under different conditions as part of normal operations, that entity must also define the different operating scenarios and make a preliminary estimate of the
emissions from the vent for each operating scenario. Then, compare the preliminary estimate for each continuous process vent (summed across operating scenarios) to the criteria in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section to determine whether the process vent meets the criteria for using the emission factor method described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section or whether the process vent meets the criteria for using the emission calculation factor method described in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. For continuous process vents that meet the criteria for using the emission factor method described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section and that have more than one operating scenario, compare the preliminary estimate for each operating scenario to the criteria in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(B) of this section to determine whether an emission factor must be developed for that operating scenario.
(i)
Preliminary estimate of emissions by process vent.
Each entity must estimate the annual emissions of the controlled substance for each process vent within each operating scenario of a continuous process using the approaches specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section, accounting for any destruction as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section. The entity must determine emissions of controlled substances by process vent by using measurements, by using calculations based on chemical engineering principles and chemical property data, or by conducting an engineering assessment. The entity may use previously conducted measurements, calculations, or assessments if they represent current process operating conditions or process operating conditions that would result in higher controlled substance emissions than the current operating conditions and if they were performed in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, as applicable. The entity must document all data, assumptions, and procedures used in the calculations or engineering assessment and keep a record of the emissions determination as required by paragraph (f)(1)
of this section.
(A)
Engineering calculations.
For process vent emission calculations, each entity may use any of paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A)(
1
), (
2
), or (
3
) of this section.
(
1
) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Emission Inventory Improvement Program, Volume II: Chapter 16, Methods for Estimating Air Emissions from Chemical Manufacturing Facilities, August 2007, Final (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).
(
2
) Each entity may determine the controlled substance emissions from any process vent within the process using the procedures specified in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i) and (d)(3)(i)(B) of this chapter, except as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A)(
2
)(
i
) through (
iv
) of this section. For the purposes of this section, use of the term “HAP” in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i) and (d)(3)(i)(B) of this chapter means “controlled substance.”
(
i
) To calculate emissions caused by the heating of a vessel without a process condenser to a temperature lower than the boiling point, each entity must use the procedures in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i)(C)(
3
) of this chapter.
(
ii
) To calculate emissions from depressurization of a vessel without a process condenser, each entity must use the procedures in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i)(D)(
10
) of this chapter.
(
iii
) To calculate emissions from vacuum systems, the terms used in equation 33 to § 63.1257(d)(2)(i)(E) of this chapter are defined as follows. P
system
means the absolute pressure of the receiving vessel. P
i
means the partial pressure of the controlled substance determined at the exit temperature and exit pressure conditions of the condenser or at the conditions of the dedicated receiver. P
j
means the partial pressure of condensables (including controlled substances) determined at the exit temperature and exit pressure conditions of the condenser or at the conditions of the dedicated receiver. MW
controlled substance
means the molecular weight of the controlled substance determined at the exit temperature and exit pressure conditions of the condenser or at the conditions of the dedicated receiver.
(
iv
) To calculate emissions when a vessel is equipped with a process condenser or a control condenser, each entity must use the procedures in
§ 63.1257(d)(3)(i)(B) of this chapter, except as follows. Each entity must determine the flow rate of gas (or volume of gas), partial pressures of condensables, temperature (T), and controlled substance molecular weight (MW
controlled substance
) at the exit temperature and exit pressure conditions of the condenser or at the conditions of the dedicated receiver. Each entity must assume that all of the components contained in the condenser exit vent stream are in equilibrium with the same components in the exit condensate stream (except for noncondensables). Each entity must perform a material balance for each component, if the condensate receiver composition is not known. For the emissions from purging, the term for time, t, must be used in equation 12 to § 63.1257(d)(2)(i)(B) of this chapter. Emissions from empty vessel purging must be calculated using equation 36 to § 63.1257(d)(2)(i)(H) of this chapter and the exit temperature and exit pressure conditions of the condenser or the conditions of the dedicated receiver.
(
3
) Commercial software products that follow chemical engineering principles (
e.g.,
including the calculation methodologies in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section).
(B)
Engineering assessments.
For process vent emissions determinations, each entity may conduct an engineering assessment to calculate uncontrolled emissions. An engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(
1
) Previous test results, provided the tests are representative of current operating practices of the process.
(
2
) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process operating conditions.
(
3
) Maximum flow rate, controlled substance emission rate, concentration, or other relevant parameters specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the process vent.
(
4
) Design analysis based on chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties.
(C)
Impact of destruction for the preliminary estimate.
If the process vent is vented to a destruction unit, each entity may reflect the impact of the destruction unit on emissions. In the emissions estimate, account for the following:
(
1
) The demonstrated destruction efficiencies of the device for the controlled substance in the vent stream for periods when the destruction device is in use.
(
2
) Any periods when the process vent is not vented to the destruction unit.
(D)
Use of typical recent values.
In the calculations in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section, the values used for the expected process activity and for the expected fraction of that activity, whose emissions will be vented to the properly functioning destruction unit, must be based on either typical recent values for the process or values that overestimate emissions from the process, unless there is a compelling reason to adopt a different value (
e.g.,
installation of a destruction unit for a previously uncontrolled process). If there is such a reason, it must be documented in the monitoring plan.
(ii)
Method selection for continuous process vents.
(A) Based on the calculations under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, as well as any subsequent measurements and calculations under this section, rank the process vents based on controlled substance emissions, upstream of any destruction unit, summed across all operating scenarios, from largest to smallest estimated annual emissions of controlled substances. The continuous process vents that comprise the top quartile of estimated annual emissions of controlled substances must use the method in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section (Emission Factor approach). The process vent emissions will be based on the past 3 years for the ranking analysis.
(B) The remaining continuous process vents that comprise the bottom three quartiles of estimated annual emissions of controlled substances may use either the emission factor method specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section (Emission Factor approach) or a method specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section (Emission Calculation Factor approach).
(
1
) Each entity must conduct emission testing for process-vent-specific
emission factor development upstream of the destruction unit.
(
2
) The emission testing for process-vent-specific emission factor development may be conducted on the outlet side of a wet scrubber in place for acid gas reduction, if there is no appreciable reduction in the controlled substance by the wet scrubber.
(iii)
Process-vent-specific emission factor method.
For each process vent, each entity must conduct an emission test according to the procedures in paragraph (d) of this section and measure the process activity, such as the feed rate, production rate, or other process activity rate, during the test as described in this paragraph (c)(1)(iii). All emissions test data and procedures used in developing emission factors must be documented according to paragraph (f) of this section. If more than one operating scenario applies to the process that contains the subject process vent, each entity must use the method in either paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section.
(A) Conduct a separate emissions test for operation under each operating scenario.
(B) Conduct an emissions test for the operating scenario that is expected to have the largest emissions of controlled substances (considering both activity levels and emission calculation factors) on an annual basis. Also conduct an emissions test for each additional operating scenario for which the emission calculation factor differs by 15 percent or more from the emission calculation factor of the operating scenario that is expected to have the largest emissions(or of another operating scenario for which emission testing is performed), unless the difference between the operating scenarios is solely due to the application of a destruction unit to emissions under one of the operating scenarios. For any other operating scenarios, adjust the process-vent specific emission factor developed for the operating scenario that is expected to have the largest emissions (or for another operating scenario for which emission testing is performed) using the approach in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(G) of this section.
(C) Each entity must measure the process activity, such as the process feed rate, process production rate, or other process activity rate, as applicable, during the emissions test and calculate the rate for the test period, in kg (or another appropriate metric) per hour.
(D) For continuous processes, each entity must calculate the hourly emission rate of each controlled substance using equation 1 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(D) and determine the hourly emission rate of each controlled substance per process vent (and per operating scenario, as applicable) for the test run.

# Equation 1 to Paragraph
(c)(1)(iii)(D)
ER10OC24.000
Where:
E
ContPV
= Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, during the emission test during test run r (kg/hr).
C
PV
= Concentration of controlled substance p during test run r of the emission test (ppmv).
MW = Molecular weight of controlled substance p (g/g-mole).
Q
PV
= Flow rate of the process vent stream during test run r of the emission test (m3/min).
SV = Standard molar volume of gas (0.0240 m
3
/g-mole at 68 °F and 1 atm).
1/10
3
= Conversion factor (1 kilogram/1,000 grams).
60/1 = Conversion factor (60 minutes/1 hour).
(E) Each entity must calculate a site-specific, process-vent-specific emission factor for each controlled substance for each process vent and each operating scenario, in kg of controlled substance per process activity rate (e.g., kg of feed or production), as applicable, using equation 2 to this paragraph
(c)(1)(iii)(E). For continuous processes, divide the hourly controlled substance emission rate during the test by the hourly process activity rate during the test runs.

# Equation 2 to Paragraph
(c)(1)(iii)(E)
ER10OC24.001
Where:
EF
PV
= Emission factor for controlled substance p emitted from process vent v during process i, operating scenario j (e.g., kg emitted/kg activity).
E
PV
= Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, during the emission test during test run r, for either continuous or batch (kg emitted/hr for continuous, kg emitted/batch for batch).
Activity
EmissionTest
= Process feed, process production, or other process activity rate for process i, operating scenario j, during the emission test during test run r (e.g., kg product/hr).
r = Number of test runs performed during the emission test.
(F) If emissions testing is conducted upstream of the destruction unit, apply the destruction efficiencies of the device that have been demonstrated for the controlled substance in the vent stream to the controlled substance emissions for the process vent (and operating scenario, as applicable), using equation 3 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(F). Each entity may apply the destruction efficiency only to the portion of the process activity during which emissions are vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (
i.e.,
controlled).

# Equation 3 to Paragraph
(c)(1)(iii)(F)
E
PV
=
EF
PV-U
* (
Activity
u
+
Activity
c
* (1−
DE
))
Where:
E
PV
= Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, for the year, considering destruction efficiency (kg).
EF
PV-U
= Emission factor (uncontrolled) for controlled substance p emitted from process vent v during process i, operating scenario j (kg emitted/kg product).
Activity
U
= Total process feed, process production, or other process activity for process i, operating scenario j, during the year for which the process vent is not vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (
e.g.,
kg product).
Activity
C
= Total process feed, process production, or other process activity for process i, operating scenario j, during the year for which the process vent is vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (e.g., kg product).
DE = Demonstrated destruction efficiency of the destruction unit (weight fraction).
(G) For process vents from processes with multiple operating scenarios, use equation 4 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(G) to develop an adjusted process-vent-specific emission factor for each operating scenario whose emission calculation factor differs by less than 15 percent from the emission calculation factor of the operating scenario that is expected to have the largest emissions (or of another operating scenario for which emission testing is performed).

# Equation 4 to Paragraph
(c)(1)(iii)(G)
ER10OC24.002
Where:
EF
PVadj
= Adjusted process-vent-specific emission factor for an untested operating scenario.
ECF
UT
= Emission calculation factor for the untested operating scenario developed under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
ECF
T
= Emission calculation for the tested operating scenario developed under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
EF
PV
= Process vent specific emission factor for the tested operating scenario.
(H) Sum the emissions of each controlled substance from all process vents in each operating scenario and all operating scenarios in the process for the year to estimate the total process vent emissions of each controlled substance from the process, using equation 5 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(H).

# Equation 5 to Paragraph
(c)(1)(iii)(H)
ER10OC24.003
Where:
E
Ppi
= Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vents for process i for the year (kg).
E
PV
= Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, for the year, considering destruction efficiency (kg).
v = Number of process vents in process i, operating scenario j.
o = Number of operating scenarios for process i.
(iv)
Process-vent-specific emission calculation factor method.
For each process vent within an operating scenario, determine controlled substances emissions by calculations and determine the process activity rate, such as the feed rate, production rate, or other process activity rate, associated with the emission rate.
(A) Each entity must calculate uncontrolled emissions of controlled substances by individual process vent, E
PV
, by using measurements, by using calculations based on chemical engineering principles and chemical property data, or by conducting an engineering assessment. Use the procedures in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section, except paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B)(
3
) of this section. The procedures in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section may be applied either to batch process vents or to continuous process vents. The uncontrolled emissions must be based on a typical batch or production rate under a defined operating scenario. The process activity rate associated with the uncontrolled emissions must be determined. The methods, data, and assumptions used to estimate emissions for each operating scenario must be selected to yield a best estimate (expected value) of emissions rather than an over- or underestimate of emissions for that operating scenario. All data, assumptions, and procedures used in the calculations or engineering assessment must be documented according to paragraph (f) of this section.
(B) Each entity must calculate a site-specific, process-vent-specific emission calculation factor for each process vent each operating scenario, and each controlled substance, in kg of controlled substance per activity rate (e.g., kg of feed or production) as applicable, using equation 6 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(B).

# Equation 6 to Paragraph
(c)(1)(iv)(B)
ER10OC24.004
Where:
ECF
PV
= Emission calculation factor for controlled substance p emitted from process vent v during process i, operating scenario j (e.g., kg emitted/kg product).
E
PV
= Average mass of controlled substance p emitted, based on calculations, from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, during the period or batch for which emissions were calculated, for either continuous or batch (kg emitted/hr for continuous, kg emitted/batch for batch).
Activity Representative = Process feed, process production, or other process activity rate corresponding to average mass of emissions based on calculations (e.g., kg product/hr for continuous, kg product/batch for batch).
(C) Each entity must calculate emissions of each controlled substance for the process vent (and for each operating scenario, as applicable) for the year by multiplying the process-vent-specific emission calculation factor by the total process activity, as applicable, for the year, using equation 7 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C).

# Equation 7 to Paragraph
(c)(1)(iv)(C)
E
PV
=
ECF
PV
*
Activity
Where:
E
PV
= Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, for the year (kg).
ECF
PV
= Emission calculation factor for controlled substance p emitted from process vent v during process i, operating scenario j (kg emitted/activity) (
e.g.,
kg emitted/kg product).
Activity = Process feed, process production, or other process activity for process i, operating scenario j, during the year.
(D) If the process vent is vented to a destruction unit, apply the demonstrated destruction efficiency of the device to the controlled substance emissions for the process vent (and operating scenario, as applicable), using equation 8 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(D). Apply the destruction efficiency only to the portion of the process activity that is vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (
i.e.,
controlled).

# Equation 8 to Paragraph
(c)(1)(iv)(D)
E
PV
=
ECF
PV
* (
Activity
u
+
Activity
c
* (1−DE))
Where:
E
PV
= Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, for the year considering destruction efficiency (kg).
ECF
PV
= Emission calculation factor for controlled substance p emitted from process vent v during process i, operating scenario j (
e.g.,
kg emitted/kg product).
Activity
U
= Total process feed, process production, or other process activity for process i, operating scenario j, during the year for which the process vent is not vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (
e.g.,
kg product).
Activity
C
= Total process feed, process production, or other process activity for process i, operating scenario j, during the year for which the process vent is vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (e.g., kg product).
DE = Demonstrated destruction efficiency of the destruction unit (weight fraction).
(E) Sum the emissions of each controlled substance from all process vents in each operating scenario and all operating scenarios in the process for the year to estimate the total process vent emissions of each controlled substance from the process, using equation 9 to this paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(E).

# Equation 9 to Paragraph
(c)(1)(iv)(E)
ER10OC24.005
Where:
E
Ppi
= Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vents for process i for the year (kg).
E
PV
= Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, for the year, considering destruction efficiency (kg).
v = Number of process vents in process i, operating scenario j.
o = Number of operating scenarios in process i.
(2)
Calculate emissions for equipment leaks (EL).
If activity is covered under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, each entity must calculate the emissions from pieces of equipment associated with processes covered under this section. If conducting monitoring of equipment in controlled substance service, monitoring must be conducted for those in light liquid and in gas and vapor service. If conducting monitoring of equipment in controlled substance service, the entity may exclude from monitoring each piece of equipment that is difficult-to-monitor, that is unsafe-to-monitor, that is insulated, or that is in heavy liquid service; the entity may exclude from monitoring each pump with dual mechanical seals, agitator with dual mechanical seals, pump with no external shaft, agitator with no external shaft; the entity may exclude from monitoring each pressure relief device in gas and vapor service with upstream rupture disk, each sampling connection system with closed-loop or closed-purge systems, and any pieces of equipment where leaks are routed through a closed vent system to a destruction unit. The entity must estimate emissions using another approach for those pieces of equipment excluded from monitoring. Equipment that is in controlled substance service for less than 300 hr/yr, equipment that is in vacuum service, pressure relief devices that are in light liquid service, and instrumentation systems are exempted from the requirements in this paragraph (c)(2).
(i) The emissions from equipment leaks must be calculated using any of the procedures in paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section.
(A)
Use of Average Emission Factor Approach in EPA protocol for equipment leak emission estimates.
The emissions from equipment leaks may be calculated using the default Average Emission Factor Approach in EPA-453/R-95-017 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).
(B)
Use of Other Approaches in EPA protocol for equipment leak emission estimates in conjunction with EPA Method 21.
The emissions from equipment leaks may be calculated using one of the following methods in EPA-453/R-95-017 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27): The Screening Ranges Approach; the EPA Correlation Approach; or the Unit-Specific Correlation Approach. If it is determined that EPA Method 21 in appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 is appropriate for monitoring a controlled substance, and if the instrument is calibrated with a compound different from one or more of the controlled substances or surrogates to be measured, each entity must develop response factors for each controlled substance or for each surrogate to be measured using EPA Method 21. For each controlled substance or surrogate measured, the response factor must be less than 10. The response factor is the ratio of the known concentration of a controlled substance or surrogate to the observed meter reading when measured using an instrument calibrated with the reference compound.
(C)
Use of Other Approaches in EPA protocol for equipment leak emission estimates in conjunction with site-specific leak monitoring methods.
The emissions from equipment leaks may be calculated using one of the following
methods in EPA-453/R-95-017 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27): The Screening Ranges Approach; the EPA Correlation Approach; or the Unit-Specific Correlation Approach. Each entity may develop a site-specific leak monitoring method appropriate for monitoring controlled substances or surrogates to use along with these three approaches. The site-specific leak monitoring method must meet the requirements in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section.
(D)
Use of site-specific leak monitoring methods.
The emissions from equipment leaks may be calculated using a site-specific leak monitoring method. The site-specific leak monitoring method must meet the requirements in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section.
(ii) Each entity must collect information on the number of each type of equipment, the service of each piece of equipment (gas, light liquid, heavy liquid), the concentration of each controlled substance in the stream, and the time period each piece of equipment was in service (
e.g.,
hours per year). Depending on which approach followed, the entity may be required to collect information for equipment on the associated screening data concentrations for greater than or equal to 10,000 ppmv and associated screening data concentrations for less than 10,000 ppmv; associated actual screening data concentrations; or associated screening data and leak rate data (
i.e.,
bagging) used to develop a unit-specific correlation.
(iii) Calculate and sum the emissions of each controlled substance in kilograms per year for equipment pieces for each process, E
ELp
, annually. Each entity must include and estimate emissions for types of equipment that are excluded from monitoring, including difficult-to-monitor, unsafe-to-monitor and insulated pieces of equipment, pieces of equipment in heavy liquid service, pumps with dual mechanical seals, agitators with dual mechanical seals, pumps with no external shaft, agitators with no external shaft, pressure relief devices in gas and vapor service with upstream rupture disk, sampling connection systems with closed-loop or closed purge systems, and pieces of equipment where leaks are routed through a closed vent system to a destruction unit.
(3)
Calculate total controlled substance emissions for each process and for production or transformation processes at the facility.
(i) Estimate annually the total mass of each controlled substance emitted from each process, including emissions from process vents in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section, as appropriate, and from equipment leaks in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, using equation 10 to this paragraph (c)(3)(i).

# Equation 10 to Paragraph
(c)(3)(i)
E
i
=
E
Ppi
+
E
ELpi
Where:
E
i
= Total mass of each controlled substance p emitted from process i, annual basis (kg/year).
E
Ppi
= Mass of controlled substance p emitted from all process vents and all operating scenarios in process i, annually (kg/year, calculated in equation 5 or 9 to this section, as appropriate).
E
ELpi
= Mass of controlled substance p emitted from equipment leaks for pieces of equipment for process i, annually (kg/year, calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section).
(ii) Estimate annually the total mass of each controlled substance emitted at the facility from each applicable process listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section using equation 11 to this paragraph (c)(3)(ii). Develop separate totals for each applicable process listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

# Equation 11 to Paragraph
(c)(3)(ii)
ER10OC24.006
Where:
E = Total mass of each controlled substance p emitted from all processes listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, as appropriate (kilograms).
E
i
= Total mass of each controlled substance p emitted from each process listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, annual basis (kg/year, calculated in equation 10 to paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section).
z = Total number of processes listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, as appropriate.
(4)
Mass balance method.
Before using the mass balance approach to estimate your controlled substance emissions from a process, you must ensure that the process and the equipment and methods used to measure the process meet either the error limits described in this paragraph (c)(4) and calculated under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section or the requirements specified in paragraph (d)(4)(viii) of this section. If you choose to calculate the error limits, you must estimate the absolute and relative errors associated with using the mass balance approach on that process using equations 12 through 15 to this section in conjunction with equations 16 through 21 to this section. You may use the mass-balance approach to estimate emissions from the process if this calculation results in an absolute error of less than or equal to one metric ton of controlled substance per year or a relative error of less than or equal to 10 percent of the estimated controlled substance emissions. If you do not meet either of the error limits or the requirements of paragraph (d)(4)(viii) of this section, you must use the emission factor approach detailed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section to estimate emissions from the process.
(i) To perform the calculation, you must first calculate the absolute and relative errors associated with the quantities calculated using either equations 18 through 21 to this section or equation 28 to paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section. Alternatively, you may estimate these errors based on the variability of previous process measurements (
e.g.,
the variability of measurements of stream concentrations), provided these measurements are representative of the current process and current measurement devices and techniques. Once errors have been calculated for the quantities in these equations, those errors must be used to calculate the errors in equations 16 and 17 to this section. You may omit the errors associated with equations 22 through 24 to this section.
(A) Where the measured quantity is a mass, the error in the mass must be equated to the accuracy or precision (whichever is larger) of the flowmeter, scale, or combination of volumetric and density measurements at the flow rate or mass measured.
(B) Where the measured quantity is a concentration of a stream component, the error of the concentration must be equated to the accuracy or precision (whichever is larger) with which you estimate the mean concentration of that stream component, accounting for the variability of the process, the frequency of the measurements, and the accuracy or precision (whichever is larger) of the analytical technique used to measure the concentration at the concentration measured. If the variability of process measurements is used to estimate the error, this variability shall be assumed to account both for the variability of the process and the precision of the analytical technique. Use standard statistical techniques such as the student's t distribution to estimate the error of the mean of the concentration measurements as a function of process variability and frequency of measurement.
(C) Equation 12 to this paragraph (c)(4)(i)(C) provides the general formula for calculating the absolute errors of sums and differences where the sum, S, is the summation of variables measured, a, b, c, etc. (
e.g.,
S = a + b + c).

# Equation 12 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(i)(C)
e
SA
= [(
a
*
e
a
)
2
+ (
b
*
e
b
)
2
+ (
c
*
e
c
)
2
]
1/2
Where:
e
SA
= Absolute error of the sum, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.
e
a
= Relative error of a, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.
e
b
= Relative error of b, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.
e
c
= Relative error of c, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.
(D) Equation 13 to this paragraph (c)(4)(i)(D) provides the general formula for calculating the relative errors of sums and differences.

# Equation 13 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(i)(D)
ER10OC24.007
Where:
e
SR
= Relative error of the sum, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.
e
SA
= Absolute error of the sum, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.
a+b+c = Sum of the variables measured.
(E) Equation 14 to this paragraph (c)(4)(i)(E) provides the general formula for calculating the absolute errors of products (
e.g.,
flow rates of controlled substances calculated as the product of the flow rate of the stream and the concentration of the controlled substance in the stream), where the product, P, is the result of multiplying the variables measured, a, b, c, etc. (
e.g.,
P = a*b*c).

# Equation 14 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(i)(E)
e
PA
= (
a
*
b
*
c
)(
e
2
a
+
e
2
b
+
e
2
c
)
1/2
Where:
e
PA
= Absolute error of the product, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.
e
a
= Relative error of a, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.
e
b
= Relative error of b, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.
e
c
= Relative error of c, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.
(F) Equation 15 to this paragraph (c)(4)(i)(F) provides the general formula for calculating the relative errors of products.

# Equation 15 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(i)(F)
ER10OC24.008
Where:
e
PR
= Relative error of the product, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.
e
PA
= Absolute error of the product, expressed as one half of a 95 percent confidence interval.
a*b*c = Product of the variables measured.
(G) Calculate the absolute error of the controlled substance emissions estimate by performing a preliminary estimate of the annual controlled substance emissions of the process using the method in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(H) of this section. Multiply this result by the relative error calculated for the mass of halogen emitted from the process in equation 15 to paragraph (c)(4)(i)(F) of this section.
(H) To estimate the annual controlled substance emissions of the process for use in the error estimate, apply the methods set forth in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii) through (vii) and (ix) through (xvi) of this section to representative process measurements. If these process measurements represent less than one year of typical process activity, adjust the estimated emissions to account for one year of typical process activity. To estimate the terms FERd, FEP, and FEBk for use in the error estimate for equations 22, 23, and 24 to this section, you must either use emission testing, monitoring of emitted streams, and/or engineering calculations or assessments.
(ii) The total mass of each controlled substance emitted annually from each controlled substance process must be estimated by using equation 16 to this paragraph (c)(4)(ii).

# Equation 16 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(ii)
ER10OC24.009
Where:
E
Contp
= Total mass of each controlled substance p emitted annually from process i (metric tons).
E
Rp
-F
Contp
= Total mass of controlled substance reactant p emitted from production process i over the period t (metric tons, calculated in equation 22 to paragraph (c)(4)(ix) of this section).
E
Pp
-F
Contp
= Total mass of the controlled substance product p emitted from production process i over the period t (metric tons, calculated in equation 23 to paragraph (c)(4)(x) of this section).
E
Bp
-F
Contp
= Total mass of controlled substance byproduct p emitted from production process i over the period t (metric tons, calculated in equation 24 to paragraph (c)(4)(xi) of this section).
n = Number of concentration and flow measurement periods for the year.
(iii) The total mass of halogen emitted from process i over the period t must be estimated at least monthly by calculating the difference between the total mass of halogen in the reactant(s) (or inputs, for processes that do not involve a chemical reaction) and the total mass of halogen in the product (or outputs, for processes that do not involve a chemical reaction), accounting for the total mass of halogen in any destroyed or recaptured streams that contain reactants, products, or byproducts (or inputs or outputs). This calculation must be performed using equation 17 to this paragraph (c)(4)(iii). An element other than a halogen may be used in the mass-balance equation, provided the element occurs in all of the controlled substances fed into or generated by the process. In this case, the mass fractions of the element in the reactants, products, and byproducts must be calculated as appropriate for that element.

# Equation 17 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(iii)
ER10OC24.010
Where:
E
H
= Total mass of halogen emitted from process i over the period t (metric tons).
R
d
= Total mass of the halogen-containing reactant d that is fed into process i over the period t (metric tons).
P = Total mass of the halogen-containing product produced by process i over the period t (metric tons).
MFH
Rd
= Mass fraction of halogen in reactant d, calculated in equation 25 to paragraph (c)(4)(xii) of this section.
MFH
P
= Mass fraction of halogen in the product, calculated in equation 26 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiii) of this section.
F
D
= Total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams from process i containing halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts over the period t, calculated in equation 18 to paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section.
v = Number of halogen-containing reactants fed into process i.
(iv) The mass of total halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams containing halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts must be estimated at least monthly using equation 18 to this paragraph (c)(4)(iv) unless you use the alternative approach provided in paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section.

# Equation 18 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(iv)
ER10OC24.011
Where:
F
D
= Total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams from process i containing halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts over the period t.
P
j
= Mass of the halogen-containing product removed from process i in stream j and destroyed over the period t (calculated in equation 19 or 20 to this section).
B
kj
= Mass of halogen-containing byproduct k removed from process i in stream j and destroyed over the period t (calculated in equation 19 or 20 to this section).
B
kl
= Mass of halogen-containing byproduct k removed from process i in stream l and recaptured over the period t.
R
dj
= Mass of halogen-containing reactant d removed from process i in stream j and destroyed over the period t (calculated in equation 19 or 20 to this section).
MFH
Rd
= Mass fraction of halogen in reactant d, calculated in equation 25 to paragraph (c)(4)(xii) of this section.
MFH
P
= Mass fraction of halogen in the product, calculated in equation 26 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiii) of this section.
MFH
Bk
= Mass fraction of halogen in byproduct k, calculated in equation 27 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiv) of this section.
q = Number of streams destroyed in process i.
x = Number of streams recaptured in process i.
u = Number of halogen-containing byproducts generated in process i.
v = Number of halogen-containing reactants fed into process i.
(v) The mass of each controlled substance removed from process i in stream j and destroyed over the period t (
i.e.,
P
j
, B
kj
, or R
dj
, as applicable) must be estimated by applying the destruction efficiency of the device that has been demonstrated for the controlled substance p to controlled substance f using equation 19 to this paragraph (c)(4)(v).

# Equation 19 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(v)
MF
contpj
=
DE
Contp
*
C
contrpj
* S
j
Where:
MF
Contpj
= Mass of controlled substance p removed from process i in stream j and destroyed over the period t. (This may be P
j
, B
kj
, or R
dj
, as applicable.)
DE
Contp
= Destruction efficiency of the device that has been demonstrated for controlled substance p in stream j (fraction).
C
Contpj
= Concentration (mass fraction) of controlled substance p in stream j removed
from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t. If this concentration is only a trace concentration, c
Contrpj
is equal to zero.
Sj = Mass removed in stream j from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t (metric tons).
(vi) The mass of each halogen-containing compound that is not a controlled substance and that is removed from process i in stream j and destroyed over the period t (
i.e.,
P
j
, B
kj
, or R
dj
, as applicable) must be estimated using equation 20 to this paragraph (c)(4)(vi).

# Equation 20 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(vi)
M
hcgj
=
C
HCgj
*
S
j
Where:
M
HCgj
= Mass of non-controlled substance halogen-containing compound g removed from process i in stream j and destroyed over the period t. (This may be P
j
, B
kj
, or R
dj
, as applicable.)
C
HCgj
= Concentration (mass fraction) of non-controlled substance halogen-containing compound g in stream j removed from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t. If this concentration is only a trace concentration, c
HCgj
is equal to zero.
S
j
= Mass removed in stream j from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t (metric tons).
(vii) The mass of halogen-containing byproduct k removed from process i in stream l and recaptured over the period t must be estimated using equation 21 to this paragraph (c)(4)(vii).

# Equation 21 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(vii)
B
kl
=
C
Bkl
*
S
l
Where:
B
kl
= Mass of halogen-containing byproduct k removed from process i in stream l and recaptured over the period t (metric tons).
c
Bkl
= Concentration (mass fraction) of halogen-containing byproduct k in stream l removed from process i and recaptured over the period t. If this concentration is only a trace concentration, c
Bkl
is equal to zero.
S
l
= Mass removed in stream l from process i and recaptured over the period t (metric tons).
(viii) To estimate the terms FERd, FEP, and FEBk for equations 22, 23, and 24 to this section, you must account for the total mass of halogen emitted, EF, estimated in equation 17 to paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section. These emission characterization measurements must meet the requirements in paragraph (c)(4)(viii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, as appropriate. The sum of the terms must equal 1. You must document the data and calculations that are used to speciate individual compounds and to estimate FERd, FEP, and FEBk. Exclude from your calculations the halogen included in FD. For example, exclude halogen-containing compounds that are not controlled substances and that result from the destruction of controlled substances by any destruction devices (e.g., the mass of HF created by combustion of a chlorofluorocarbon). However, include emissions of controlled substance that survive the destruction process.
(A) If the calculations under paragraph (b)(1)(viii) of this section, or any subsequent measurements and calculations under this subpart, indicate that the process emits 0.1 metric tons controlled substance or more, estimate the emissions from each process vent, considering controls, using the methods in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. You must characterize the emissions of any process vent that emits 0.1 metric tons controlled substance or more as specified in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section.
(B) For other vents, including vents from processes that emit less than 0.1 metric tons of controlled substance, you must characterize emissions as specified in paragraph (d)(4)(v) of this section.
(C) For halogen emissions that are not accounted for by vent estimates, you must characterize emissions as specified in paragraph (d)(4)(vi) of this section.
(ix) The total mass of halogen-containing reactant d emitted must be estimated at least monthly based on the total halogen emitted and the fraction that consists of halogen-containing reactants using equation 22 to this paragraph (c)(4)(ix). If the halogen-containing reactant d is not a controlled substance, you may assume that FER
d
is zero.

# Equation 22 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(ix)
ER10OC24.012
Where:
E
R-it
= Total mass of halogen-containing reactant d that is emitted from process i over the period t (metric tons).
FER
d
= The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of the halogen-containing reactant d.
E
H
= Total mass of halogen emissions from process i over the period t (metric tons), calculated in equation 17 to paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section.
FEP = The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of the halogen-containing product.
FEB
k
= The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of halogen-containing byproduct k.
MFF
Rd
= Mass fraction of halogen in reactant d, calculated in equation 25 to paragraph (c)(4)(xii) of this section.
MFH
P
= Mass fraction of halogen in the product, calculated in equation 26 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiii) of this section.
MFH
Bk
= Mass fraction of halogen in byproduct k, calculation in equation 27 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiv) of this section.
u = Number of halogen-containing byproducts generated in process i.
v = Number of halogen-containing reactants fed into process i.
(x) The total mass of halogen-containing product emitted must be estimated at least monthly based on the total halogen emitted and the fraction that consists of halogen-containing products using equation 23 to this paragraph (c)(4)(x). If the halogen-containing product is not a controlled substance, you may assume that FEP is zero.

# Equation 23 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(x)
ER10OC24.013
Where:
E
P-it
= Total mass of halogen-containing product emitted from process i over the period t (metric tons).
FEP = The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of the halogen-containing product.
E
H
= Total mass of halogen emissions from process i over the period t (metric tons), calculated in equation 17 to paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section.
FER
d
= The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of halogen-containing reactant d.
FEB
k
= The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of halogen-containing byproduct k.
MFH
Rd
= Mass fraction of halogen in reactant d, calculated in equation 25 to paragraph (c)(4)(xii) of this section.
MFH
P
= Mass fraction of halogen in the product, calculated in equation 26 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiii) of this section.
MFH
Bk
= Mass fraction of halogen in byproduct k, calculation in equation 27 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiv) of this section.
u = Number of halogen-containing byproducts generated in process i.
v = Number of halogen-containing reactants fed into process i.
(xi) The total mass of halogen-containing byproduct k emitted must be estimated at least monthly based on the total halogen emitted and the fraction that consists of halogen-containing byproducts using equation 24 to this paragraph (c)(4)(xi). If halogen-containing byproduct k is not a controlled substance, you may assume that FEB
k
is zero.

# Equation 24 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(xi)
ER10OC24.014
Where:
E
Bk-it
= Total mass of halogen-containing byproduct k emitted from process i over the period t (metric tons).
FEB
k
= The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of halogen-containing byproduct k.
FER
d
= The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of halogen-containing reactant d.
FEP = The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of the halogen-containing product.
E
H
= Total mass of halogen emissions from process i over the period t (metric tons), calculated in equation 17 to paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section.
MFH
Rd
= Mass fraction of halogen in reactant d, calculated in equation 25 to paragraph (c)(4)(xii) of this section.
MFH
P
= Mass fraction of halogen in the product, calculated in equation 26 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiii) of this section.
MFH
Bk
= Mass fraction of halogen in byproduct k, calculation in equation 27 to paragraph (c)(4)(xiv) of this section.
u = Number of halogen-containing byproducts generated in process i.
v = Number of halogen-containing reactants fed into process i.
(xii) The mass fraction of halogen in reactant d must be estimated using equation 25 to this paragraph (c)(4)(xii).

# Equation 25 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(xii)
ER10OC24.015
Where:
MFHRd = Mass fraction of halogen in reactant d (fraction).
MHRd = Moles halogen per mole of reactant d.
AWH = Atomic weight of halogen.
MWRd = Molecular weight of reactant d.
(xiii) The mass fraction of halogen in the product must be estimated using equation 26 to this paragraph (c)(4)(xiii).

# Equation 26 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(xiii)
ER10OC24.016
Where:
MFH
P
= Mass fraction of halogen in the product (fraction).
MH
P
= Moles halogen per mole of product.
AW
H
= Atomic weight of halogen.
MW
P
= Molecular weight of the product produced.
(xiv) The mass fraction of each applicable halogen in byproduct k must be estimated using equation 27 to this paragraph (c)(4)(xiv).

# Equation 27 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(xiv)
ER10OC24.017
Where:
MFHBk = Mass fraction of halogen in the product (fraction).
MHBk = Moles halogen per mole of byproduct k.
AWH = Atomic weight of halogen.
MWBk = Molecular weight of byproduct k.
(xv) As an alternative to using equation 18 to paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, you may estimate at least monthly the total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams containing halogen-containing compounds (including all halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts) using equation 28 to this paragraph (c)(4)(xv).

# Equation 28 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(xv)
ER10OC24.018
Where:
F
D
= Total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams from process i containing halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts over the period t.
DE
avgj
= Weighted average destruction efficiency of the destruction device for the halogen-containing compounds identified in destroyed stream j under paragraphs (d)(4)(iv)(B) and (d)(4)(v)(B) of this section (calculated in equation 28 to this paragraph (c)(4)(xv)) (fraction).
c
THj
= Concentration (mass fraction) of total halogen in stream j removed from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t. If this concentration is only a trace concentration, c
THj
is equal to zero.
S
j
= Mass removed in stream j from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t (metric tons).
c
THl
= Concentration (mass fraction) of total halogen in stream l removed from process i and recaptured over the period t. If this concentration is only a trace concentration, c
Bkl
is equal to zero.
S
l
= Mass removed in stream l from process i and recaptured over the period t.
q = Number of streams destroyed in process i.
x = Number of streams recaptured in process i.
(xvi) For purposes of equation 28 to paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section, calculate the weighted average destruction efficiency applicable to a destroyed stream using equation 29 to this paragraph (c)(4)(xvi).

# Equation 29 to Paragraph
(c)(4)(xvi)
ER10OC24.019
Where:
DE
avgj
= Weighted average destruction efficiency of the destruction device for the halogen-containing compounds identified in destroyed stream j under paragraph (d)(4)(iv)(B) or (d)(4)(v)(B) of this section, as appropriate.
DE
Contp
= Destruction efficiency of the device that has been demonstrated for controlled substance p in stream j (fraction).
c
Contpj
= Concentration (mass fraction) of controlled substance p in stream j removed from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t. If this concentration is only a trace concentration, c
Contpj
is equal to zero.
c
HCgj
= Concentration (mass fraction) of non-controlled substance halogen-containing compound g in stream j removed from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t. If this concentration is only a trace concentration, c
HCgj
is equal to zero.
S
j
= Mass removed in stream j from process i and fed into the destruction device over the period t (metric tons).
MFH
Contp
= Mass fraction of halogen in controlled substance p, calculated in equation 25, 26, or 27 to this section, as appropriate.
MFH
HCg
= Mass fraction of halogen in non-controlled substance halogen-containing compound g, calculated in equation 25, 26, or 27 to this section, as appropriate.
w = Number of controlled substances in destroyed stream j.
y = Number of non-controlled substance halogen-containing compounds in destroyed stream j.
(5)
Calculate controlled substance emissions from destruction of controlled substances.
Estimate annually the total mass of controlled substances emitted
annually from destruction of controlled substances using equation 30 to this paragraph (c)(5):

# Equation 30 to Paragraph
(c)(5)
E
D
= RE
D
* (1−
DE
)
Where:
E
D
= The mass of controlled substances emitted annually from destruction of controlled substances (kilograms).
RE
D
= The mass of controlled substances that are fed annually into the destruction unit (kilograms).
DE = Destruction efficiency of the destruction unit (fraction).
(6)
Effective destruction efficiency for each process.
If using the emission factor or emission calculation factor method to calculate emissions from the process, use equation 31 to this paragraph (c)(6) to calculate the effective destruction efficiency for the process, including each process vent:

# Equation 31 to Paragraph
(c)(6)
ER10OC24.020
Where:
DE
Effective
= Effective destruction efficiency for process i (fraction).
E
PVp
= Mass of controlled substance p emitted from process vent v from process i, operating scenario j, for the year, calculated in equation 3, 7, or 8 to this section (kg).
ECF
PV-Up
= Emission calculation factor for controlled substance p emitted from process vent v during process i, operating scenario j, as used in equation 7 or 8 to this section (kg emitted/activity) (e.g., kg emitted/kg product), denoted as “ECF
PV
” in those equations.
EF
PV-Up
= Emission factor (uncontrolled) for controlled substance p emitted from process vent v during process i, operating scenario j, as used in equation 3 to paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(F) of this section (kg emitted/activity) (
e.g.,
kg emitted/kg product), denoted as “EF
PV-U
” in that equation.
Activity
U
= Total process feed, process production, or other process activity for process i, operating scenario j during the year, for which the process vent is not vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (
i.e.,
uncontrolled).
Activity
C
= Total process feed, process production, or other process activity for process i, operating scenario j during the year, for which emissions are vented to the properly functioning destruction unit (
i.e.,
controlled).
o = Number of operating scenarios for process i.
v = Number of process vents in process i, operating scenario j.
w = Number of controlled substances emitted from the process.
(d)
Monitoring and QA/QC requirements
—(1)
Initial scoping speciation to identify controlled substances from transformation processes.
Each entity that transforms controlled substances must conduct an initial scoping speciation to identify all controlled substances that may be generated or emitted from transformation processes that are subject to this section. The entity is not required to quantify emissions under this initial scoping speciation. Only controlled substance products and byproducts that occur in greater than trace concentrations in at least one stream must be identified under this paragraph (d)(1).
(i)
Procedure.
To conduct the scoping speciation, select the stream(s) (including process streams or destroyed streams) or process vent(s) that would be expected to individually or collectively contain all of the controlled substance byproducts of the process at their maximum concentrations and sample and analyze the contents of these selected streams or process vents. For example, if controlled substance byproducts are separated into one low-boiling-point and one high-boiling-point stream, sample and analyze both of these streams. Alternatively, each entity may sample and analyze streams where controlled substance byproducts occur at less than their maximum concentrations, but the entity must ensure that the sensitivity of the analysis is sufficient to
compensate for the expected difference in concentration. For example, if the entity samples and analyzes streams where controlled substance byproducts are expected to occur at one half their maximum concentrations elsewhere in the process, that entity must ensure that the sensitivity of the analysis is sufficient to detect controlled substance byproducts that occur at concentrations of 0.05 percent or higher. The entity does not have to sample and analyze every stream or process vent,
i.e.,
the entity does not have to sample and analyze a stream or process vent that contains only controlled substances that are contained in other streams or process vents that are being sampled and analyzed. Sampling and analysis must be conducted according to the procedures in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(ii)
Previous measurements.
If testing of streams (including process streams or destroyed streams) or process vents were conducted less than 5 years before November 12, 2024, and the testing meets the requirements in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, each entity may use the previous testing to satisfy this requirement.
(2)
Emission factor testing.
If controlled substance emissions are determined using the site-specific process-vent-specific emission factor, each entity must meet the requirements in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i)
Process vent testing.
Conduct an emissions test that is based on representative performance of the process or operating scenario(s) of the process, as applicable. For process vents for which each entity performed an initial scoping speciation, include in the emission test any controlled substance that was identified in the initial scoping speciation. For process vents for which the entity did not perform an initial scoping speciation, include in the emission test any controlled substance that occurs in more than trace concentrations in the vent stream or, where a destruction unit is used, in the inlet to the destruction unit. The entity may include startup and shutdown events if the testing is sufficiently long or comprehensive to ensure that such events are not overrepresented in the emission factor. Malfunction events must not be included in the testing. If the entity does not detect a controlled substance that was identified in the scoping speciation or that occurs in more than trace concentrations in the vent stream or in the inlet to the destruction unit, assume that controlled substance was emitted from the process vent, or from the destruction unit, at a concentration of one third of the detection limit.
(ii)
Number of runs.
For continuous processes, sample the process vent for a minimum of three runs of 1 hour each. If the relative standard deviation (RSD) of the emission factor calculated based on the first three runs is greater than or equal to 0.15 for the emission factor, continue to sample the process vent for an additional three runs of 1 hour each.
(iii)
Process activity measurements.
Determine the mass rate of process feed, process production, or other process activity as applicable during the test using flow meters, weigh scales, or other measurement devices or instruments with an accuracy and precision of ±1 percent of full scale or better. These devices may be the same plant instruments or procedures that are used for accounting purposes (such as weigh hoppers, belt weigh feeders, combination of volume measurements and bulk density, etc.) if these devices or procedures meet the requirement. For monitoring ongoing process activity, use flow meters, weigh scales, or other measurement devices or instruments with an accuracy and precision of ±1 percent of full scale or better.
(iv)
Sample each process.
If process vents from separate processes are manifolded together to a common vent or to a common destruction unit, each entity must follow paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.
(A) Each entity may sample emissions from each process in the ducts upstream from the point where the emissions are combined.
(B) Each entity may sample in the common duct or at the outlet of the destruction unit when only one process is operating.
(C) Each entity may sample the combined emissions and use engineering
calculations and assessments as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section to allocate the emissions to each manifolded process vent, provided the sum of the calculated controlled substance emissions across the individual process vents is within 20 percent of the total controlled substance emissions measured during the manifolded testing.
(v)
Emission test results.
The results of an emission test must include the analysis of samples, number of test runs, the results of the RSD analysis, the analytical method used, determination of emissions, the process activity, and raw data and must identify the process, the operating scenario, the process vents tested, and the controlled substances that were included in the test. The emissions test report must contain all information and data used to derive the process-vent-specific emission factor, as well as key process conditions during the test. Key process conditions include those that are normally monitored for process control purposes and may include but are not limited to yields, pressures, temperatures, etc. (
e.g.,
of reactor vessels, distillation columns).
(vi)
Emissions testing frequency.
Each entity must conduct emissions testing to develop the process-vent-specific emission factor under paragraph (d)(2)(vi)(A) or (B) of this section, whichever occurs first:
(A)
5-year revision.
Conduct an emissions test every 5 years. In the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section, apply the revised process-vent-specific emission factor to the process activity that occurs after the revision.
(B)
Operating scenario change that affects the emission factor.
For planned operating scenario changes, each entity must estimate and compare the emission calculation factors for the changed operating scenario and for the original operating scenario whose process vent specific emission factor was measured. Use the calculation methods in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. If the emission calculation factor for the changed operating scenario is 15 percent or more different from the emission calculation factor for the previous operating scenario (this includes the cumulative change in the emission calculation factor since the most recent emissions test), the entity must conduct an emissions test to update the process-vent-specific emission factor, unless the difference between the operating scenarios is solely due to the application of a destruction unit to emissions under the changed operating scenario. Conduct the test before February 14 of the calendar year that immediately follows the change. In the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section, apply the revised process-vent-specific emission factor to the process activity that occurs after the operating scenario change.
(vii)
Previous measurements.
If an emissions test was conducted less than 5 years before November 12, 2024, and the emissions testing meets the requirements in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section, the entity may use the previous emissions testing to develop process-vent-specific emission factors. For purposes of paragraph (d)(2)(vi)(A) of this section, the date of the previous emissions test rather than November 12, 2024, shall constitute the beginning of the 5-year re-measurement cycle.
(3)
Emission calculation factor monitoring.
If controlled substance emissions were determined using the site-specific process-vent-specific emission calculation factor, each entity must meet the requirements in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i)
Operating scenario.
Perform the emissions calculation for the process vent based on representative performance of the operating scenario of the process. If more than one operating scenario applies to the process that contains the subject process vent, you must conduct a separate emissions calculation for operation under each operating scenario. For each continuous process vent that contains more than trace concentrations of any controlled substance and for each batch process vent that contains more than trace concentrations of any controlled substance, develop the process-vent-specific emission calculation factor for each operating scenario. For continuous process vents, determine the emissions based on the process activity for the representative performance of
the operating scenario. For batch process vents, determine emissions based on the process activity for each typical batch operating scenario.
(ii)
Process activity measurements.
Use flow meters, weigh scales, or other measurement devices or instruments with an accuracy and precision of ±1 percent of full scale or better for monitoring ongoing process activity.
(iii)
Emission calculation results.
The emission calculation must be documented by identifying the process, the operating scenario, and the process vent(s). The documentation must contain the information and data used to calculate the process-vent-specific emission calculation factor.
(iv)
Operating scenario change that affects the emission calculation factor.
For planned operating scenario changes that are expected to change the process-vent-specific emission calculation factor, each entity must conduct an emissions calculation to update the process-vent-specific emission calculation factor. In the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section, apply the revised emission calculation factor to the process activity that occurs after the operating scenario change.
(v)
Previous calculations.
If an emissions calculation was performed for the process vent and operating scenario less than 5 years before November 12, 2024, and the emissions calculation meets the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section and in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section, each entity may use the previous calculation to develop the site-specific process-vent-specific emission calculation factor.
(4)
Mass balance monitoring.
If you determine controlled substance emissions from any process using the mass balance method under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, you must estimate the total mass of each controlled substance emitted from that process at least monthly. Only streams that contain greater than trace concentrations of halogen-containing reactants, products, or byproducts must be monitored under this paragraph (d)(4).
(i)
Mass measurements.
Measure the following masses on a monthly or more frequent basis using flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with accuracies and precisions that allow the facility to meet the error criteria in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section:
(A) Total mass of each halogen-containing product produced. Account for any used halogen-containing product added into the production process upstream of the output measurement as directed at §§ 98.413(b) and 98.414(b) of this chapter.
(B) Total mass of each halogen-containing reactant fed into the process.
(C) The mass removed from the process in each stream fed into the destruction device.
(D) The mass removed from the process in each recaptured stream.
(ii)
Concentration measurements for use with paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section.
If you use paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section to estimate the mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, measure the following concentrations at least once each calendar month during which the process is operating, on a schedule to ensure that the measurements are representative of the full range of process conditions (
e.g.,
catalyst age). Measure more frequently if this is necessary to meet the error criteria in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section. Use equipment and methods (
e.g.,
gas chromatography) that comply with paragraph (d)(5) of this section and that have an accuracy and precision that allow the facility to meet the error criteria in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section. Only halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts that occur in a stream in greater than trace concentrations must be monitored under this paragraph (d)(4)(ii).
(A) The concentration (mass fraction) of the halogen-containing product in each stream that is fed into the destruction device.
(B) The concentration (mass fraction) of each halogen-containing byproduct in each stream that is fed into the destruction device.
(C) The concentration (mass fraction) of each halogen-containing reactant in each stream that is fed into the destruction device.
(D) The concentration (mass fraction) of each halogen-containing byproduct in each stream that is recaptured (c
Bkl
).
(iii)
Concentration measurements for use with paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section.
If you use paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section to estimate the mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, measure the concentrations listed in paragraphs (d)(4)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section at least once each calendar month during which the process is operating, on a schedule to ensure that the measurements are representative of the full range of process conditions (
e.g.,
catalyst age). Measure more frequently if this is necessary to meet the error criteria in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section. Use equipment and methods (
e.g.,
gas chromatography) that comply with paragraph (d)(5) of this section and that have an accuracy and precision that allow the facility to meet the error criteria in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section. Only halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts that occur in a stream in greater than trace concentrations must be monitored under this paragraph (d)(4)(iii).
(A) The concentration (mass fraction) of total halogen in each stream that is fed into the destruction device.
(B) The concentration (mass fraction) of total halogen in each stream that is recaptured.
(iv)
Emissions characterization: process vents emitting 0.1 metric tons or more.
To characterize emissions from any process vent emitting 0.1 metric tons of controlled substances or more, comply with paragraphs (d)(4)(iv)(A) through (E) of this section, as appropriate. Only halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts that occur in a stream in greater than trace concentrations must be monitored under this paragraph (d)(4)(iv).
(A)
Uncontrolled emissions.
If emissions from the process vent are not routed through a destruction device, sample and analyze emissions at the process vent or stack or sample and analyze emitted streams before the process vent. If the process has more than one operating scenario, you must either perform the emission characterization for each operating scenario or perform the emission characterization for the operating scenario that is expected to have the largest emissions and adjust the emission characterization for other scenarios using engineering calculations and assessments as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. To perform the characterization, take three samples under conditions that are representative for the operating scenario. Measure the concentration of each halogen-containing compound in each sample. Use equipment and methods that comply with paragraph (d)(5) of this section. Calculate the average concentration of each halogen-containing compound across all three samples.
(B)
Controlled emissions using paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section.
If you use paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section to estimate the total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, and if the emissions from the process vent are routed through a destruction device, characterize emissions as specified in paragraph (d)(4)(iv)(A) of this section before the destruction device. Apply the destruction efficiency demonstrated for each controlled substance in the destroyed stream to that controlled substance. Exclude from the characterization halogen-containing compounds that are not controlled substances.
(C)
Controlled emissions using paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section.
If you use paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section to estimate the mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, and if the emissions from the process vent are routed through a destruction device, characterize the process vent's emissions monthly (or more frequently) using the monthly (or more frequent) measurements under paragraphs (d)(4)(i)(C) and (d)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. Apply the destruction efficiency demonstrated for each controlled substance in the destroyed stream to that controlled substance. Exclude from the characterization halogen-containing compounds that are not controlled substances.
(D)
Emissions characterization frequency.
You must repeat emission characterizations performed under paragraphs (d)(4)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section under paragraph (d)(4)(iv)(D)(
1
)
or (
2
) of this section, whichever occurs first:
(
1
)
5-year revision.
Repeat the emission characterization every 5 years. In the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section, apply the revised emission characterization to the process activity that occurs after the revision.
(
2
)
Operating scenario change that affects the emission characterization.
For planned operating scenario changes, you must estimate and compare the emission calculation factors for the changed operating scenario and for the original operating scenario whose process vent specific emission factor was measured. Use the engineering calculations and assessments specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. If the share of total halogen-containing compound emissions represented by any controlled substance changes under the changed operating scenario by 15 percent or more of the total, relative to the previous operating scenario (this includes the cumulative change in the emission calculation factor since the last emissions test), you must repeat the emission characterization. Perform the emission characterization before February 14 of the year that immediately follows the change. In the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section, apply the revised emission characterization to the process activity that occurs after the operating scenario change.
(E)
Subsequent measurements.
If a process vent with controlled substance emissions less than 0.1 metric tons, per paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, is later found to have controlled substance emissions of 0.1 metric tons or greater, you must perform an emission characterization under this paragraph (d)(4)(iv)(E) during the following year.
(v)
Emissions characterization: process vents emitting less than 0.1 metric tons.
To characterize emissions from any process vent emitting less than 0.1 metric tons, comply with paragraphs (d)(4)(v)(A) and (B) of this section, as appropriate. Only halogen-containing reactants, products, and byproducts that occur in a stream in greater than trace concentrations must be monitored under this paragraph (d)(4)(v).
(A)
Uncontrolled emissions.
If emissions from the process vent are not routed through a destruction device, emission measurements must consist of sampling and analysis of emissions at the process vent or stack, sampling and analysis of emitted streams before the process vent, previous test results, provided the tests are representative of current operating conditions of the process, or bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process operating conditions.
(B)
Controlled emissions using paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section.
If you use paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section to estimate the total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, and if the emissions from the process vent are routed through a destruction device, characterize emissions as specified in paragraph (d)(4)(v)(A) of this section before the destruction device. Apply the destruction efficiency demonstrated for each controlled substance in the destroyed stream to that controlled substance. Exclude from the characterization halogen-containing compounds that are not controlled substances.
(C)
Controlled emissions using paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section.
If you use paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section to estimate the mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, and if the emissions from the process vent are routed through a destruction device, characterize the process vent's emissions monthly (or more frequently) using the monthly (or more frequent) measurements under paragraphs (d)(4)(i)(C) and (d)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. Apply the destruction efficiency demonstrated for each controlled substance in the destroyed stream to that controlled substance. Exclude from the characterization halogen-containing compounds that are not controlled substances.
(vi)
Emissions characterization: emissions not accounted for by process vent estimates.
Calculate the weighted average emission characterization across the process vents before any destruction devices. Apply the weighted average emission characterization for all the process vents to any halogen emissions that are not accounted for by process vent estimates.
(vii)
Impurities in reactants.
If any halogen-containing impurity is fed into
a process along with a reactant (or other input) in greater than trace concentrations, this impurity shall be monitored under this section and included in the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section in the same manner as reactants fed into the process, fed into the destruction device, recaptured, or emitted, except the concentration of the impurity in the mass fed into the process shall be measured, and the mass of the impurity fed into the process shall be calculated as the product of the concentration of the impurity and the mass fed into the process. The mass of the reactant fed into the process may be reduced to account for the mass of the impurity.
(viii)
Alternative to error calculation.
As an alternative to calculating the relative and absolute errors associated with the estimate of emissions under this paragraph (d)(4), you may comply with the precision, accuracy, and measurement and calculation frequency requirements of paragraph (d)(4)(viii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A)
Mass measurements.
Measure the masses specified in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section using flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with accuracies and precisions of ±0.2 percent of full scale or better.
(B)
Concentration measurements.
Measure the concentrations specified in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) or (iii) of this section, as applicable, using analytical methods with accuracies and precisions of ±10 percent or better.
(C)
Measurement and calculation frequency.
Perform the mass measurements specified in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section and the concentration measurements specified in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) or (iii) of this section, as applicable, at least weekly, and calculate emissions at least weekly.
(5)
Emission and stream testing, including analytical methods.
Select and document testing and analytical methods as follows:
(i)
Sampling and mass measurement for emission testing.
For emission testing in process vents or at the stack, use methods for sampling, measuring volumetric flow rates, non-controlled substance gas analysis, and measuring stack gas moisture that have been validated using a scientifically sound validation protocol.
(A)
Sample and velocity traverses.
Acceptable methods include but are not limited to EPA Method 1 or 1A in appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60.
(B)
Velocity and volumetric flow rates.
Acceptable methods include but are not limited to EPA Method 2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G in appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60. Alternatives that may be used for determining flow rates include Other Test Method 24 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27) and ALT-012 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).
(C)
Non-controlled substance gas analysis.
Acceptable methods include but are not limited to EPA Method 3, 3A, or 3B in appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60.
(D)
Stack gas moisture.
Acceptable methods include but are not limited to EPA Method 4 in appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60.
(ii)
Analytical methods.
Use a quality-assured analytical measurement technology capable of detecting the analyte of interest at the concentration of interest and use a sampling and analytical procedure validated with the analyte of interest at the concentration of interest. Where calibration standards for the analyte are not available, a chemically similar surrogate may be used. Acceptable analytical measurement technologies include but are not limited to gas chromatography (GC) with an appropriate detector, infrared (IR), Fourier transform infrared (FTIR), and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). Acceptable methods for determining controlled substances include EPA Method 18 in appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60, EPA Method 320 in appendix A to 40 CFR part 63, EPA 430-R-10-003 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27), ASTM D6348-03 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27), or other analytical methods validated using EPA Method 301 at appendix A to 40 CFR part 63. The validation protocol may include analytical technology manufacturer specifications or recommendations.
(iii)
Documentation in the monitoring plan.
Describe the sampling, measurement, and analytical method(s) used under paragraphs (d)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section in the monitoring plan. Identify the methods used to obtain
the samples and measurements listed under paragraphs (d)(5)(i)(A) through (D) of this section. At a minimum, include in the description of the analytical method a description of the analytical measurement equipment and procedures, quantitative estimates of the method's accuracy and precision for the analytes of interest at the concentrations of interest, as well as a description of how these accuracies and precisions were estimated, including the validation protocol used.
(6)
Emission monitoring for pieces of equipment.
If conducting a site-specific leak detection method or monitoring approach for pieces of equipment, each entity must follow paragraph (d)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section and follow paragraph (d)(6)(iii) of this section.
(i)
Site-specific leak monitoring approach.
Each entity may develop a site-specific leak monitoring approach. The entity must validate the leak monitoring method and describe the method and the validation in the monitoring plan. To validate the site-specific method, the entity may, for example, release a known rate of the controlled substances or surrogates of interest, or may compare the results of the site-specific method to those of a method that has been validated for the controlled substances or surrogates of interest. In the description of the leak detection method and its validation, include a detailed description of the method, including the procedures and equipment used and any sampling strategies. Also include the rationale behind the method, including why the method is expected to result in an unbiased estimate of emissions from equipment leaks. If the method is based on methods that are used to detect or quantify leaks or other emissions in other regulations, standards, or guidelines, identify and describe the regulations, standards, or guidelines and why their methods are applicable to emissions of controlled substances or surrogates from leaks. Account for possible sources of error in the method,
e.g.,
instrument detection limits, measurement biases, and sampling biases. Describe validation efforts, including but not limited to any comparisons against standard leaks or concentrations, any comparisons against other methods, and their results. If using the Screening Ranges Approach, the EPA Correlation Approach, or the Unit-Specific Correlation Approach with a monitoring instrument that does not meet all of the specifications in EPA Method 21 in appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, then explain how and why the monitoring instrument, as used at the facility, would nevertheless be expected to accurately detect and quantify emissions of controlled substances or surrogates from process equipment, and describe how accuracy was verified. For all methods, provide a quantitative estimate of the accuracy and precision of the method.
(ii)
EPA Method 21 monitoring.
If it is determined that EPA Method 21 in appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 is appropriate for monitoring a controlled substance, conduct the screening value concentration measurements using EPA Method 21 to determine the screening range data or the actual screening value data for the Screening Ranges Approach, EPA Correlation Approach, or the Unit-Specific Correlation Approach. For the one-time testing to develop the Unit-Specific Correlation equations in EPA-453/R-95-017 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27), conduct the screening value concentration measurements using EPA Method 21 and the bagging procedures to measure mass emissions. Concentration measurements of bagged samples must be conducted using gas chromatography following analytical procedures in EPA Method 18 in appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60 or other method according to this paragraph (d)(6). Use methane or other appropriate compound as the calibration gas.
(iii)
Frequency of measurement and sampling.
If estimating emissions based on monitoring of equipment, each entity must conduct monitoring at least annually. Sample at least one-third of equipment annually (except for equipment that is unsafe-to-monitor, difficult-to-monitor, insulated, or in heavy liquid service, pumps with dual mechanical seals, agitators with dual mechanical seals, pumps with no external shaft, agitators with no external shaft, pressure relief devices in gas and vapor service with an upstream rupture disk, sampling connection systems
with closed-loop or closed purge systems, and pieces of equipment whose leaks are routed through a closed vent system to a destruction unit), changing the sample each year such that at the end of three years, all equipment in the process (that is not subject to the above-listed exceptions) has been monitored. If estimating emissions based on a sample of the equipment in the process, ensure that the sample is representative of the equipment in the process. If there are multiple processes that have similar types of equipment in similar service, and that perform activities on similar controlled substances (in terms of chemical composition, molecular weight, and vapor pressure) at similar pressures and concentrations, then the entity may annually sample all of the equipment in one third of these processes rather than one third of the equipment in each process.
(7)
Destruction unit performance testing.
If venting or otherwise feeding controlled substances into a destruction unit and apply the destruction efficiency of the device to one or more controlled substances in paragraph (c) of this section, each entity must conduct emissions testing to determine the destruction efficiency for each controlled substance to which the destruction efficiency was applied. The entity must either determine the destruction efficiency for the most-difficult-to-destroy controlled substance fed into the device (or a surrogate that is still more difficult to destroy) and apply that destruction efficiency to all the controlled substances fed into the device or alternatively determine different destruction efficiencies for different groups of controlled substances using the most-difficult-to-destroy controlled substance of each group (or a surrogate that is still more difficult to destroy).
(i)
Destruction efficiency testing.
Each entity must sample the inlet and outlet of the destruction unit for a minimum of three runs of 1 hour each to determine the destruction efficiency. The entity must conduct the emissions testing using the methods in paragraph (d)(5) of this section. To determine the destruction efficiency, emission testing must be conducted when operating at high loads reasonably expected to occur (
i.e.,
representative of high total controlled substance load that will be sent to the device) and when destroying the most-difficult-to-destroy controlled substance (or a surrogate that is still more difficult to destroy) that is fed into the device from the processes subject to this section or that belongs to the group of controlled substances for which destruction efficiency is to be established. If the outlet concentration of a controlled substance that is fed into the device is below the detection limit of the method, the entity may use an outlet concentration of one-third the detection limit to estimate the destruction efficiency.
(A) For all other controlled substances that are vented to the destruction unit in any stream in more than trace concentrations, each entity must test and determine the destruction efficiency achieved for the most-difficult-to-destroy controlled substance or surrogate vented to the destruction unit. Examples of acceptable surrogates include the Class 1 compounds (ranked 1 through 34) in Appendix D, Table D-1 of “Guidance on Setting Permit Conditions and Reporting Trial Burn Results; Volume II of the Hazardous Waste Incineration Guidance Series,” January 1989, EPA Publication EPA 625/6-89/019. A copy of this publication can be obtained by contacting the Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20460, (202) 272-0167,
https://www.epa.gov.
(B) [Reserved]
(ii)
Destruction efficiency testing frequency.
Each entity must conduct emissions testing to determine the destruction efficiency as provided in paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, whichever occurs first:
(A)
Conduct an emissions test every 5 years.
In the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section, apply the updated destruction efficiency to the destruction that occurs after the test.
(B)
Destruction unit changes that affect the destruction efficiency.
If making a change to the destruction unit that would be expected to affect the destruction efficiency, each entity must conduct an emissions test to update the destruction efficiency. Conduct the
test before February 14 of the year that immediately follows the change. In the calculations under paragraph (c) of this section, apply the updated destruction efficiency to the destruction that occurs after the change to the device.
(iii)
Previous testing.
If an emissions test was conducted within the 5 years prior to November 12, 2024, and the emissions testing meets the requirements in paragraph (d)(7)(i) of this section, each entity may use the destruction efficiency determined during this previous emissions testing. For purposes of paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) of this section, the date of the previous emissions test rather than November 12, 2024, shall constitute the beginning of the 5-year re-measurement cycle.
(iv)
Hazardous waste combustor testing.
If a destruction unit used to destroy a controlled substance is subject to testing under subpart EEE of part 63 of this chapter or any portion of parts 260 through 270 of this chapter, each entity may apply the destruction efficiency specifically determined for controlled substances under that test if the testing meets the criteria in paragraph (d)(7)(i)(A) of this section. If the testing of the destruction efficiency under subpart EEE of part 63 was conducted more than 5 years ago, the entity may use the most recent destruction efficiency test provided that the design, operation, and maintenance of the destruction unit has not changed since the last destruction efficiency test in a manner that could affect the ability to achieve the destruction efficiency, and the hazardous waste is fed into the normal flame zone.
(8)
Mass of previously produced controlled substances fed into a destruction unit.
Each entity must measure the mass of each controlled substance that is fed into the destruction unit in more than trace concentrations. Such controlled substances include but are not limited to quantities that are shipped to the facility by another facility for destruction and quantities that are returned to the facility for reclamation but are found to be irretrievably contaminated and are therefore destroyed. The entity must use flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with an accuracy and precision of ±1 percent of full scale or better. If the measured mass includes more than trace concentrations of materials other than the controlled substance being destroyed, the entity must measure the concentration of the controlled substance being destroyed. The entity must multiply this concentration (mass fraction) by the mass measurement to obtain the mass of the controlled substance fed into the destruction unit.
(9)
Emissions due to malfunctions of destruction unit.
In their estimates of the mass of controlled substances destroyed, facilities that destroy controlled substances must account for any temporary reductions in the destruction efficiency that result from any malfunctions of the destruction unit, including periods of operation outside of the operating conditions defined in operating permit requirements and/or outside of the destruction unit's manufacturer's specifications.
(10)
Emissions due to process startup, shutdown, or malfunctions.
For each process listed in paragraph (b) of this section, each entity must account for emissions of controlled substance that occur at each facility as a result of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions, either recording controlled substance emissions during these events, or documenting that these events do not result in significant controlled substance emissions. Facilities may use the calculation methods in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section to estimate emissions during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions.
(11)
Development of initial parameters.
Initial scoping speciations, emissions testing, emission factor development, emission calculation factor development, emission characterization development, and destruction efficiency determinations must be completed by February 7, 2025, for processes and operating scenarios that operate between October 10, 2024, and November 12, 2024. For other processes and operating scenarios, initial scoping specifications, emissions testing, emission factor development, emission calculation factor development, emission characterization development, and destruction efficiency determinations must be complete by February 14 of the year following the year in which the process or
operating scenario commences or recommences.
(12)
Calibration for volumetric and density measurements.
Calibrate all flow meters, weigh scales, and combinations of volumetric and density measures using monitoring instruments traceable to the International System of Units (SI) through the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) or other recognized national measurement institute. Recalibrate all flow meters, weigh scales, and combinations of volumetric and density measures at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer. Use any of the following applicable flow meter test methods or the calibration procedures specified by the flow meter, weigh-scale, or other volumetric or density measure manufacturer.
(i) ASME MFC-3M-2004 Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Orifice, Nozzle, and Venturi (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).
(ii) ASME MFC-4M-1986 (Reaffirmed 2016) Measurement of Gas Flow by Turbine Meters (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).
(iii) ASME-MFC-5M-1985, (Reaffirmed1994) Measurement of Liquid Flow in Closed Conduits Using Transit-Time Ultrasonic Flowmeters (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).
(iv) ASME MFC-6M-1998 Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Vortex Flowmeters (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).
(v) ASME MFC-7M-1987 (Reaffirmed 1992) Measurement of Gas Flow by Means of Critical Flow Venturi Nozzles (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).
(vi) ASME MFC-9M-1988 (Reaffirmed 2001) Measurement of Liquid Flow in Closed Conduits by Weighing Method (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).
(vii) ASME MFC-11M-2006 Measurement of Fluid Flow by Means of Coriolis Mass Flowmeters (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).
(viii) ASME MFC-14M-2003 Measurement of Fluid Flow Using Small Bore Precision Orifice Meters (incorporated by reference, see § 82.27).
(13)
Calibration for concentration determinations.
All analytical equipment used to determine the concentration of controlled substances, including but not limited to gas chromatographs and associated detectors, IR, FTIR, and NMR devices, must be calibrated at a frequency needed to support the type of analysis specified in the monitoring plan as required under paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section. Quality assurance samples at the concentrations of concern must be used for the calibration. Such quality assurance samples must consist of or be prepared from certified standards of the analytes of concern where available; if not available, calibration must be performed by a method specified in the monitoring plan.
(e)
Data reporting requirements
—(1)
All facilities.
In addition to the information required by § 82.13, for class I controlled substances, and § 82.24, for class II controlled substances, each entity must report the information in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section according to the schedule in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section.
(i)
Frequency of reporting under this paragraph (e)(1).
The information in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (v) of this section must be reported annually, as applicable.
(ii)
Process identification.
For each process listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, each entity must provide:
(A) A description and identification of the process listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(B) A description and number, letter, or other identifier for each process vent associated with the process. This identifier must be a consistent name reported from year to year.
(C) The type of method(s) (
i.e.,
process-vent-specific emission factor, process-vent-specific emission calculation factor, or mass balance) and each applicable analytical approach (
e.g.,
compliance options under paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (d)(4) of this section) used to determine the mass emissions from each process vent associated with the process.
(D) The type of method(s) (
e.g.,
site-specific leak monitoring approach or EPA Method 21 monitoring) and each applicable analytical approach (
e.g.,
compliance options under paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (d)(4) of this section) used to determine the mass emissions from equipment leaks associated with the process.
(iii)
Process emissions.
For each controlled substance, each entity must report the total mass in kilograms of the controlled substance emitted from the processes listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(iv)
Effective destruction efficiency.
For each process and controlled substance, report the effective destruction efficiency, DE
effective,
calculated for that process using equation 31 to paragraph (c)(6) of this section.
(v)
Monitoring plan.
The monitoring plan, as specified in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, including any revisions since the prior year's submission as applicable.
(2)
Reporting for emission factor and emission calculation factor approach.
For processes whose emissions are determined using the emission factor approach under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section or the emission calculation factor under paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, each entity must report the following for each process.
(i) The identity and quantity of the process activity used to estimate emissions (
e.g.,
tons of product produced or tons of reactant consumed) for each process vent associated with the process.
(ii) The site-specific, process-vent-specific emission factor(s) or emission calculation factor for each process vent associated with the process.
(iii) For each controlled substance, the mass emitted from each process vent associated with the process, in kilograms.
(iv) For each controlled substance, the total mass emitted from equipment leaks, in kilograms.
(3)
Reporting for mass balance approach.
For processes whose emissions are determined using the mass-balance approach under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, you must report the information listed in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (xiii) of this section for each process on an annual basis. Identify and separately report controlled substance emissions from transformation processes where the controlled substance reactants are produced at another facility. If you use an element other than a halogen in the mass-balance equation pursuant to paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section, substitute that element for the halogen in the reporting requirements of this paragraph (e)(3).
(i) If you calculate the relative and absolute errors under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, the absolute and relative errors calculated under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, as well as the data (including quantities and their accuracies and precisions) used in these calculations.
(ii) The balanced chemical equation that describes the reaction used to manufacture the controlled substance product and each controlled substance transformation product.
(iii) The mass and chemical formula of each controlled substance reactant emitted from the process in metric tons.
(iv) The mass and chemical formula of the controlled substance product emitted from the process in metric tons.
(v) The mass and chemical formula of each controlled substance byproduct emitted from the process in metric tons.
(vi) The mass and chemical formula of each controlled substance reactant that is fed into the process (metric tons).
(vii) The mass and chemical formula of each halogen-containing product produced by the process (metric tons).
(viii) If you use paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section to estimate the total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, report the following.
(A) The mass and chemical formula of each halogen-containing product that is removed from the process and fed into the destruction device (metric tons).
(B) The mass and chemical formula of each halogen-containing byproduct that is removed from the process and fed into the destruction device (metric tons).
(C) The mass and chemical formula of each halogen-containing reactant that is removed from the process and fed into the destruction device (metric tons).
(D) The mass and chemical formula of each halogen-containing byproduct that is removed from the process and recaptured (metric tons).
(E) The demonstrated destruction efficiency of the destruction device for each controlled substance fed into the device from the process in greater than trace concentrations (fraction).
(ix) If you use paragraph (c)(4)(xv) of this section to estimate the total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams, report the following.
(A) The mass of halogen in each stream that is fed into the destruction device (metric tons).
(B) The mass of halogen that is recaptured (metric tons).
(C) The weighted average destruction efficiency of the destruction device calculated for each stream under paragraph (c)(4)(xvi) of this section.
(x) The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of each halogen-containing reactant.
(xi) The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of the halogen-containing product.
(xii) The fraction of the mass emitted that consists of each halogen-containing byproduct.
(xiii) The method used to estimate the total mass of halogen in destroyed or recaptured streams (specify paragraph (c)(4)(iv) or (xv) of this section).
(4)
Reporting of destruction unit excess emission data.
Each facility that destroys a controlled substance must report the excess emissions that result from malfunctions of the destruction unit, and these excess emissions must be reflected in the controlled substance estimates in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Such excess emissions would occur if the destruction efficiency was reduced due to the malfunction.
(5)
Reporting of destruction unit testing.
By February 7, 2025, or by February 14 of the year immediately following the year in which it begins controlled substance destruction, each facility that destroys controlled substances must submit a report containing the information in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section. This report is one-time unless a change is made to the destruction unit that would be expected to affect its destruction efficiencies.
(i) Chemical identity of the controlled substance(s) used in the performance test conducted to determine destruction efficiency, including surrogates, and information on why the surrogate is sufficient to demonstrate the destruction efficiency for each controlled substance, consistent with requirements in paragraph (d)(7)(i) of this section, vented to the destruction unit.
(ii) Date of the most recent destruction unit test.
(iii) Name of all applicable Federal or State regulations that may apply to the destruction process.
(6)
Reporting for destruction.
Each facility that destroys controlled substances must report, separately from the controlled substance emissions reported under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the following for each previously produced controlled substance destroyed:
(i) The mass of the controlled substance emitted from the destruction unit (kilograms).
(ii) [Reserved]
(7)
Reporting of controlled substance products of incomplete combustion (PICs) of controlled substances.
Each facility that destroys controlled substances must submit a one-time report by February 7, 2025, or by February 14 of the year immediately following the year in which it begins controlled substance destruction, that describes any measurements, research, or analysis that it has performed or obtained that relate to the formation of products of incomplete combustion that are controlled substances during the destruction of controlled substances. The report must include the methods and results of any measurement or modeling studies, including the products of incomplete combustion for which the exhaust stream was analyzed, as well as copies of relevant scientific papers, if available, or citations of the papers, if they are not. No new testing is required to fulfill the requirement of this paragraph (e)(7).
(f)
Records that must be retained.
Each entity must retain the dated records specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (6) of this section, as applicable, and be able to provide such information to EPA within 5 business days of the date the records are requested.
(1)
Process information records.
(i) Identify all processes subject to this section. Include the unit identification
as appropriate, the process identification reported for the process under paragraphs (e)(1)(ii)(A) through (B) of this section, and the product with which the process is associated.
(ii) Monthly and annual records, as applicable, of all analyses and calculations conducted as required under paragraph (c) of this section, including the data monitored under paragraph (d) of this section, and all information reported as required under paragraph (e) of this section.
(2)
Scoping speciation.
Retain records documenting the information collected under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(3)
Emission factor and emission calculation factor method.
Retain the following records for each process for which the emission factor or emission calculation factor method was used to estimate emissions.
(i) Identify all continuous process vents with emissions of controlled substances that are included in the top 25 percent of continuous process vents, and all continuous process vents in the remaining group (
i.e.,
75 percent of continuous process vents with lower emissions of controlled substances). Include the data and calculation used to develop the preliminary estimate of emissions for each process vent.
(ii) Identify all batch process vents.
(iii) For each vent, identify the method used to develop the factor (
i.e.,
emission factor by emissions test or emission calculation factor).
(iv) The emissions test data and reports (see paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section) and the calculations used to determine the process-vent-specific emission factor, including the actual process-vent-specific emission factor, the average hourly emission rate of each controlled substance from the process vent during the test and the process feed rate, process production rate, or other process activity rate during the test.
(v) The process-vent-specific emission calculation factor and the calculations used to determine the process-vent-specific emission calculation factor.
(vi) The annual process production quantity or other process activity information in the appropriate units, along with the dates and time period during which the process was operating and dates and time periods the process vents are vented to the destruction unit. As an alternative to date and time periods when process vents are vented to the destruction unit, a facility may track dates and time periods that process vents by-pass the destruction unit.
(vii) Calculations used to determine annual emissions of each controlled substance for each process and the total controlled substance emissions for all processes,
i.e.,
total for facility.
(4)
Mass-balance method.
Retain the following records for each process for which the mass-balance method was used to estimate emissions. If you use an element other than a halogen in the mass-balance equation pursuant to paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section, substitute that element for the halogen in the recordkeeping requirements of this paragraph (f)(4).
(i) The data and calculations used to estimate the absolute and relative errors associated with use of the mass-balance approach.
(ii) The data and calculations used to estimate the mass of halogen emitted from the process.
(iii) The data and calculations used to determine the fractions of the mass emitted consisting of each reactant (FERd), product (FEP), and byproduct (FEBk), including the preliminary calculations in paragraph (c)(4)(viii)(A) of this section.
(5)
Destruction efficiency testing.
A facility that destroys controlled substances and reflects this destruction in paragraph (c) of this section must retain the emissions performance testing reports (including revised reports) for each destruction unit. The emissions performance testing report must contain all information and data used to derive the destruction efficiency for each controlled substance whose destruction the facility reflects in paragraph (c) of this section, as well as the key process and device conditions during the test. This information includes the following:
(i) Destruction efficiency (DE) determined for each controlled substance whose destruction the facility reflects
in paragraph (c) of this section, in accordance with paragraph (d)(7)(i)(A) of this section.
(ii) Chemical identity of the controlled substance(s) used in the performance test conducted to determine destruction efficiency, including surrogates, and information on why the surrogate is sufficient to demonstrate destruction efficiency for each controlled substance, consistent with requirements in paragraph (d)(7)(i)(A) of this section, vented to the destruction unit.
(iii) Mass flow rate of the stream containing the controlled substance or surrogate into the device during the test.
(iv) Concentration (mass fraction) of each controlled substance or surrogate in the stream flowing into the device during the test.
(v) Concentration (mass fraction) of each controlled substance or surrogate at the outlet of the destruction unit during the test.
(vi) Mass flow rate at the outlet of the destruction unit during the test.
(vii) Test methods and analytical methods used to determine the mass flow rates and controlled substance (or surrogate) concentrations of the streams flowing into and out of the destruction unit during the test.
(viii) Destruction unit conditions that are normally monitored for device control, such as temperature, total mass flow rates into the device, and CO or O
2
levels.
(ix) Name of all applicable Federal or State regulations that may apply to the destruction process.
(6)
Equipment leak records.
If the equipment is subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, each entity must maintain information on the number of each type of equipment, the service of each piece of equipment (gas, light liquid, heavy liquid); the concentration of each controlled substance in the stream; each piece of equipment excluded from monitoring requirement; the time period each piece of equipment was in service, and the emission calculations for each controlled substance for all processes. Depending on the equipment leak monitoring approach followed, each entity must maintain information for equipment on the associated screening data concentrations for greater than or equal to 10,000 ppmv and associated screening data concentrations for less than 10,000 ppmv; associated actual screening data concentrations; and associated screening data and leak rate data (
i.e.,
bagging) used to develop a unit-specific correlation. If a site-specific leak detection approach was developed and followed, provide the records for monitoring events and the emissions estimation calculations, as appropriate, consistent with the approach for equipment leak emission estimation in the monitoring plan.
(7)
All facilities.
Dated records documenting the initial and periodic calibration of all analytical equipment used to determine the concentration of controlled substances, including but not limited to gas chromatographs, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, gas chromatograph-electron capture detector, FTIR, and NMR devices, and all mass measurement equipment such as weigh scales, flowmeters, and volumetric and density measures used to measure the quantities reported under this section, including the industry standards or manufacturer directions used for calibration pursuant to paragraphs (d)(5), (6), (12), and (13) of this section.
(8)
Controlled substance monitoring plan.
A Controlled Substance Monitoring Plan must be completed by February 7, 2025, or within 120 days of the date that an entity first meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section.
(i) At a minimum, the monitoring plan shall include the elements listed in this paragraph (f)(8)(i) of this section.
(A) Identification of positions of responsibility (
i.e.,
job titles) for collection of the emission data.
(B) Explanation of the processes and methods used to collect the necessary data for calculations under this section.
(C) Description of the procedures and methods that are used for quality assurance, maintenance, and repair of all continuous monitoring systems, flow meters, and other instrumentation used to provide data for the controlled substances reported under this part.
(ii) The monitoring plan may rely on references to existing corporate documents (
e.g.,
standard operating procedures, quality assurance programs under appendix F to 40 CFR part 60 or appendix B to 40 CFR part 75, and other documents) provided that the elements required by paragraph (f)(8)(i) of this section are easily recognizable.
(iii) The owner or operator shall revise the monitoring as needed to reflect changes in production processes, monitoring instrumentation, and quality assurance procedures; or to improve procedures for the maintenance and repair of monitoring systems to reduce the frequency of monitoring equipment downtime.
[89 FR 82433, Oct. 10, 2024]
§ 82.26
Treatment of data submitted under this subpart.
(a) Sections 2.201 through 2.215 and 2.301 of this chapter do not apply to data submitted under this subpart that EPA has determined through rulemaking to be either of the following:
(1) Emission data, as defined in § 2.301(a)(2) of this chapter, determined in accordance with section 114(c) and 307(d) of the Clean Air Act; or
(2) Data not otherwise entitled to confidential treatment.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d) of this section and §§ 2.201 through 2.208 and 2.301(c) and (d) of this chapter do not apply to data submitted under this part that EPA has determined through rulemaking to be entitled to confidential treatment. EPA shall treat that information as confidential in accordance with the provisions of § 2.211 of this chapter, subject to paragraph (d) of this section and § 2.209 of this chapter.
(c) Upon receiving a request under 5 U.S.C. 552 for data submitted under this part that EPA has determined through rulemaking to be entitled to confidential treatment, the relevant Agency official shall furnish the requestor a notice that the information has been determined to be entitled to confidential treatment and that the request is therefore denied. The notice shall include or cite to the appropriate EPA determination.
(d) A determination made through rulemaking that information submitted under this part is entitled to confidential treatment shall continue in effect unless, subsequent to the confidentiality determination through rulemaking, EPA takes one of the following actions:
(1) EPA determines through a subsequent rulemaking that the information is emission data or data not otherwise entitled to confidential treatment; or
(2) The Office of General Counsel issues a final determination, based on the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), stating that the information is no longer entitled to confidential treatment because of change in the applicable law or newly discovered or changed facts. Prior to making such final determination, EPA shall afford the business an opportunity to submit comments on pertinent issues in the manner described by §§ 2.204(e) and 2.205(b) of this chapter. If, after consideration of any timely comments submitted by the business, the Office of General Counsel makes a revised final determination that the information is not entitled to confidential treatment, the relevant agency official will notify the business in accordance with the procedures described in § 2.205(f)(2) of this chapter.
[89 FR 82450, Oct. 10, 2024]
§ 82.27
Incorporation by reference.
(a)(1) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this subpart with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at EPA and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact EPA at: U.S. EPA's Air and Radiation Docket; EPA West Building, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20460, 202-566-1742. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
(2) The IBR material may be obtained from the sources in the following paragraphs of this section or from one or more private resellers listed in this paragraph (a)(2). For material that is no longer commercially available, contact: U.S. EPA's Air and Radiation
Docket; EPA West Building, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20460;
a-and-rdocket@epa.gov.
(i) Accuris Standards Store, 321 Inverness Drive, South Englewood, CO 80112; phone: (800) 332-6077; website:
https://accuristech.com.
(ii) American National Standards Institute (ANSI), 25 West 43rd Street, Fourth Floor, New York, NY 10036-7417; phone: (212) 642-4980; email:
info@ansi.org;
website:
www.ansi.org.
(iii) GlobalSpec, 257 Fuller Road, Suite NFE 1100, Albany, NY 12203-3621; phone: (800) 261-2052; website:
https://standards.globalspec.com.
(iv) Nimonik Document Center, 401 Roland Way, Suite 224, Oakland, CA 94624; phone (650) 591-7600; email:
info@document-center.com;
website:
www.document-center.com.
(b) American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), Two Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016, phone: 800.843.2763, email:
CustomerCare@asme.org;
website:
www.asme.org.
(1) ASME MFC-3M-2004, Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Orifice, Nozzle, and Venturi, issued August 15, 2005; IBR approved for § 82.25(d).
(2) ASME MFC-4M-1986 (Reaffirmed 2016), Measurement of Gas Flow by Turbine Meters, reaffirmed 2016, IBR approved for § 82.25(d).
(3) ASME MFC-5M-1985 (Reaffirmed 1994), Measurement of Liquid Flow in Closed Conduits Using Transit-Time Ultrasonic Flow Meters, copyright 1985; IBR approved for § 82.25(d).
(4) ASME MFC-6M-1998, Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Vortex Flowmeters, July 4, 1998; IBR approved for § 82.25(d).
(5) ASME MFC-7M-1987 (Reaffirmed 1992), Measurement of Gas Flow by Means of Critical Flow Venturi Nozzles, copyright 1987; IBR approved for § 82.25(d).
(6) ASME MFC-9M-1988 (Reaffirmed 2001), Measurement of Liquid Flow in Closed Conduits by Weighing Method, reaffirmed 2001; IBR approved for § 82.25(d).
(7) ASME MFC-11M-2006, Measurement of Fluid Flow by Means of Coriolis Mass Flowmeters, issued March 30, 2007; IBR approved for § 82.25(d).
(8) ASME MFC-14M-2003, Measurement of Fluid Flow Using Small Bore Precision Orifice Meters, issued April 17, 2003; IBR approved for § 82.25(d).
(c) ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428; phone: 610.832.9500; email:
service@astm.org;
website:
www.astm.org/.
(1) ASTM D6348-03 Standard Test Method for Determination of Gaseous Compounds by Extractive Direct Interface Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectroscopy, approved October 1, 2003, IBR approved for § 82.25(d).
(2) [Reserved]
(d) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20460; phone: 202.272.0167; website:
www.epa.gov.
(1) Approved Alternative Method 012: An Alternate Procedure for Stack Gas Volumetric Flow Rate Determination (Tracer Gas) (ALT-012), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Emission Measurement Center, May 23, 1994, IBR approved for § 82.25(d).
(2) Emissions Inventory Improvement Program, Volume II: Chapter 16, Methods for Estimating Air Emissions from Chemical Manufacturing Facilities, August 2007, Final, IBR approved for § 82.25(c).
(3) Protocol for Equipment Leak Emission Estimates, EPA-453/R-95-017, November 1995 (EPA-453/R-95-017), IBR approved for § 82.25(c) and (d).
(4) Protocol for Measuring Destruction or Removal Efficiency (DRE) of Fluorinated Greenhouse Gas Abatement Equipment in Electronics Manufacturing, Version 1, EPA-430-R-10-003, March 2010 (EPA 430-R-10-003), IBR approved for § 82.25 (d).
(5) Tracer Gas Protocol for the Determination of Volumetric Flow Rate Through the Ring Pipe of the Xact Multi-Metals Monitoring System, also known as Other Test Method 24 (Tracer Gas Protocol), Eli Lilly and Company Tippecanoe Laboratories, September 2006, IBR approved for § 82.25(d).
[89 FR 82450, Oct. 10, 2024]
Pt. 82, Subpt. A, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 82—Class I Controlled Substances
Class 1 controlled substances
ODP
A. Group I:
CFCl
3
-Trichlorofluoromethane (CFC-ll)
1.0
CF
2
Cl
2
-Dichlorofifluoromethane (CFC-12)
1.0
C
2
F
3
Cl
3
-Trichlorotrifluoroethane (CFC-113)
0.8
C
2
F
4
Cl
2
-Dichlorotetrafluoroethane (CFC-114)
1.0
C
2
F
5
Cl-Monochloropentafluoroethane (CFC-115)
0.6
All isomers of the above chemicals
B. Group II:
CF
2
ClBr-Bromochlorodifluoromethane (Halon-1211)
3.0
CF
3
Br-Bromotrifluoromethane (Halon-1301)
10.0
C
2
F
4
Br
2
-Dibromotetrafluoroethane (Halon-2402)
6.0
All isomers of the above chemicals
C. Group III:
CF
3
Cl-Chlorotrifluoromethane (CFC-13)
1.0
C
2
FCl
5
-(CFC-111)
1.0
C
2
F
2
Cl
4
-(CFC-112)
1.0
C
3
FCl
7
-(CFC-211)
1.0
C
3
F
2
Cl
6
-(CFC-212)
1.0
C
3
F
3
Cl
5
-(CFC-213)
1.0
C
3
F
4
Cl
4
-(CFC-214)
1.0
C
3
F
5
Cl
3
-(CFC-215)
1.0
C
3
F
6
Cl
2
-(CFC-216)
1.0
C
3
F
7
Cl-(CFC-217)
1.0
All isomers of the above chemicals
D. Group IV: CCl
4
-Carbon Tetrachloride
1.1
E. Group V:
C
2
H
3
Cl
3
-1,1,1 Trichloroethane (Methyl chloroform)
0.1
All isomers of the above chemical except 1,1,2-trichloroethane
F. Group VI: CH
3
Br—Bromomethane (Methyl Bromide)
0.7
G. Group VII:
CHFBR
2
1.00
CHF
2
Br (HBFC-2201)
0.74
CH
2
FBr
0.73
C
2
HFBr
4
0.3-0.8
C
2
HF
2
Br
3
0.5-1.8
C
2
HF
3
Br
2
0.4-1.6
C
2
HF
4
Br
0.7-1.2
C
2
H
2
FBr
3
0.1-1.1
C
2
H
2
F
2
Br
2
0.2-1.5
C
2
H
2
F
3
Br
0.7-1.6
C
2
H
2
FBr
2
0.1-1.7
C
2
H
3
F
2
Br
0.2-1.1
C
2
H
4
FBr
0.07-0.1
C
3
HFBr
6
0.3-1.5
C
3
HF
2
Br
5
0.2-1.9
C
3
HF
3
Br
4
0.3-1.8
C
3
HF
4
Br
3
0.5-2.2
C
3
HF
5
Br
2
0.9-2.0
C
3
HF
6
Br
0.7-3.3
C
3
H
2
FBR
5
0.1-1.9
C
3
H
2
F
2
BR
4
0.2-2.1
C
3
H
2
F
3
Br
3
0.2-5.6
C
3
H
2
F
4
Br
2
0.3-7.5
C
3
H
2
F
5
BR
0.9-14
C
3
H
3
FBR
4
0.08-1.9
C
3
H
3
F
2
Br
3
0.1-3.1
C
3
H
3
F
3
Br
2
0.1-2.5
C
3
H
3
F
4
Br
0.3-4.4
C
3
H
4
FBr
3
0.03-0.3
C
3
H
4
F
2
Br
2
0.1-1.0
C
3
H
4
F
3
Br
0.07-0.8
C
3
H
5
FBr
2
0.04-0.4
C
3
H
5
F
2
Br
0.07-0.8
C
3
H
6
FB
0.02-0.7
H. Group VIII:
CH2BrCl (Chlorobromomethane 0.12
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 68 FR 42892, July 18, 2003]
Pt. 82, Subpt. A, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart A of Part 82—Class II Controlled Substances
a
b
Controlled substance
ODP
1. HCFC-21 (CHFCl2) Dichlorofluoromethane
0.04
2. HCFC-22 (CHF2Cl) Monochlorodifluoromethane
0.055
3. HCFC-31 (CH2FCl) Monochlorofluoromethane
0.02
4. HCFC-121 (C2HFCl4) Tetrachlorofluoroethane
0.01-0.04
5. HCFC-122 (C2HF2Cl3) Trichlorodifluoroethane
0.02-0.08
6. HCFC-123 (C2HF3Cl2) Dichlorotrifluoroethane
0.02
7. HCFC-124 (C2HF4Cl) Monochlorotetrafluoroethane
0.022
8. HCFC-131 (C2H2FCl3) Trichlorofluoroethane
0.007-0.05
9. HCFC-132 (C2H2F2Cl2) Dichlorodifluoroethane
0.008-0.05
10. HCFC-133 (C2H2F3Cl) Monochlorotrifluoroethane
0.02-0.06
11. HCFC-141 (C2H3FCl2) Dichlorofluoroethane
0.005-0.07
12. HCFC-141b (CH3CFCl2) Dichlorofluoroethane
0.11
13. HCFC-142 (C2H3F2Cl) Chlorodifluoroethane
0.008-0.07
14. HCFC-142b (CH3CF2Cl) Monochlorodifluoroethane
0.065
15. HCFC-151 (C2H4FCl) Chlorofluoroethane
0.003-0.005
16. HCFC-221 (C3HFCl6) Hexachlorofluoropropane
0.015-0.07
17. HCFC-222 (C3HF2Cl5) Pentachlorodifluoropropane
0.01-0.09
18. HCFC-223 (C3HF3Cl4) Tetrachlorotrifluoropropane
0.01-0.08
19. HCFC-224 (C3HF4Cl3) Trichlorotetrafluoropropane
0.01-0.09
20. HCFC-225 (C3HF5Cl2) Dichloropentafluoropropane
0.02-0.07
21. HCFC-225ca (CF3CF2CHCl2) Dichloropentafluoropropane
0.025
22. HCFC-225cb (CF2ClCF2CHClF) Dichloropentafluoropropane
0.033
23. HCFC-226 (C3HF6Cl) Monochlorohexafluoropropane
0.02-0.1
24. HCFC-231 (C3H2FCl5) Pentachlorofluoropropane
0.05-0.09
25. HCFC-232 (C3H2F2Cl4) Tetrachlorodifluoropropane
0.008-0.1
26. HCFC-233 (C3H2F3Cl3) Trichlorotrifluoropropane
0.007-0.23
27. HCFC-234 (C3H2F4Cl2) Dichlorotetrafluoropropane
0.01-0.28
28. HCFC-235 (C3H2F5Cl) Monochloropentafluoropropane
0.03-0.52
29. HCFC-241 (C3H3FCl4) Tetrachlorofluoropropane
0.004-0.09
30. HCFC-242 (C3H3F2Cl3) Trichlorodifluoropropane
0.005-0.13
31. HCFC-243 (C3H3F3Cl2) Dichlorotrifluoropropane
0.007-0.12
32. HCFC-244 (C3H3F4Cl) Monochlorotetrafluoropropane
0.009-0.14
33. HCFC-251 (C3H4FCl3) Monochlorotetrafluoropropane
0.001-0.01
34. HCFC-252 (C3H4F2Cl2) Dichlorodifluoropropane
0.005-0.04
35. HCFC-253 (C3H4F3Cl) Monochlorotrifluoropropane
0.003-0.03
36. HCFC-261 (C3H5FCl2) Dichlorofluoropropane
0.002-0.02
37. HCFC-262 (C3H5F2Cl) Monochlorodifluoropropane
0.002-0.02
38. HCFC-271 (C3H6FCl) Monochlorofluoropropane
0.001-0.03
a
According to Annex C of the Montreal Protocol, “Where a range of ODPs is indicated, the highest value in that range shall be used for the purposes of the Protocol. The ODPs listed as single value have been determined from calculations based on laboratory measurements. Those listed as a range are based on estimates and are less certain. The range pertains to an isomeric group. The upper value is the estimate of the ODP of the isomer with the highest ODP, and the lower value is the estimate of the ODP of the isomer with the lowest ODP.
b
This table includes all isomers of the substances above, regardless of whether the isomer is explicitly listed on its own.
[79 FR 64288, Oct. 28, 2014]
Appendix C to Subpart A of Part 82 [Reserved]
Pt. 82, Subpt. A, App. D

# Appendix D to Subpart A of Part 82—Harmonized Tariff Schedule Description of Products That May Contain Controlled Substances in Appendix A, Class I, Groups I and II
This appendix is based on information provided by the Ozone Secretariat of the United Nations Ozone Environment Programme.**
The Appendix lists available U.S. harmonized tariff schedule codes identifying headings and subheadings for Annex D products that may contain controlled substances.
** “A Note Regarding the Harmonized System Code Numbers for the Products Listed in Annex D.” Adopted by Decision IV/15 paragraph 3, of the Fourth Meeting of the Parties in Copenhagen, 23-25 November, 1992.
The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States uses an enumeration system to identify products imported and exported to and from the U.S. This system relies on a four digit heading, a four digit subheading and additional two digit statistical suffix to characterize products. The United States uses the suffix for its own statistical records and analyses. This Appendix lists only headings and subheadings.
While some can be readily associated with harmonized system codes, many products cannot be tied to HS classifications unless their exact composition and the presentation are known. It should be noted that the specified HS classifications represent the most likely headings and subheadings which may contain substances controlled by the Montreal Protocol. The codes given should only be used as a starting point; further verfication is needed to ascertain whether or not the products actually contain controlled substances.

# Category 1. Automobile and Truck Air Conditioning Units (whether incorporated in vehicles or not)
There are no separate code numbers for air conditioning units specially used in automobiles and trucks. Although a code has been proposed for car air conditioners, it is not yet officially listed in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (see category 2). The following codes apply to the vehicles potentially containing air conditioning units.
Heading/Subheading
Article Description
8701.(10, 20, 30, 90)***
Tractors.
8702
Public-transport type passenger motor vehicles.
8702.10
With compression-ignition internal-combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel).
8702.90
Other.
8703
Motor cars and other motor vehicles principally designed for the transport of persons (other than those of heading 8702), including station wagons and racing cars.
8703.10
Vehicles specially designed for traveling on snow; golf carts and similar vehicles; includes subheading 10.10 and 10.50.
8703.(21, 22, 23, 24)
Other vehicles, with spark-ignition internal combustion reciprocating engines.
8703.(31, 32, 33, 90)
Other vehicles, with compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel).
8704
Motor vehicles for the transport of goods.
8704.10.(10, 50)
Dumpers designed for off-highway use.
8704.(21, 22, 23)
Other, with compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel).
8704.(31, 32, 90)
Other, with compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine.
8705
Special purpose motor vehicles, other than those principally designed for the transport of persons or goods (for example, wreckers, mobile cranes, fire fighting vehicles, concrete mixers, road sweepers, spraying vehicles, mobile workshops, mobile radiological units).
8705.10
Crane lorries.
8705.20
Mobile drilling derricks.
8705.30
Fire fighting vehicles.
8705.90
Other.
***At this time vehicle air conditioning units are considered components of vehicles or are classified under the general category for air conditioning and refrigeration equipment. Vehicles containing air conditioners are therefore considered products containing controlled substances.

# Category 2. Domestic and Commercial Refrigeration and Air Conditioning/Heat Pump Equipment
Domestic and commercial air conditioning and refrigeration equipment fall primarily under headings 8415 and 8418.
Heading/Subheading
Article Description
8415
Air conditioning machines, comprising a motor-driven fan and elements for changing the temperature and humidity, including those machines in which the humidity cannot be separately regulated.
8415.20
Proposed code for air conditioning of a kind used for persons, in motor vehicles.
8415.10.00
A/C window or wall types, self-contained.
8415.81.00
Other, except parts, incorporating a refrigerating unit and a valve for reversal of the cooling/heat cycle.
8415.82.00
Other, incorporating a refrigerating unit—
Self-contained machines and remote condenser type air conditioners (not for year-round use).
Year-round units (for heating and cooling).
Air Conditioning evaporator coils.
Dehumidifiers.
Other air conditioning machines incorporating a refrigerating unit.
8415.83
Automotive air conditioners.
8418
Refrigerators, freezers and other refrigerating or freezing equipment, electric or other; heat pumps, other than air conditioning machines of heading 8415; parts thereof.
8418.10.00
Combined refrigerator-freezers, fitted with separate external doors.
8418.21.00
Refrigerators, household type, Compression type.
8418.22.00
Absorption type, electrical.
8418.29.00
Other.
8418.30.00
Freezers of the chest type.
8418.40
Freezers of the upright type.
8418.50.0040
Other refrigerating or freezing chests, cabinets, display counters, showcases and similar refrigerating or freezing furniture.
8418.61.00
Other refrigerating or freezing equipment; heat pumps.
8418.69
Other—
Icemaking machines.
Drinking water coolers, self-contained.
Soda fountain and beer dispensing equipment.
Centrifugal liquid chilling refrigerating units.
Absorption liquid chilling units.
Reciprocating liquid chilling units.
Other refrigerating or freezing equipment (household or other).
8479.89.10
Dehumidifiers (other than those under 8415 or 8424 classified as “machines and mechanical appliances having individual functions, not specified or included elsewhere”).

# Category 3. Aerosol Products
An array of different products use controlled substances as aerosols and in aerosol applications. Not all aerosol applications use controlled substances, however. The codes given below represent the most likely classifications for products containing controlled substances. The product codes listed include ****
:
**** Other categories of products that may contain controlled substances are listed below. EPA is currently working to match them with appropriate codes. They include: coatings and electronic equipment (e.g., electrical motors), coatings or cleaning fluids for aircraft maintenance, mold release agents (e.g. for production of plastic or elastomeric materials), water and oil repellant (potentially under HS 3402), spray undercoats (potentially under “paints and varnishes”), spot removers, brake cleaners, safety sprays (e.g., mace cans), animal repellant, noise horns (e.g., for use on boats), weld inspection developers, freezants, gum removers, intruder alarms, tire inflators, dusters (for electronic and non-electronic applications), spray shoe polish, and suede protectors.
• varnishes
• perfumes
• preparations for use on hair
• preparations for oral and dental hygiene
• shaving preparations
• personal deodorants, bath preparations
• prepared room deodorizers
• soaps
• lubricants
• polishes and creams
• explosives
• insecticides, fungicides, herbicides, disinfectants
• arms and ammunition
• household products such as footwear or leather polishes
• other miscellaneous products
Heading/Subheading
Article Description
3208
Paints and varnishes ***** (including enamels and lacquers) based on synthetic polymers of chemically modified natural polymers, dispersed or dissolved in a non-aqueous medium.
3208.10
Based on polyesters.
3208.20
Based on acrylic or vinyl polymers.
3208.90
Other.
3209
Paints and varnishes (including enamels and lacquers) based on synthetic polymers or chemically modified natural polymers, dispersed or dissolved in an aqueous medium.
3209.10
Based on acrylic or vinyl polymers.
3209.90
Other.
3210.00
Other paints and varnishes (including enamels, lacquers and distempers) and prepared water pigments of a kind used for finishing leather.
3212.90
Dyes and other coloring matter put up in forms or packings for retail sale.
3303.00
Perfumes and toilet waters.
3304.30
Manicure or pedicure preparations.
3305.10
Shampoos.
3305.20
Preparations for permanent waving or straightening.
3305.30
Hair lacquers.
3305.90
Other hair preparations.
3306.10
Dentrifices.
3306.90
Other dental (this may include breath sprays).
3307.10
Pre-shave, shaving or after-shave preparations.
3307.20
Personal deodorants and antiperspirants.
3307.30
Perfumed bath salts and other bath preparations.
3307.49
Other (this may include preparations for perfuming or deodorizing rooms, including odoriferous preparations used during religious rites, whether or not perfumed or having disinfectant properties).
3307.90
Other (this may include depilatory products and other perfumery, cosmetic or toilet preparations, not elsewhere specified or included)
3403
Lubricating preparations (including cutting-oil preparations, bolt or nut release preparations, anti-rust or anti-corrosion preparations and mould release preparations, based on lubricants), and preparations of a kind used for the oil or grease treatment of textile materials, leather, fur skins or other materials, but excluding preparations containing, as basic constituents, 70 percent or more by weight of petroleum oils or of oils obtained from bituminous minerals.
3402
Organic surface-active agents (other than soap); surface-active preparations, washing preparations and cleaning operations, whether or not containing soap, other than those of 3401.
3402.20
Preparations put up for retail sale.
3402.19
Other preparations containing petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals.
3403
Lubricating preparations consisting of mixtures containing silicone greases or oils, as the case may be.
2710.00
Preparations not elsewhere specified or included, containing by weight 70 percent or more of petroleum oils or of oils obtained from bituminous minerals, these oils being the basic constituents of the preparations.
3403.11
Lubricants containing petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals used for preparations from the treatment of textile materials, leather, fur skins or other materials.
3403.19
Other preparations containing petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals.
3405
Polishes and creams, for footwear, furniture, floors, coachwork, glass or metal, scouring pastes and powders and similar preparations excluding waxes of heading 3404.
3405.10
Polishes and creams for footwear or leather.
3405.20
Polishes for wooden furniture, floors or other woodwork.
36
Explosives.
3808
Insecticides, rodenticides, fungicides, herbicides, anti-sprouting products and plant-growth regulators, disinfectants and similar products, put up in forms or packings for retail sale or as preparations or articles (for example, sulphur-treated bands, wicks and candles, and fly papers).
3808.10
Insecticides.
3808.20
Fungicides.
3808.30
Herbicides, anti-sprouting products and plant growth regulators.
3808.40
Disinfectants.
3808.90
Other insecticides, fungicides.
3809.10
Finishing agents, dye carriers to accelerate the dyeing or fixing of dye-stuffs and other products and preparations (for example, dressings and mordants) of a kind used in the textile, paper, leather or like industries, not elsewhere specified or included, with a basis of amylaceous substances.
3814
Organic composite solvents and thinners (not elsewhere specified or included) and the prepared paint or varnish removers.
3910
Silicones in primary forms.
9304
Other arms (for example, spring, air or gas guns and pistols, truncheons), excluding those of heading No. 93.07. Thus, aerosol spray cans containing tear gas may be classified under this subheading.
0404.90
Products consisting of natural milk constituents, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, not elsewhere specified or included.
1517.90
Edible mixtures or preparations of animal or vegetable fats or oils or of fractions of different fats or oils of this chapter, other than edible fats or oils or their fractions of heading No. 15.16.
2106.90
Food preparations not elsewhere specified or included.
***** Although paints do not generally use contain controlled substances, some varnishes use CFC 113 and 1,1,1,trichlorethane as solvents.

# Category 4. Portable Fire Extinguishers
Heading/Subheading
Article Description
8424
Mechanical appliances (whether or not hand operated) for projecting, dispersing, or spraying liquids or powders; fire extinguishers whether or not charged, spray guns and similar appliances; steam or sand blasting machines and similar jet projecting machines.
8424.10
Fire extinguishers, whether or not charged.

# Category 5. Insulation Boards, Panels and Pipe Covers
These goods have to be classified according to their composition and presentation. For example, if the insulation materials are made of polyurethane, polystyrene, polyolefin and phenolic plastics, then they may be classified Chapter 39, for “Plastics and articles thereof”. The exact description of the products at issue is necessary before a classification can be given. ******
****** This category may include insulating board for building panels and windows and doors. It also includes rigid appliance insulation for pipes, tanks, trucks, trailers, containers, train cars
ships, refrigerators, freezers, beverage vending machines, bulk beverage dispensers, water coolers and heaters and ice machines.
Heading/Subheading
Article Description
3917.21 to 3917.39
Tubes, pipes and hoses of plastics.
3920.10 to 3920.99
Plates, sheets, film, foil and strip made of plastics, non-cellular and not reinforced, laminated, supported or similarly combined with other materials.
3921.11 to 3921.90
Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, made of plastics.
3925.90
Builders' ware made of plastics, not elsewhere specified or included.
3926.90
Articles made of plastics, not elsewhere specified or included.

# Category 6. Pre-Polymers
According to the Explanatory Notes to the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System, “prepolymers are products which are characterized by some repetition of monomer units although they may contain unreacted monomers. Prepolymers are not normally used as such but are intended to be transformed into higher molecular weight polymers by further polymerization. Therefore the term does not cover finished products, such as di-isobutylenes or mixed polyethylene glycols with very low molecular weight. Examples are epoxides based with epichlorohydrin, and polymeric isocyanates.”
Heading/Subheading
Article Description
3901
Pre-polymers based on ethylene (in primary forms).
3902
Pre-polymers based on propylene or other olefins (in primary forms).
3903, 3907, 3909
Pre-polymers based on styrene (in primary forms), epoxide and phenols.
Pt. 82, Subpt. A, App. E

# Appendix E to Subpart A of Part 82—Article 5 Parties
Parties operating under Article 5 of the Montreal Protocol as of March 26, 2014 are listed below. An updated list can be located at:
http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/parties_under_article5_para1.php.
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Congo (Democratic Republic of), Cook Islands, Cost Rica, Côte d'Ivoire, Cuba, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Gambia, Georgia, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kiribati, Korea (Democratic People's Republic of), Korea (Republic of), Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao (People's Democratic Republic), Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federal States of), Moldova (Republic of), Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Niue, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent
the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, South Sudan*, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tanzania (United Republic of), Thailand, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
* temporarily categorized as Article 5 pending submission of ODS consumption data
[79 FR 16687, Mar. 26, 2014]
Pt. 82, Subpt. A, App. F

# Appendix F to Subpart A of Part 82—Listing of Ozone-Depleting Chemicals
Controlled substance
ODP
AT L
CLP
BLP
A. Class I:
1. Group I:
CFCl
3
-Trichlorofluoromethane (CFC-11)
1.0
60.0
1.0
0.00
CF
2
Cl
2
-Dichlorodifluoromethane (CFC-12)
1.0
120.0
1.5
0.00
C
2
F
3
Cl
3
-Trichlorotrifluoroethane (CFC-113)
0.8
90.0
1.11
0.00
C
2
F
4
Cl
2
-Dichlorotetrafluoroethane (CFC-114)
1.0
200.00
1.8
0.00
C
2
F
5
Cl-Monochloropentafluoroethane (CFC-115)
0.6
400.0
2.0
0.00
All isomers of the above chemicals
[Reserved]
2. Group II:
CF
2
ClBr-Bromochlorodifluoromethane (Halon-1211)
3.0
12
0.06
0.13
−18
−.08
−.03
CF
3
Br-Bromotrifluoromethane (Halon-1301)
10.0
72
0.00
1.00
−107
C
2
F
4
Br
2
-Dibromotetrafluoroethane (Halon-2402)
6.0
23
0.00
0.30
−28
−.37
All isomers of the above chemicals
[Reserved]
3. Group III:
CF
3
Cl-Chlorotrifluoromethane (CFC-13)
1.0
120
0.88
0.00
−250
−1.83
C
2
FCl
5
- (CFC-111)
1.0
60
1.04
0.00
−90
−1.56
C
2
F
2
Cl
4
- (CFC-112)
1.0
60
0.90
0.00
−90
−1.35
C
3
FCl
7
- (CFC-211)
1.0
100
1.76
0.00
−500
−8.81
C
3
F
2
Cl
6
- (CFC-212)
1.0
100
1.60
0.00
−500
−7.98
C
3
F
3
Cl
5
- (CFC-213)
1.0
100
1.41
0.00
−500
−7.06
C
3
F
4
Cl
4
- (CFC-214)
1.0
100
1.20
0.00
−500
−6.01
C
3
F
5
Cl
3
-(CFC-215)
1.0
100
0.96
0.00
−500
−4.82
C
3
F
6
Cl
2
- (CFC-216)
1.0
100
0.69
0.00
−500
−3.45
C
3
F
7
Cl- (CFC-217)
1.0
100
0.37
0.00
−500
−1.87
All isomers of the above chemicals
[Reserved]
4. Group IV:
CCl
4
-Carbon Tetrachloride
1.1
50.0
1.0
0.00
5. Group V:
C
2
H
3
Cl
3
-1,1,1 Trichloroethane (Methyl chloroform)
0.1
6.3
0.11
0.00
All isomers of the above chemical except 1,1,2-trichloroethane
[Reserved]
6. Group VI:
CH3Br-Bromomethane (Methyl Bromide)
0.7
[Reserved]
7. Group VII:
CHFBr
2
-
1.00
[Reserved]
CHF
2
Br-(HBFC-22B1)
0.74
[Reserved]
CH
2
FBr
0.73
[Reserved]
C
2
HFBr
4
0.3-0.8
[Reserved]
C
2
HF
2
Br
3
0.5-1.8
[Reserved]
C
2
HF
3
Br
2
0.4-16
[Reserved]
C
2
HF
4
Br
0.7-1.2
[Reserved]
C
2
H
2
FBr
3
0.1-1.1
[Reserved]
C
2
H
2
F
2
Br
2
0.2-1.5
[Reserved]
C
2
H
2
F
3
Br
0.7-1.6
[Reserved]
C
2
H
3
FBr
2
0.1-1.7
[Reserved]
C
2
H
3
F
2
Br
0.2-1.1
[Reserved]
C
2
H
4
FBr
0.07-0.1
[Reserved]
C
3
HFBr
6
0.3-1.5
[Reserved]
C
3
HF
2
Br
5
0.2-1.9
[Reserved]
C
3
HF
3
Br
4
0.3-1.8
[Reserved]
C
3
HF
4
Br
3
0.5-2.2
[Reserved]
C
3
HF
5
Br
2
0.9-2.0
[Reserved]
C
3
HF
6
Br
0.7-3.3
[Reserved]
C
3
H
2
FBr
5
0.1-1.9
[Reserved]
C
3
H
2
F
2
Br
4
0.2-2.1
[Reserved]
C
3
H
2
F
3
Br
3
0.2-5.6
[Reserved]
C
3
H
2
F
4
Br
2
0.3-7.5
[Reserved]
C
3
H
2
F
5
Br
0.9-1.4
[Reserved]
C
3
H
3
FBR
4
0.08-1.9
[Reserved]
C
3
H
3
F
2
Br
3
0.1-3.1
[Reserved]
C
3
H
3
F
3
Br
2
0.1-2.5
[Reserved]
C
3
H
3
F
4
Br
0.3-4.4
[Reserved]
C
3
H
4
FBr
3
0.03-0.3
[Reserved]
C
3
H
4
F
2
Br
2
0.1-1.0
[Reserved]
C
3
H
4
F
3
Br
0.07-0.8
[Reserved]
C
3
H
5
FBr
2
0.04-0.4
[Reserved]
C
3
H
5
F
2
Br
0.07-0.8
[Reserved]
C
3
H
6
FB
0.02-0.7
[Reserved]
8. Group VIII:
CH
2
BrCl (Chlorobromomethane)
0.12
[Reserved]
B. Class II:
CHFCl
2
-Dichlorofluoromethane (HCFC-21)
[Reserved]
2.1
0.03
0.00
CHF
2
Cl-Chlorodifluoromethane (HCFC-22)
0.05
15.3
0.14
0.00
CH
2
FCl-Chlorofluoromethane (HCFC-31)
[Reserved]
1.44
0.02
0.00
C
2
HFCl
4
- (HCFC-121)
[Reserved]
0.6
0.01
0.00
C
2
HF
2
Cl
3
- (HCFC-122)
[Reserved]
1.4
0.02
0.00
C
2
HF
3
Cl
2
- (HCFC-123)
0.02
1.6
0.016
0.00
C
2
HF
4
Cl- (HCFC-124)
0.02
6.6
0.04
0.00
C
2
H
2
FCl
3
- (HCFC-131)
[Reserved]
4.0
0.06
0.00
C
2
H
2
F
2
Cl
2
- (HCFC-132b)
[Reserved]
4.2
0.05
0.00
C
2
H
2
F
3
Cl- (HCFC-133a)
[Reserved]
4.8
0.03
0.00
C
2
H
3
FCl
2
- (HCFC-141b)
0.12
7.8
0.10
0.00
C
2
H
3
F
2
Cl- (HCFC-142b)
0.06
19.1
0.14
0.00
C
3
HFCl
6
- (HCFC-221)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
HF
2
Cl
5
- (HCFC-222)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
HF
3
Cl
4
- (HCFC-223)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
HF
4
Cl
3
- (HCFC-224)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
HF
5
Cl
2
- (HCFC-225ca)
[Reserved]
1.5
0.01
0.00
−1.7
(HCFC-225cb)
[Reserved]
5.1
0.04
0.00
C
3
HF
6
Cl- (HCFC-226)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
H
2
FCl
5
- (HCFC-231)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
H
2
F
2
4
- (HCFC-232)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
H
2
F
3
Cl
3
- (HCFC-233)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
H
2
F
4
Cl
2
- (HCFC-234)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
H
2
F
5
Cl- (HCFC-235)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
H
3
FCl
4
- (HCFC-241)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
H
3
F
2
Cl
3
- (HCFC-242)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
H
3
F
3
Cl
2
- (HCFC-243)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
H
3
F
4
Cl- (HCFC-244)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
H
4
FCl
3
- (HCFC-251)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
H
4
F
2
Cl
2
- (HCFC-252)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
H
4
F
3
Cl- (HCFC-253)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
H
5
FCl
2
- (HCFC-261)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
2
H
5
F
2
Cl- (HCFC-262)
[Reserved]
0.00
C
3
H
6
FCl- (HCFC-271)
[Reserved]
0.00
All isomers of the above chemicals
[Reserved]
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 68 FR 42894, July 18, 2003]
Pt. 82, Subpt. A, App. G

# Appendix G to Subpart A of Part 82—UNEP Recommendations for Conditions Applied to Exemption for Essential Laboratory and Analytical Uses
1. Essential laboratory and analytical uses are identified at this time to include equipment calibration; use as extraction solvents, diluents, or carriers for chemical analysis; biochemical research; inert solvents for chemical reactions, as a carrier or laboratory chemical and other critical analytical and laboratory purposes. Pursuant to Decision XI/15 of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol, effective January 1, 2002 the following uses of class I controlled substances are not considered essential under the global laboratory exemption:
a. Testing of oil and grease and total petroleum hydrocarbons in water;
b. Testing of tar in road-paving materials; and
c. Forensic finger printing.
Production for essential laboratory and analytical purposes is authorized provided that these laboratory and analytical chemicals shall contain only controlled substances manufactured to the following purities:
CTC (reagent grade)—99.5
1,1,1,-trichloroethane—99.5
CFC-11—99.5
CFC-13—99.5
CFC-12—99.5
CFC-113—99.5
CFC-114—99.5
Other w/ Boiling P
20 degrees C—99.5
Other w/ Boiling P
20 degrees C—99.0
d. Testing of organic matter in coal.
2. These pure, controlled substances can be subsequently mixed by manufacturers, agents or distributors with other chemicals controlled or not controlled by the Montreal Protocol as is customary for laboratory and analytical uses.
3. These high purity substances and mixtures containing controlled substances shall be supplied only in re-closable containers or high pressure cylinders smaller than three litres or in 10 millilitre or smaller glass ampoules, marked clearly as substances that deplete the ozone layer, restricted to laboratory use and analytical purposes and specifying that used or surplus substances should be collected and recycled, if practical. The material should be destroyed if recycling is not practical.
4. Parties shall annually report for each controlled substance produced: the purity; the quantity; the application, specific test standard, or procedure requiring its uses; and the status of efforts to eliminate its use in each application. Parties shall also submit copies of published instructions, standards, specifications, and regulations requiring the use of the controlled substance.
5. Pursuant to Decision XVIII/15 of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol, methyl bromide is exempted for the following approved essential laboratory and analytical purposes listed in following items (a) through (d). Use of methyl bromide for field trials is not an approved use under the global laboratory and analytical use exemption. The provisions of Appendix G, paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4), regarding purity, mixing, container, and reporting requirements for other exempt ODSs, also apply to the use of methyl bromide under this exemption.
a. Methyl bromide is exempted as an approved essential laboratory and analytical use as a reference or standard to calibrate equipment which uses methyl bromide, to monitor methyl bromide emission levels, or to determine methyl bromide residue levels in goods, plants and commodities;
b. Methyl bromide is exempted as an approved essential laboratory and analytical when used in laboratory toxicological studies;
c. Methyl bromide is exempted as an approved essential laboratory and analytical use to compare the efficacy of methyl bromide and its alternatives inside a laboratory; and
d. Methyl bromide is exempted as an approved essential laboratory and analytical use as a laboratory agent which is destroyed in a chemical reaction in the manner of feedstock.
[60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 67 FR 6362, Feb. 11, 2002; 72 FR 73269, Dec. 27, 2007]
Pt. 82, Subpt. A, App. H

# Appendix H to Subpart A of Part 82—Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 Phaseout Schedule for Production of Ozone-Depleting Substances
Date
Carbon tetrachloride (percent)
Methyl chloroform (percent)
Other class substances (percent)
1994
70
85
65
1995
15
70
50
1996
15
50
40
1997
15
50
15
1998
15
50
15
1999
15
50
15
2000
20
2001
20
Pt. 82, Subpt. A, App. I

# Appendix I to Subpart A of Part 82—Global Warming Potentials (Mass Basis), Referenced to the Absolute GWP for the Adopted Carbon Cycle Model CO
2

# Decay Response and Future CO
2

# Atmospheric Concentrations Held Constant at Current Levels. (Only Direct Effects Are Considered.)
Species (chemical)
Chemical formula
Global warming potential (time horizon)
20 years
100 years
500 years
CFC-11
CFCl
3
5000
4000
1400
CFC-12
CF
2
Cl
2
7900
8500
4200
CFC-13
CClF
3
8100
11700
13600
CFC-113
C
2
F
3
Cl
3
5000
5000
2300
CFC-114
C
2
F
4
Cl
2
6900
9300
8300
CFC-115
C
2
F
5
Cl
6200
9300
13000
H-1301
CF
3
Br
6200
5600
2200
Carbon Tet
CCl
4
2000
1400
500
Methyl Chl
CH
3
CCl
3
360
110
35
HCFC-22
CF
2
HCl
4300
1700
520
HCFC-141b
C
2
FH
3
Cl
2
1800
630
200
HCFC-142b
C
2
F
2
H
3
Cl
4200
2000
630
HCFC-123
C
2
F
3
HCl
2
300
93
29
HCFC-124
C
2
F
4
HCl
1500
480
150
HCFC-225ca
C
3
F
5
HCl
2
550
170
52
HCFC-225cb
C
3
F
5
HCl
2
1700
530
170
AUnited Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), February 1995, Scientific Assessment of Ozone Depletion: 1994, Chapter 13, “Ozone Depleting Potentials, Global Warming Potentials and Future Chlorine/Bromine Loading,” and do not reflect review of scientific documents published after that date.
[61 FR 1285, Jan. 19, 1996]
Appendix J to Subpart A of Part 82—Parties to the Montreal Protocol Classied Under Article 5(1) That Have Banned the Import of Controlled Products That Rely on Class I Controlled Substances for Their Continuing Functioning [Reserved]
Pt. 82, Subpt. A, App. K

# Appendix K to Subpart A of Part 82—Commodity Codes From the Harmonized Tariff Schedule for Controlled Substances and Used Controlled Substances
Description of commodity or chemical
Commodity code from harmonized tariff schedule
Class II:
HCFC-22 (Chlorodifluoromethane)
2903.71.0000
HCFC-123 (Dichlorotrifluoroethane)
2903.72.0020
HCFC-124 (Monochlorotetrafluoroethane)
2903.79.1000
HCFC-141b (Dichlorofluoroethane)
2903.73.0000
HCFC-142b (Chlorodifluoroethane)
2903.74.0000
HCFC-225ca, HCFC-225cb (Dichloropentafluoropropanes)
2903.75.0000
HCFC-21, HCFC-31, HCFC-133, and other HCFCs
2903.79.9070
HCFC Mixtures (R-401A, R-402A, etc.)
3824.74.0000
Class I:
CFC-11 (Trichlorofluoromethane)
2903.77.0010
CFC-12 (Dichlorodifluoromethane)
2903.77.0050
CFC-113 (Trichlorotrifluoroethane)
2903.77.0020
CFC-114 (Dichlorotetrafluoroethane)
2903.77.0030
CFC-115 (Monochloropentafluoroethane)
2903.77.0040
CFC-13, CFC-111, CFC-112, CFC-211, CFC-212, CFC-213, CFC-214, CFC-215, CFC-216, CFC-217, and other CFCs
2903.77.0080
CFC Mixtures (R-500, R-502, etc.)
3824.71.0100
Carbon Tetrachloride
2903.14.0000
Halon 1301 (Bromotrifluoromethane)
2903.76.0010
Halon, other
2903.76.0050
Methyl Bromide
2903.39.1520
Methyl Chloroform
2903.19.6010
[85 FR 15299, Mar. 17, 2020]
Pt. 82, Subpt. A, App. L

# Appendix L to Subpart A of Part 82—Approved Critical Uses and Limiting Critical Conditions for Those Uses
Column A
Column B
Column C
Approved Critical Uses
Approved Critical User, Location of Use
Limiting Critical Conditions
that exist, or that the approved critical user reasonably expects could arise without methyl bromide fumigation:
PRE-PLANT USES
Strawberry Fruit
California growers in 2015 and 2016.
Moderate to severe black root rot or crown rot
Moderate to severe yellow or purple nutsedge infestation
Moderate to severe nematode infestation
Local township limits prohibiting 1,3-dichloropropene
POST-HARVEST USES
Dry Cured Pork Products
Members of the National Country Ham Association and the American Association of Meat Processors, Nahunta Pork Center (North Carolina), and Gwaltney of Smithfield Inc.
Red legged ham beetle infestation
Cheese/ham skipper infestation
Dermestid beetle infestation
Ham mite infestation
[80 FR 61992, Oct. 15, 2015]

# Subpart B—Servicing of Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners

# Source:
57 FR 31261, July 14, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 82.30
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of the regulations in this subpart B is to implement section 609 of the Clean Air Act, as amended (Act) regarding the servicing of motor vehicle air conditioners (MVACs), and to implement section 608 of the Act regarding certain servicing, maintenance, repair and disposal of air conditioners in MVACs and MVAC-like appliances (as that term is defined in 40 CFR 82.152).
(b) These regulations apply to any person performing service on a motor vehicle for consideration when this service involves the refrigerant in the motor vehicle air conditioner.
[57 FR 31261, July 14, 1992, as amended at 62 FR 68046, Dec. 30, 1997]
§ 82.31
Incorporation by reference.
(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this subpart part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You can obtain the material from the sources listed in paragraph (b) of this section. You may inspect a copy of the approved material at U.S. EPA's Air and Radiation Docket; EPA West Building, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fedreg.legal@nara.gov
or go to
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
(b) SAE International. SAE Customer Service, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001 USA; Email:
CustomerService@sae.org;
Telephone: 1-877-606-7323 (U.S. and Canada only) or 1-724-776-4970 (outside the U.S. and Canada); internet address:
http://store.sae.org/dlabout.htm.
(1) SAE J2843
TM
. R-1234yf (HFO-1234yf) Recovery/Recycling/Recharging Equipment for Flammable Refrigerants for Mobile Air-Conditioning Systems. Revised July 2019; IBR approved for § 82.36(a).
(2) SAE J2851. Recovery Equipment for Contaminated R-134a or R-1234yf Refrigerant from Mobile Automotive Air Conditioning Systems. Revised February 2015; IBR approved for § 82.36(a).
(3) SAE J3030. Automotive Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling/Recharging Equipment Intended for use with Both R-1234yf and R-134a. Issued July 2015 (
Note:
SAE J3030 heading says “revised”); IBR approved for § 82.36(a).
[86 FR 15595, Mar. 24, 2021]
§ 82.32
Definitions.
(a)
Approved independent standards testing organization
means any organization which has applied for and received approval from the Administrator pursuant to § 82.38.
(b)
Approved refrigerant recycling equipment
means equipment certified by the Administrator or an organization approved under § 82.38 as meeting either one of the standards in § 82.36. Such equipment extracts and recycles refrigerant or extracts refrigerant for recycling on-site or reclamation off-site.
(c)
Motor vehicle
as used in this subpart means any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed for transporting persons or property on a street or highway, including but not limited to passenger cars, light duty vehicles, and heavy duty vehicles. This definition does not include a vehicle where final assembly of the vehicle has not been completed by the original equipment manufacturer.
(d)
Motor vehicle air conditioners
means mechanical vapor compression refrigeration equipment used to cool the driver's or passenger's compartment of any motor vehicle. This definition is not intended to encompass the hermetically sealed refrigeration systems used on motor vehicles for refrigerated cargo and the air conditioning systems on passenger buses using HCFC-22 refrigerant.
(e)
Properly using.
(1) Properly using means using equipment in conformity with the regulations set forth in this subpart, including but not limited to the prohibitions and required practices
set forth in § 82.34, and the recommended service procedures and practices for the containment of refrigerant set forth in § 82.36(a) and appendices A, B, C, D, E, and F to this subpart, as applicable. In addition, this term includes operating the equipment in accordance with the manufacturer's guide to operation and maintenance and using the equipment only for the controlled substance for which the machine is designed. For equipment that extracts and recycles refrigerant, properly using also means to recycle refrigerant before it is returned to a motor vehicle air conditioner or MVAC-like appliance, including to the motor vehicle air conditioner or MVAC-like appliance from which the refrigerant was extracted. For equipment that only recovers refrigerant, properly using includes the requirement to recycle the refrigerant on-site or send the refrigerant off-site for reclamation.
(2) Refrigerant from reclamation facilities that is used for the purpose of recharging motor vehicle air conditioners must be at or above the standard of purity developed by the Air-conditioning and Refrigeration Institute (ARI 700-93) (which is codified at 40 CFR part 82, subpart F, appendix A, and is available at 4301 North Fairfax Drive, Suite 425, Arlington, Virginia 22203). Refrigerant may be recycled off-site only if the refrigerant is extracted using recover only equipment, and is subsequently recycled off-site by equipment owned by the person that owns both the recover only equipment and owns or operates the establishment at which the refrigerant was extracted. In any event, approved equipment must be used to extract refrigerant prior to performing any service during which discharge of refrigerant from the motor vehicle air conditioner can reasonably be expected. Intentionally venting or disposing of refrigerant to the atmosphere is an improper use of equipment.
(3) Notwithstanding any other terms of this paragraph (e), approved refrigerant recycling equipment may be transported off-site and used to perform service involving refrigerant at other locations where such servicing occurs. Any such servicing involving refrigerant must meet all of the requirements of this subpart B that would apply if the servicing occurred on-site.
(4) Facilities that charge MVACs or MVAC-like appliances with refrigerant but do not perform any other service involving refrigerant (
i.e.,
perform “top-offs” only) are considered to be engaged in “service involving refrigerant” and are therefore subject to any and all requirements of this subsection that apply to facilities that perform a wider range of refrigerant servicing. For facilities that charge MVACs, this includes the requirement to purchase approved refrigerant recycling equipment. For facilities that only charge MVAC-like appliances, this does not include the requirement to purchase approved refrigerant recycling equipment, but does include the requirement to be properly trained and certified by a technician certification program approved by the Administrator pursuant to either § 82.40 or § 82.161(a)(5).
(5) All persons opening (as that term is defined in § 82.152) MVAC-like appliances must have at least one piece of approved recovery or recycling equipment available at their place of business.
(f)
Refrigerant
means any class I or class II substance used in a motor vehicle air conditioner. Class I and class II substances are listed in part 82, subpart A, appendix A. Effective November 15, 1995, refrigerant shall also include any substitute substance.
(g)
Service for consideration
means being paid to perform service, whether it is in cash, credit, goods, or services. This includes all service except that done for free.
(h)
Service involving refrigerant
means any service during which discharge or release of refrigerant from the MVAC or MVAC-like appliance to the atmosphere can reasonably be expected to occur. Service involving refrigerant includes any service in which an MVAC or MVAC-like appliance is charged with refrigerant but no other service involving refrigerant is performed (
i.e.,
a “top-off”).
(i)
Motor vehicle disposal facility
means any commercial facility that engages in the disposal (which includes dismantling, crushing or recycling) of MVACs or MVAC-like appliances, including but not limited to automotive
recycling facilities, scrap yards, landfills and salvage yards engaged in such operations. Motor vehicle repair and/or servicing facilities, including collision repair facilities, are not considered motor vehicle disposal facilities.
[57 FR 31261, July 14, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 21687, May 2, 1995; 62 FR 68046, Dec. 30, 1997; 86 FR 15595, Mar. 24, 2021]
§ 82.34
Prohibitions and required practices.
(a) No person repairing or servicing MVACs for consideration, and no person repairing or servicing MVAC-like appliances, may perform any service involving the refrigerant for such MVAC or MVAC-like appliance:
(1) Without properly using equipment approved pursuant to § 82.36;
(2) Unless any such person repairing or servicing an MVAC has been properly trained and certified by a technician certification program approved by the Administrator pursuant to § 82.40; and
(3) Unless any such person repairing or servicing an MVAC-like appliance has been properly trained and certified by a technician certification program approved by the Administrator pursuant to either § 82.40 or § 82.161(a)(5).
(b) Effective November 15, 1992, no person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, any class I or class II substance that is suitable for use as a refrigerant in motor vehicle air-conditioner and that is in a container which contains less than 20 pounds of such refrigerant to any person unless that person is properly trained and certified under § 82.40 or intended the containers for resale only, and so certifies to the seller under § 82.42(b)(3).
(c) No technician training programs may issue certificates unless the program complies with all of the standards in § 82.40(a).
(d)
Motor vehicle disposal facilities.
(1) Any refrigerant that is extracted from an MVAC or an MVAC-like appliance (as that term is defined in § 82.152) bound for disposal and located at a motor vehicle disposal facility may not be subsequently used to charge or recharge an MVAC or MVAC-like appliance, unless, prior to such charging or recharging, the refrigerant is either:
(i) Recovered, and reclaimed in accordance with the regulations promulgated under § 82.32(e)(2) of this subpart B; or
(ii) (A) Recovered using approved refrigerant recycling equipment dedicated for use with MVACs and MVAC-like appliances, either by a technician certified under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or by an employee, owner, or operator of, or contractor to, the disposal facility; and
(B) Subsequently recycled by the facility that charges or recharges the refrigerant into an MVAC or MVAC-like appliance, properly using approved refrigerant recycling equipment in accordance with any applicable recommended service procedures set forth in the appendices to this subpart B.
(2) Any refrigerant the sale of which is restricted under subpart F that is extracted from an MVAC or an MVAC-like appliance bound for disposal and located at a motor vehicle disposal facility but not subsequently reclaimed in accordance with the regulations promulgated under subpart F, may be sold prior to its subsequent re-use only to a technician certified under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Any technician certified under paragraph (a)(2) of this section who obtains such a refrigerant may subsequently re-use such refrigerant only in an MVAC or MVAC-like appliance, and only if it has been reclaimed or properly recycled.
(e) Refrigerant handling equipment manufactured or imported for use during the maintenance, service or repair of MVACs for consideration cannot be introduced into interstate commerce unless meeting the requirements of § 82.36.
[57 FR 31261, July 14, 1992, as amended at 62 FR 68047, Dec. 30, 1997; 72 FR 63494, Nov. 9, 2007]
§ 82.36
Approved refrigerant handling equipment.
(a)(1) Refrigerant recycling equipment must be certified by the Administrator or an independent standards testing organization approved by the Administrator under § 82.38 to meet the following standard:
(2) Equipment that recovers and recycles CFC-12 refrigerant must meet the standards set forth in appendix A
of this subpart (Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of CFC-12, Extraction and Recycle Equipment for Mobile Automotive Air-Conditioning Systems, and Standard of Purity for Use in Mobile Air Conditioning Systems).
(3) Equipment that recovers but does not recycle CFC-12 refrigerant must meet the standards set forth in appendix B of this subpart (Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of CFC-12 and Extraction Equipment for Mobile Automotive Air-Conditioning Systems).
(4) Effective January 1, 2008, equipment that recovers and recycles HFC-134a refrigerant and equipment that recovers and recycles HFC-134a refrigerant and recharges systems with HFC-134a refrigerant must meet the standards set forth in Appendix C of this subpart based upon J2788—HFC-134a (R-134a) Recovery/Recycling Equipment and Recovery/Recycling/Recharging for Mobile Air-Conditioning Systems.
(5) Effective October 31, 2008, equipment that recovers but does not recycle HFC-134a refrigerant must meet the standards set forth in Appendix D of this subpart based upon J2810—HFC-134a (R-134a) Recovery Equipment Mobile Air-Conditioning Systems.
(6) Equipment that recovers and recycles both CFC-12 and HFC-134a using common circuitry must meet the standards set forth in appendix E of this subpart (Automotive Refrigerant Recycling Equipment Intended for Use with both CFC-12 and HFC-134a, Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of CFC-12, and Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of HFC-134a).
(7) Equipment that recovers but does not recycle refrigerants other than CFC-12, HFC-134a, and HFO-1234yf must meet the standards set forth in appendix F of this subpart (Recover-Only Equipment that Extracts a Single, Specific Refrigerant Other Than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or HFO-1234yf).
(8) Equipment that recovers and recycles HFO-1234yf refrigerant from MVACs and recharges MVAC systems with HFO-1234yf refrigerant must meet the standards set forth in SAE J2843 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.31).
(9) Equipment that recovers but does not recycle contaminated HFC-134a and/or HFO-1234yf refrigerant from MVACs must meet the standards set forth in SAE J2851 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.31).
(10) Equipment that recovers, recycles, and recharges both HFO-1234yf and R-134a from MVACs must meet the standards set forth in SAE J3030 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.31).
(b)(1) Refrigerant recycling equipment that has not been certified under paragraph (a) of this section shall be considered approved if it is substantially identical to the applicable equipment certified under paragraph (a) of this section, and:
(i) For equipment that recovers and recycles CFC-12 refrigerant, it was initially purchased before September 4, 1991;
(ii) For equipment that recovers but does not recycle CFC-12 refrigerant, it was initially purchased before April 22, 1992;
(iii) For equipment that recovers and recycles HFC-134a refrigerant, it was initially purchased before March 6, 1996;
(iv) For equipment that recovers but does not recycle HFC-134a refrigerant, it was initially purchased before March 6, 1996;
(v) For equipment that recovers but does not recycle any single, specific refrigerant other than CFC-12 or HFC-134a, it was initially purchased before March 6, 1996; and
(vi) For equipment that recovers and recycles HFC-134a and CFC-12 refrigerant using common circuitry, it was initially purchased before March 6, 1996.
(2) Equipment manufacturers or owners may request a determination by the Administrator by submitting an application and supporting documents that indicate that the equipment is substantially identical to approved equipment to: MVACs Recycling Program Manager, Stratospheric Protection Division (6205J), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460, Attn: Substantially Identical Equipment Review. Supporting documents must include process flow sheets, lists of components and any other information that would
indicate that the equipment is capable of processing the refrigerant to the standards in appendix A, B, C, D, E or F of this subpart, as applicable. Authorized representatives of the Administrator may inspect equipment for which approval is being sought and request samples of refrigerant that has been extracted and/or recycled using the equipment. Equipment that fails to meet appropriate standards will not be considered approved.
(3) Refrigerant recycling equipment that recovers or recovers and recycles CFC-12 refrigerant and has not been certified under paragraph (a) or approved under paragraphs(b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section shall be considered approved for use with an MVAC-like appliance if it was manufactured or imported before November 15, 1993, and is capable of reducing the system pressure to 102 mm of mercury vacuum under the conditions set forth in appendix A of this subpart.
(c) The Administrator will maintain a list of approved equipment by manufacturer and model. Persons interested in obtaining a copy of the list should send written inquiries to the address in paragraph (b) of this section.
[57 FR 31261, July 14, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 21687, May 2, 1995; 62 FR 68047, Dec. 30, 1997; 72 FR 63494, Nov. 9, 2007; 73 FR 34647, June 18, 2008; 86 FR 15595, Mar. 24, 2021]
§ 82.38
Approved independent standards testing organizations.
(a) Any independent standards testing organization may apply for approval by the Administrator to certify equipment as meeting the standards in § 82.36(a) and appendices A, B, C, D, E, and F to this subpart, as applicable. The application shall be sent to: MVACs Recycling Program Manager, Stratospheric Protection Division (6205T), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20460.
(b) Applications for approval must document the following:
(1) That the organization has the capacity to accurately test whether refrigerant recycling equipment complies with the applicable standards. In particular, applications must document:
(i) The equipment present at the organization that will be used for equipment testing;
(ii) The expertise in equipment testing and the technical experience of the organization's personnel;
(iii) Thorough knowledge of the standards as they appear in the applicable appendices of this subpart; and
(iv) The test procedures to be used to test equipment for compliance with applicable standards, and why such test procedures are appropriate for that purpose.
(2) That the organization has no conflict of interest and will receive no financial benefit based on the outcome of certification testing; and
(3) That the organization agrees to allow the Administrator access to verify the information contained in the application.
(c) If approval is denied under this section, the Administrator shall give written notice to the organization setting forth the basis for his or her determination.
(d) If at any time an approved independent standards testing organization is found to be conducting certification tests for the purposes of this subpart in a manner not consistent with the representations made in its application for approval under this section, the Administrator reserves the right to revoke approval.
[57 FR 31261, July 14, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 21687, May 2, 1995; 62 FR 68048, Dec. 30, 1997; 86 FR 15595, Mar. 24, 2021]
§ 82.40
Technician training and certification.
(a) Any technician training and certification program may apply for approval, in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, by submitting to the Administrator at the address in § 82.38(a) verification that the program meets all of the following standards:
(1)
Training.
Each program must provide adequate training, through one or more of the following means: on-the-job training, training through self-study of instructional material, or on-site training involving instructors, videos or a hands-on demonstration.
(2)
Test subject material.
The certification tests must adequately and sufficiently cover the following:
(i) The standards established for the service and repair of MVACs and MVAC-like appliances as set forth in § 82.36(a) and appendices A, B, C, D, E, and F to this subpart. These standards relate to the recommended service procedures for the containment of refrigerant, extraction equipment, extraction and recycle equipment, and the standard of purity for refrigerant in motor vehicle air conditioners.
(ii) Anticipated future technological developments, such as the introduction of HFC-134a in new motor vehicle air conditioners.
(iii) The environmental consequences of refrigerant release and the adverse effects of stratospheric ozone layer depletion.
(iv) As of August 13, 1992, the requirements imposed by the Administrator under section 609 of the Act.
(3)
Test administration.
Completed tests must be graded by an entity or individual who receives no benefit based on the outcome of testing; a fee may be charged for grading. Sufficient measures must be taken at the test site to ensure that tests are completed honestly by each technician. Each test must provide a means of verifying the identification of the individual taking the test. Programs are encouraged to make provisions for non-English speaking technicians by providing tests in other languages or allowing the use of a translator when taking the test. If a translator is used, the certificate received must indicate that translator assistance was required.
(4)
Proof of certification.
Each certification program must offer individual proof of certification, such as a certificate, wallet-sized card, or display card, upon successful completion of the test. Each certification program must provide a unique number for each certified technician.
(b) In deciding whether to approve an application, the Administrator will consider the extent to which the applicant has documented that its program meets the standards set forth in this section. The Administrator reserves the right to consider other factors deemed relevant to ensure the effectiveness of certification programs. The Administrator may approve a program which meets all of the standards in paragraph (a) of this section except test administration if the program, when viewed as a whole, is at least as effective as a program that does meet all the standards. Such approval shall be limited to training and certification conducted before August 13, 1992. If approval is denied under this section, the Administrator shall give written notice to the program setting forth the basis for his determination.
(c)
Technical revisions.
Directors of approved certification programs must conduct periodic reviews of test subject material and update the material based upon the latest technological developments in motor vehicle air conditioner service and repair. A written summary of the review and any changes made must be submitted to the Administrator every two years.
(d)
Recertification.
The Administrator reserves the right to specify the need for technician recertification at some future date, if necessary.
(e) If at any time an approved program is conducted in a manner not consistent with the representations made in the application for approval of the program under this section, the Administrator reserves the right to revoke approval.
(f) Authorized representatives of the Administrator may require technicians to demonstrate on the business entity's premises their ability to perform proper procedures for recovering and/or recycling refrigerant. Failure to demonstrate or failure to properly use the equipment may result in revocation of the technician's certificate by the Administrator. Technicians whose certification is revoked must be recertified before servicing or repairing any motor vehicle air conditioners.
[57 FR 31261, July 14, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 21688, May 2, 1995; 62 FR 68048, Dec. 30, 1997; 86 FR 15595, Mar. 24, 2021]
§ 82.42
Certification, recordkeeping and public notification requirements.
(a)
Certification requirements.
(1) No later than January 1, 1993, any person repairing or servicing motor vehicle air conditioners for consideration shall certify to the Administrator that such person has acquired, and is properly using, approved equipment and that
each individual authorized to use the equipment is properly trained and certified. Certification shall take the form of a statement signed by the owner of the equipment or another responsible officer and setting forth:
(i) The name of the purchaser of the equipment;
(ii) The address of the establishment where the equipment will be located; and
(iii) The manufacturer name and equipment model number, the date of manufacture, and the serial number of the equipment. The certification must also include a statement that the equipment will be properly used in servicing motor vehicle air conditioners, that each individual authorized by the purchaser to perform service is properly trained and certified in accordance with § 82.40, and that the information given is true and correct.
(A) Owners or lessees of recycling or recovery equipment having their places of business in Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont must send their certifications to: CAA section 609 Enforcement Contact; EPA Region I; Mail Code 04-2; 5 Post Office Square—Suite 100, Boston, MA 02109-3912.
(B) Owners or lessees of recycling or recovery equipment having their places of business in New York, New Jersey, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands must send their certifications to: CAA section 609 Enforcement Contact; EPA Region II (2DECA-AC); 290 Broadway, 21st Floor; New York, NY 10007-1866.
(C) Owners or lessees of recycling or recovery equipment having their places of business in Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia must send their certifications to: CAA section 609 Enforcement Contact; EPA Region III—Wheeling Operations Office; Mail Code 3AP12; 303 Methodist Building; 11th and Chapline Streets; Wheeling, WV 26003.
(D) Owners or lessees of recycling or recovery equipment having their places of business in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee must send their certifications to: CAA section 609 Enforcement Contact; EPA Region IV (APT-AE); Atlanta Federal Center; 61 Forsyth Street, SW.; Atlanta, GA 30303.
(E) Owners or lessees of recycling or recovery equipment having their places of business in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, Wisconsin must send their certifications to: CAA section 609 Enforcement Contact, EPA Region V (AE17J); 77 West Jackson Blvd.; Chicago, IL 60604-3507.
(F) Owners or lessees of recycling or recovery equipment having their places of business in Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas must send their certifications to: CAA Section 609 Enforcement Contact, EPA Region 6, 1201 Elm Street, Suite 500, Mail Code 6ECDAP, Dallas, Texas 75270-2102.
(G) Owners or lessees of recycling or recovery equipment having their places of business in Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska must send their certifications to: CAA section 609 Enforcement Contact; EPA Region 7; Mail Code APCO/APDB/ACES; 11201 Renner Boulevard, Lenexa, Kansas 66219.
(H) Owners or lessees of recycling or recovery equipment having their places of business in Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, Wyoming must send their certifications to: CAA section 609 Enforcement Contact, EPA Region VIII, Mail Code 8ENF-T, 999 18th Street, Suite 500, Denver, CO 80202-2466.
(I) Owners or lessees of recycling or recovery equipment having their places of business in American Samoa, Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii, Nevada must send their certifications to: CAA section 609 Enforcement Contact; EPA Region IX; Mail Code AIR-5; 75 Hawthorne Street; San Francisco, CA 94105.
(J) Owners or lessees of recycling or recovery equipment having their places of business in Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, Washington must send their certifications to: CAA section 609 Enforcement Contact; EPA Region X (OAQ-107); 1200 Sixth Avenue; Seattle, WA 98101.
(b)
Recordkeeping requirements.
(1) Any person who owns approved refrigerant recycling equipment certified under § 82.36(a)(2) must maintain records of the name and address of any facility to which refrigerant is sent.
(2) Any person who owns approved refrigerant recycling equipment must retain records demonstrating that all persons authorized to operate the equipment are currently certified under § 82.40.
(3) Any person who sells or distributes any class I or class II substance that is suitable for use as a refrigerant in a motor vehicle air conditioner and that is in a container of less than 20 pounds of such refrigerant must verify that the purchaser is properly trained and certified under § 82.40. The seller must have a reasonable basis for believing that the information presented by the purchaser is accurate. The only exception to these requirements is if the purchaser is purchasing the small containers for resale only. In this case, the seller must obtain a written statement from the purchaser that the containers are for resale only and indicate the purchasers name and business address. Records required under this paragraph must be retained for a period of three years.
(4) All records required to be maintained pursuant to this section must be kept for a minimum of three years unless otherwise indicated. Entities which service motor vehicle air conditioners for consideration must keep these records on-site.
(5) All entities which service motor vehicle air conditioners for consideration must allow an authorized representative of the Administrator entry onto their premises (upon presentation of his or her credentials) and give the authorized representative access to all records required to be maintained pursuant to this section.
(c)
Public notification.
Any person who conducts any retail sales of a class I or class II substance that is suitable for use as a refrigerant in a motor vehicle air conditioner, and that is in a container of less than 20 pounds of refrigerant, must prominently display a sign where sales of such containers occur which states:
“It is a violation of federal law to sell containers of Class I and Class II refrigerant of less than 20 pounds of such refrigerant to anyone who is not properly trained and certified to operate approved refrigerant recycling equipment.”
[57 FR 31261, July 14, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 21688, May 2, 1995; 72 FR 63494, Nov. 9, 2007; 76 FR 49673, Aug. 11, 2011; 78 FR 37977, June 25, 2013; 84 FR 34070, July 17, 2019; 84 FR 44230, Aug. 23, 2019]
Pt. 82, Subpt. B, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 82—Standard for Recycle/Recover Equipment

# Standard of Purity for Use in Mobile Air-Conditioning Systems

# Foreword
Due to the CFC's damaging effect on the ozone layer, recycle of CFC-12 (R-12) used in mobile air-conditioning systems is required to reduce system venting during normal service operations. Establishing recycle specifications for R-12 will assure that system operation with recycled R-12 will provide the same level of performance as new refrigerant.
Extensive field testing with the EPA and the auto industry indicate that reuse of R-12 removed from mobile air-conditioning systems can be considered, if the refrigerant is cleaned to a specific standard. The purpose of this standard is to establish the specific minimum levels of R-12 purity required for recycled R-12 removed from mobile automotive air-conditioning systems.

# 1. Scope
This information applies to refrigerant used to service automobiles, light trucks, and other vehicles with similar CFC-12 systems. Systems used on mobile vehicles for refrigerated cargo that have hermetically sealed, rigid pipe are not covered in this document.

# 2. References
SAE J1989, Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of R-12
SAE J1990, Extraction and Recycle Equipment for Mobile Automotive Air-Conditioning Systems
ARI Standard 700-88

# 3. Purity Specification
The refrigerant in this document shall have been directly removed from, and intended to be returned to, a mobile air-conditioning system. The contaminants in this recycled refrigerant 12 shall be limited to moisture, refrigerant oil, and noncondensable gases, which shall not exceed the following level:
3.1
Moisture:
15 ppm by weight.
3.2
Refrigerant Oil:
4000 ppm by weight.
3.3
Noncondensable Gases (air):
330 ppm by wright.

# 4. Refrigeration Recycle Equipment Used in Direct Mobile Air-Conditioning Service Operations Requirement
4.1 The equipment shall meet SAE J1990, which covers additional moisture, acid, and filter requirements.
4.2 The equipment shall have a label indicating that it is certified to meet this document.

# 5. Purity Specification of Recycled R-12 Refrigerant Supplied in Containers From Other Recycle Sources
Purity specification of recycled R-12 refrigerant supplied in containers from other recycle sources, for service of mobile air-conditioning systems, shall meet ARI Standard 700-88 (Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute).

# 6. Operation of the Recycle Equipment
This shall be done in accordance with SAE J1989.

# Rationale
Not applicable.

# Relationship of SAE Standard to ISO Standard
Not applicable.

# Reference Section
SAE J1989, Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of R-12
SAE J1990, Extraction and Recycle Equipment for Mobile Automotive Air-Conditioning Systems
ARI Standard 700-88

# Application
This information applies to refrigerant used to service automobiles, light trucks, and other vehicles with similar CFC-12 systems. Systems used on mobile vehicles for refrigerated cargo that have hermetically sealed, rigid pipe are not covered in this document.

# Committee Composition

# Developed by the SAE Defrost and Interior Climate Controls Standards Committee
W.J. Atkinson, Sun Test Engineering, Paradise Valley, AZ—Chairman
J.J. Amin, Union Lake, MI
H.S. Andersson, Saab Scania, Sweden
P.E. Anglin, ITT Higbie Mfg. Co., Rochester, MI
R.W. Bishop, GMC, Lockport, NY
D. Hawks, General Motors Corporation, Pontiac, MI
J.J. Hernandez, NAVISTAR, Ft. Wayne, IN
H. Kaltner, Volkswagen AG, Germany, Federal Republic
D.F. Last, GMC, Troy, MI
D.E. Linn, Volkswagen of America, Warren, MI
J.H. McCorkel, Freightliner Corp., Charlotte, NC
C.J. McLachlan, Livonia, MI
H.L. Miner, Climate Control Inc., Decatur, IL
R.J. Niemiec, General Motors Corp., Pontiac, MI
N. Novak, Chrysler Corp., Detroit, MI
S. Oulouhojian, Mobile Air Conditioning Society, Upper Darby, PA
J. Phillips, Air International, Australia
R.H. Proctor, Murray Corp., Cockeysville, MD
G. Rolling, Behr America Inc., Ft. Worth, TX
C.D. Sweet, Signet Systems Inc., Harrodsburg, KY
J.P. Telesz, General Motors Corp., Lockport, NY

# Extraction and Recycle Equipment for Mobile Automotive Air Conditioning Systems

# SAE Recommended Practice, SAE J1990 (1991)
1

# 0. Foreword
Due to the CFC's damaging effect on the ozone layer, recycle of CFC-12 (R-12) used in mobile air-conditioning systems is required to replace system venting during normal service operations. Establishing recycle specifications for R-12 will provide the same level of performance as new refrigerant.
1
This standard is appropriate for equipment certified after February 1, 1992. This equipment may be marked design certified for compliance with SAE J1990 (1991). The standard for approval for equipment certified on or before February 1, 1992 is SAE J1990 (1989). This equipment may be marked design certified for compliance with SAE J1990 (1989). Both types of equipment are considered approved under the requirements of this regulation.
Extensive field testing with the EPA and the auto industry indicates that R-12 can be reused, provided that it is cleaned to specifications in SAE J1991. The purpose of this document is to establish the specific minimum equipment specification required for recycle of R-12 that has been directly removed from mobile systems for reuse in mobile automotive air-conditioning systems.

# 1. Scope
The purpose of this document is to provide equipment specifications for CFC-12 (R-12) recycling equipment. This information applies to equipment used to service automobiles, light trucks, and other vehicles with similar CFC-12 air-conditioning systems. Systems used on mobile vehicles for
refrigerated cargo that have hermetically sealed systems are not covered in this document. The equipment in this document is intended for use with refrigerant that has been directly removed from, and intended to be returned to, a mobile air-conditioning system. Should other revisions due to operational or technical requirements occur, this document may be amended.

# 2. References
2.1 Applicable Documents:
2.1.1 SAE Publications—Available from SAE, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001.
SAE J1991—Standard of Purity for Use in Mobile Air-Conditioning Systems
SAE J2196—Service Hose for Automotive Air-Conditioning
2.1.2 CGA Publications—Available from CGA, Crystal Gateway #1, Ste. 501, 1235 Jefferson Davis Hwy., Arlington, VA 22202
CGA Pamphlet S-1.1—Pressure Relief Device Standard Part 1—Cylinders for Compressed Gases

# 3. Specification and General Description
3.1 The equipment must be able to extract and process CFC-12 from mobile air-conditioning systems. The equipment shall process the contaminated R-12 samples as defined in 8.4 and shall clean the refrigerant to the level as defined in SAE J1991.
3.2 The equipment shall be suitable for use in an automotive service environment and be capable of continuous operation in ambients from 10 to 49 °C.
3.3 The equipment must be certified by Underwriters Laboratories or an equivalent certifying laboratory.
3.4 The equipment shall have a label “Design Certified by (Company Name) to Meet SAE J1991”. The minimum letter size shall be bold type 3 mm in height.

# 4. Refrigeration Recycle Equipment Requirements
4.1 Moisture and Acid—The equipment shall incorporate a desiccant package that must be replaced before saturated with moisture and whose mineral acid capacity is at least 5% by weight of total system dry desiccant.
4.1.1 The equipment shall be provided with a moisture detection device that will reliably indicate when moisture in the CFC-12 exceeds the allowable level and requires the filter/dryer replacement.
4.2 Filter—The equipment shall incorporate an in-line filter that will trap particulates of 15 µm or greater.
4.3 Noncondensable Gas.
4.3.1 The equipment shall either automatically purge noncondensables (NCGs) if the acceptable level is exceeded or incorporate a device to alert the operator that NCG level has been exceeded. NCG removal must be part of normal operation of the equipment and instructions must be provided to enable the task to be accomplished within 30 minutes.
4.3.2 Refrigerant loss from noncondensable gas purging during testing described in Section 8 shall not exceed five percent (5%) by weight of the total contaminated refrigerant removed from the test system.
4.3.3 Transfer of Recycled Refrigerant—Recycled refrigerant for recharging and transfer shall be taken from the liquid phase only.

# 5. Safety Requirements
5.1 The equipment must comply with applicable federal, state and local requirements on equipment related to the handling of R-12 material. Safety precautions or notices related to the safe operation of the equipment shall be prominently displayed on the equipment and should also state “Caution—Should Be Operated By Qualified Personnel”.

# 6. Operating Instructions
6.1 The equipment manufacturer must provide operating instructions, necessary maintenance procedures, and source information for replacement parts and repair.
6.2 The equipment must prominently display the manufacturer's name, address and any items that require maintenance or replacement that affect the proper operation of the equipment. Operation manuals must cover information for complete maintenance of the equipment to assure proper operation.

# 7. Functional Description
7.1 The equipment must be capable of ensuring recovery of the R-12 from the system being service, by reducing the system pressure below atmospheric to a minimum of 102 mm of mercury.
7.2 To prevent overcharge, the equipment must be equipped to protect the tank used to store the recycled refrigerant with a shutoff device and a mechanical pressure relief valve.
7.3 Portable refillable tanks or containers used in conjunction with this equipment must meet applicable Department of Transportation (DOT) or Underwriters Laboratories (UL) Standards and be adaptable to existing refrigerant service and charging equipment.
7.4 During operation, the equipment shall provide overfill protection to assure the storage container, internal or external, liquid fill does not exceed 80% of the tank's rated volume at 21.1 °C (70 °F) per DOT standards, CFR title 49, § 173.304 and American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
7.4.1 Additional Storage Tank Requirements.
7.4.1.1 The cylinder valve shall comply with the standard for cylinder valves, UL 1769.
7.4.1.2 The pressure relief device shall comply with the Pressure Relief Device Standard Part 1—Cylinders for Compressed Gases, CGA Pamphlet S-1.1.
7.4.1.3 The tank assembly shall be marked to indicate the first retest date, which shall be 5 years after date of manufacture. The marking shall indicate that retest must be performed every subsequent 5 years. The marking shall be in letters at least
1/4
in high.
7.5 All flexible hoses must meet SAE J2196 hose specification effective January 1, 1992.
7.6 Service hoses must have shutoff devices located within 30 cm (12 in) of the connection point to the system being serviced to minimize introduction of noncondensable gases into the recovery equipment and the release of the refrigerant when being disconnected.
7.7 The equipment must be able to separate the lubricant from the recovered refrigerant and accurately indicate the amount removed during the process, in 30 ml units. Refrigerant dissolves in lubricant sample. This creates the illusion that more lubricant has been recovered than actually has been. The equipment lubricant measuring system must take in account such dissolved refrigerant to prevent overcharging the vehicle system with lubricant. Note: Use only new lubricant to replace the amount removed during the recycle process. Used lubricant should be discarded per applicable federal, state, and local requirements.
7.8 The equipment must be capable of continuous operation in ambient of 10 to 49 °C (50 to 120 °F).
7.9 The equipment should be compatible with leak detection material that may be present in the mobile AC system.

# 8. Testing
This test procedure and the requirement are used for evaluation of the equipment for its ability to clean the contaminated R-12 refrigerant.
8.1 The equipment shall clean the contaminated R-12 refrigerant to the minimum purity level as defined in SAE J1991, when tested in accordance with the following conditions:
8.2 For test validation, the equipment is to be operated according to the manufacturer's instructions.
8.3 The equipment must be preconditioned with 13.6 kg (30 lb) of the standard contaminated R-12 at an ambient of 21 °C (70 °F) before starting the test cycle. Sample amounts are not to exceed 1.13 kg (2.5 lb) with sample amounts to be repeated every 5 min. The sample method fixture, defined in Fig. 1, shall be operated at 24 °C (75 °F).
8.4 Contaminated R-12 Samples.
8.4.1 Standard contaminated R-12 refrigerant shall consist of liquid R-12 with 100 ppm (by weight) moisture at 21 °C (70 °F) and 45,000 ppm (by weight) mineral oil 525 suspension nominal and 770 ppm by weight of noncondensable gases (air).
8.4.2 High moisture contaminated sample shall consist of R-12 vapor with 1,000 ppm (by weight) moisture.
8.4.3 High oil contaminated sample shall consist of R-12 with 200,000 ppm (by weight) mineral oil 525 suspension viscosity nominal.
8.5 Test Cycle.
8.5.1 After preconditioning as stated in 8.3, the test cycle is started, processing the following contaminated samples through the equipment:
8.5.1.1 3013.6 kg (30 lb) of standard contaminated R-12.
8.5.1.2 1 kg (2.2 lb) of high oil contaminated R-12.
8.5.1.3 4.5 kg (10 lb) of standard contaminated R-12.
8.5.1.4 1 kg (2.2 lb) of high moisture contaminated R-12.
8.6 Equipment Operating Ambient.
8.6.1 The R-12 is to be cleaned to the minimum purity level, as defined in SAE J1991, with the equipment operating in a stable ambient of 10, 21, and 49 °C (50, 70, and 120 °F) and processing the samples as defined in 8.5.
8.7 Sample Analysis.
8.7.1 The processed contaminated sample shall be analyzed according to the following procedure.
8.8 Quantitative Determination of Moisture.
8.8.1 The recycled liquid phase sample of CFC-12 shall be analyzed for moisture content via Karl Fischer coulometer titration or an equivalent method. The Karl Fischer apparatus is an instrument for precise determination of small amounts of water dissolved in liquid and/or gas samples.
8.8.2 In conducting the test, a weighed sample of 30 to 130 grams is vaporized directly into the Karl Fischer analyte. A coulometer titration is conducted and the results are calculated and displayed as parts per million moisture (weight).
8.9 Determination of Percent Lubricant.
8.9.1 The amount of oil in the recycled sample of CFC-12 is to be determined by gravimetric analysis.
8.9.2 Following venting of noncondensable, in accordance with the manufacturer's operating instructions, the refrigerant container shall be shaken for 5 minutes prior to extracting samples for test.
8.9.3 A weighted sample of 175 to 225 grams of liquid CFC-12 is allowed to evaporate at room temperature. The percent oil is to be calculated from the weight of the original sample and the residue remaining after the evaporation.
8.10 Noncondensable Gas.
8.10.1 The amount of noncondensable gas is to be determined by gas chromatography. A sample of vaporized refrigerant liquid shall be separated and analyzed by gas chromatography. A Porapak Q column at 130 °C and a hot wire detector may be used for analysis.
8.10.2 This test shall be conducted on recycled refrigerant (taken from the liquid phase) within 30 minutes after the proper venting of noncondensable.
8.10.3 Samples shall be shaken for 8 hours prior to retesting while at a temperature of 24 ±2.8 °C (75 ±5 °F). Known volumes of refrigerant vapor are to be injected for separation and analysis by means of gas chromatography. A Porapak Q column at 130 °C (266 °F) and a hot wire detector are to be used for the analysis.
8.10.4 This test shall be conducted at 21 and 49 °C and may be performed in conjunction with the testing defined in Section 8.6. The equipment shall process at least 13.6 kg of standard contaminated refrigerant for this test.
8.11 Sample Requirements.
8.11.1 The sample shall be tested as defined in 8.7, 8.8, 8.9, and 8.10 at ambient temperatures of 10, 21, and 49 °C (50, 70, and 120 °F) as defined in 8.6.1.
EC01MY92.106

# Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of R-12

# 1. Scope
During service of mobile air-conditioning systems, containment of the refrigerant is important. This procedure provides service guidelines for technicians when repairing vehicles and operating equipment defined in SAE J1990.

# 2. References
SAE J1990, Extraction and Recycle Equipment for Mobile Automotive Air-Conditioning Systems

# 3. Refrigerant Recovery Procedure
3. 1 Connect the recovery unit service hoses, which shall have shutoff valves within 12 in (30 cm) of the service ends, to the vehicle air-conditioning system service ports.
3.2 Operate the recovery equipment as covered by the equipment manufacturers recommended procedure.
3.2.1 Start the recovery process and remove the refrigerant from the vehicle AC system. Operate the recovery unit until the vehicle system has been reduced from a pressure to a vacuum. With the recovery unit shut off for at least 5 min, determine that there is no refrigerant remaining in the vehicle AC system. If the vehicle system has pressure, additional recovery operation is required to remove the remaining refrigerant. Repeat the operation until the vehicle AC system vacuum level remains stable for 2 min.
3.3 Close the valves in the service lines and then remove the service lines from the vehicle system. Proceed with the repair/service. If the recovery equipment has automatic closing valves, be sure they are properly operating.

# 4. Service With Manifold Gage Set
4.1 Service hoses must have shutoff valves in the high, low, and center service hoses within 12 in (30 cm) of the service ends. Valves must be closed prior to hose removal from the air-conditioning system. This will reduce the volume of refrigerant contained in the service hose that would otherwise be vented to atmosphere.
4.2 During all service operations, the valves should be closed until connected to the vehicle air-conditioning system or the charging source to avoid introduction of air and to contain the refrigerant rather than vent open to atmosphere.
4.3 When the manifold gage set is disconnected from the air-conditioning system or when the center hose is moved to another device which cannot accept refrigerant pressure, the gage set hoses should first be attached to the reclaim equipment to recover the refrigerant from the hoses.

# 5. Recycled Refrigerant Checking Procedure for Stored Portable Auxiliary Container
5.1 To determine if the recycled refrigerant container has excess noncondensable gases (air), the container must be stored at a temperature of 65 °F (18.3 °C) or above for a period of time, 12 h, protected from direct sun.
5.2 Install a calibrated pressure gage, with 1 psig divisions (0.07 kg), to the container and determine the container pressure.
5.3 With a calibrated thermometer, measure the air temperature within 4 in (10 cm) of the container surface.
5.4 Compare the observed container pressure and air temperature to determine if the container exceeds the pressure limits found on Table 1, e.g., air temperature 70 °F (21 °C) pressure must not exceed 80 psig (5.62 kg/cm
2
).
Table 1
Temp °F
Psig
Temp °F
Psig
Temp °F
Psig
Temp °F
Psig
Temp °F
Psig
65
74
75
87
85
102
95
118
105
136
66
75
76
88
86
103
96
120
106
138
67
76
77
90
87
105
97
122
107
140
68
78
78
92
88
107
98
124
108
142
69
79
79
94
89
108
99
125
109
144
70
80
80
96
90
110
100
127
110
146
71
82
81
98
91
111
101
129
111
148
72
83
82
99
92
113
102
130
112
150
73
84
83
100
93
115
103
132
113
152
74
86
84
101
94
116
104
134
114
154
Table 1 (Metric)
Temp °C
Pres
Temp °C
Pres
Temp °C
Pres
Temp °C
Pres
Temp °C
PRres
18.3
5.20
23.9
6.11
29.4
7.17
35.0
8.29
40.5
9.56
18.8
5.27
24.4
6.18
30.0
7.24
35.5
8.43
41.1
9.70
19.4
5.34
25.0
6.32
30.5
7.38
36.1
8.57
41.6
9.84
20.0
5.48
25.5
6.46
31.1
7.52
36.6
8.71
42.2
9.98
20.5
5.55
26.1
6.60
31.6
7.59
37.2
8.78
42.7
10.12
21.1
5.62
26.6
6.74
32.2
7.73
37.7
8.92
43.3
10.26
21.6
5.76
27.2
6.88
32.7
7.80
38.3
9.06
43.9
10.40
22.2
5.83
27.7
6.95
33.3
7.94
38.8
9.13
44.4
10.54
22.7
5.90
28.3
7.03
33.9
8.08
39.4
9.27
45.0
10.68
23.3
6.04
28.9
7.10
34.4
8.15
40.0
9.42
45.5
10.82
Pres kg/sq cm.
5.5 If the container pressure is less than the Table 1 values and has been recycled, limits of noncondensable gases (air) have not been exceeded and the refrigerant may be used.
5.6 If the pressure is greater than the range and the container contains recycled material, slowly vent from the top of the container a small amount of vapor into the recycle equipment until the pressure is less than the pressure shown on Table 1.
5.7 If the container still exceeds the pressure shown on Table 1, the entire contents of the container shall be recycled.

# 6. Containers for Storage of Recycled Refrigerant
6.1 Recycled refrigerant should not be salvaged or stored in disposable refrigerant containers. This is the type of container in which virgin refrigerant is sold. Use only DOT CFR title 49 or UL approved storage containers for recycled refrigerant.
6.2 Any container of recycled refrigerant that has been stored or transferred must be checked prior to use as defined in section 5.

# 7. Transfer of Recycled Refrigerant
7.1 When external portable containers are used for transfer, the container must be evacuated at least 27 in of vacuum (75 mm Hg absolute pressure) prior to transfer of the recycled refrigerant. External portable containers must meet DOT and UL standards.
7.2 To prevent on-site overfilling when transferring to external containers, the safe filling level must be controlled by weight and must not exceed 60% of container gross weight rating.

# 8. Disposal of Empty/Near Empty Containers
8.1 Since all the refrigerant may not be removed from disposable refrigerant containers during normal system charging procedures, empty/near empty container contents should be reclaimed prior to disposal of the container.
8.2 Attach the container to the recovery unit and remove the remaining refrigerant. When the container has been reduced from a pressure to a vacuum, the container valve can be closed. The container should be marked empty and is ready for disposal.

# Rationale
Not applicable.

# Relationship of SAE Standard to ISO Standard.
Not applicable.

# Reference Section
SAE J1990, Extraction and Recycle Equipment for Mobile Automotive Air-Conditioning Systems

# Application
During service of mobile air-conditioning systems, containment of the refrigerant is important. This procedure provides service guidelines for technicians when repairing vehicles and operating equipment defined in SAE J1990.

# Committee Composition

# Developed by the SAE Defrost and Interior Climate Control Standards Committee
W.J. Atkinson, Sun Test Engineering, Paradise Valley, AZ—Chairman
J.J. Amin, Union Lake, MI
H.S. Andersson, Saab Scania, Sweden
P.E. Anglin, ITT Higbie Mfg. Co., Rochester, MI
R.W. Bishop, GMC, Lockport, NY
D.Hawks, General Motors Corporation, Pontiac, MI
J.J. Hernandez, NAVISTAR, Ft. Wayne, IN
H. Kaltner, Volkswagen AG, Germany, Federal Republic
D.F. Last, GMC, Troy, MI
D.E. Linn, Volkswagen of America, Warren, MI
J.H. McCorkel, Freightliner Corp., Charlotte, NC
C.J. McLachlan, Livonia, MI
H.L. Miner, Climate Control Inc., Decatur, IL
R.J. Niemiec, General Motors Corp., Pontiac, MI
N. Novak, Chrysler Corp., Detroit, MI
S. Oulouhojian, Mobile Air Conditioning Society, Upper Darby, PA
J. Phillips, Air International, Australia
R.H. Proctor, Murray Corp., Cockeysville, MD
G. Rolling, Behr America Inc., Ft. Worth, TX
C.D. Sweet, Signet Systems Inc., Harrodsburg, KY
J.P. Telesz, General Motors Corp., Lockport, NY
Pt. 82, Subpt. B, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 82—Standard for Recover Equipment
SAE J1989, Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of R-12, as set forth under Appendix A, also applies to this Appendix B.
SAE J2209, issued June, 1992.

# SAE Recommended Practice: CFC-12 (R-12) Extraction Equipment for Mobile Automotive Air-Conditioning Systems

# Foreword
CFCs deplete the stratospheric ozone layer that protects the earth against harmful ultraviolet radiation. To reduce the emissions
of CFCs, the 1990 Clean Air Act requires recycle of CFC-12 (R-12) used in mobile air-conditioning systems to eliminate system venting during service operations. SAE J1990 establishes equipment specifications for on-site recovery and reuse of CFCs in mobile air-conditioning systems. Establishing extraction equipment specifications for CFC-12 will provide service facilities with equipment to assure that venting of refrigerant will not occur.

# 1. Scope
The purpose of this document is to provide equipment specifications for CFC-12 (R-12) recovery for recycling on-site or for transport off-site to a refrigerant reclamation facility that will process it to ARI (Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute) standard 700-93 as a minimum. It is not acceptable that the refrigerant removed from a mobile air-conditioning system, with this equipment, be directly returned to a mobile air-conditioning system.
This information applies to equipment used to service automobiles, light trucks, and other vehicles with similar CFC-12 systems.

# 2. References
2. Applicable Documents—The following documents form a part of this specification to the extent specified herein.
2.1.1 SAE Publications—Available from SAE, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001.
SAE J639—Vehicle Service Coupling
SAE J1990—Extraction and Recycle Equipment for Mobile Automotive Air-Conditioning Systems
SAE J2196—Service Hose for Automotive Air-Conditioning
2.1.2 ARI Publications—Available from Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute, 1501 Wilson Boulevard, Sixth Floor, Arlington, VA 22209.
ARI 700-93—Specifications for Fluorocarbon Refrigerants
2.1.3 CGA Publications—Available from CGA, Crystal Gateway #1, Suite 501, 1235 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA 22202.
CGA S-1.1—Pressure Relief Device Standard Part 1—Cylinders for Compressed Gases
2.1.4 DOT Specifications—Available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.
49 CFR, Section 173.304—Shippers—General Requirements for Shipments and Packagings
2.1.5 UL Publications—Available from Underwriters Laboratories, 333 Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062-2096.
UL 1769—Cylinder Valves

# 3. Specifications and General Description
3.1 The equipment must be able to extract CFC-12 from a mobile air-conditioning system.
3.2 The equipment discharge or transfer fitting shall be unique to prevent the unintentional use of extracted CFC-12 to be used for recharging auto air conditioners.
3.3 The equipment shall be suitable for use in an automotive service garage environment as defined in 6.8.
3.4 Equipment Certification—The equipment must be certified by Underwriters Laboratories or an equivalent certifying laboratory to meet this standard.
3.5 Label Requirements—The equipment shall have a label “Design Certified by (company name) to meet SAE J2209 for use with CFC-12. The refrigerant from this equipment must be processed to ARI 700-93 specifications before reuse in a mobile air-conditioning system.” The minimum letter size shall be bold type 3mm in height.

# 4. Safety Requirements
4.1 The equipment must comply with applicable federal, state and local requirements on equipment related to the handling of R-12 material. Safety precautions or notices or labels related to the safe operation of the equipment shall also be prominently displayed on the equipment and should also state “CAUTION—SHOULD BE OPERATED BY CERTIFIED PERSONNEL.” The safety identification shall be located on the front near the controls.
4.2 The equipment must comply with applicable safety standards for electrical and mechanical requirements.

# 5. Operating Instructions
5.1 The equipment manufacturer must provide operating instructions, necessary maintenance procedures and source information for replacement parts and repair.
5.2 The equipment must prominently display the manufacturer's name, address and any items that require maintenance or replacement that affect the proper operation of the equipment. Operation manuals must cover information for complete maintenance of the equipment to assure proper operation.

# 6. Functional Description
6.1 The equipment must be capable of ensuring recovery of the CFC-12 from the system being serviced, by reducing the system pressure to a minimum of 102 mm of mercury below atmospheric. To prevent system delayed outgassing, the unit must have a device that assures that the refrigerant has been recovered from the air-conditioning system.
6.1.1 Testing laboratory certification of the equipment capability is required which
shall process contaminated refrigerant samples at specific temperatures.
6.2 The equipment must be preconditioned with 13.6 kg of the standard contaminated CFC-12 at an ambient of 21 °C before starting the test cycle. Sample amounts are not to exceed 1.13 kg with sample amounts to be repeated every 5 minutes. The sample method fixture defined in Figure 1 of appendix A shall be operated at 24 °C. Contaminated CFC-12 samples shall be processed at ambient temperatures of 10 and 49 °C.
6.2.1 Contaminated CFC-12 sample.
6.2.2 Standard contaminated CFC-12 refrigerant, 13.6 Kg sample size, shall consist of liquid CFC-12 with 100 ppm (by weight) moisture at 21 °C and 45,000 ppm (by weight) mineral oil 525 suspension nominal and 770 ppm (by weight) of noncondensable gases (air).
6.3 Portable refillable containers used in conjunction with this equipment must meet applicable DOT standards.
6.3.1 The container color must be gray with yellow top to identify that it contains used CFC-12 refrigerant. It must be permanently marked on the outside surface in black print at least 20 mm high “DIRTY R-12—DO NOT USE, MUST BE REPROCESSED”.
6.3.2 The portable refillable container shall have a SAE
3/8
inch flare male thread connection as identified in SAE J639 CFC-12 High Pressure Charging Valve Figure 2.
6.3.3 During operation the equipment shall provide overfill protection to assure that the storage container liquid fill does not exceed 80% of the tank's rated volume at 21 °C per DOT standard, CFR Title 49, section 173.304 and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
6.4 Additional Storage Tank Requirements.
6.4.1 The cylinder valve shall comply with the standard for cylinder valves, UL 1769.
6.4.2 The pressure relief device shall comply with the pressure relief device standard part 1, CGA pamphlet S-1.1.
6.4.3 The container assembly shall be marked to indicate the first retest date, which shall be 5 years after date of manufacture. The marking shall indicate that retest must be performed every subsequent five years. The marking shall be in letters at least 6 mm high.
6.5 All flexible hoses must meet SAE J2196 standard for service hoses.
6.6 Service hoses must have shutoff devices located within 30 cm of the connection point to the system being serviced to minimize introduction of noncondensable gases into the recovery equipment during connection and the release of the refrigerant during disconnection.
6.7 The equipment must be able to separate the lubricant from the recovered refrigerant and accurately indicate the amount removed from the system during processing in 30 ml units.
6.7.1 The purpose of indicating the amount of lubricant removed is to ensure that a proper amount is returned to the mobile air-conditioning system for compressor lubrication.
6.7.2 Refrigerant dissolved in this lubricant must be accounted for to prevent system lubricant overcharge of the mobile air-conditioning system.
6.7.3 Only new lubricant, as identified by the system manufacturer, should be replaced in the mobile air-conditioning system.
6.7.4 Removed lubricant from the system and/or the equipment shall be disposed of in accordance with applicable federal, state and local procedures and regulations.
6.8 The equipment must be capable of continuous operation in ambient temperatures of 10 °C to 49 °C and comply with 6.1.
6.9 The equipment should be compatible with leak detection material that may be present in the mobile air-conditioning system.
7.0 For test validation, the equipment is to be operated according to the manufacturer's instructions.
[60 FR 21688, May 2, 1995]
Pt. 82, Subpt. B, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart B of Part 82—SAE J2788 Standard for Recovery/Recycle and Recovery/Recycle/Recharging Equipment for HFC-134
a

# Refrigerant

# Foreword
This Appendix establishes the specific minimum equipment requirements for the recovery/recycling of HFC-134a that has been directly removed from, and is intended for reuse in, mobile air-conditioning systems and recovery/recycling and system recharging of recycled, reclaimed or virgin HFC-134a. Establishing such specifications will ensure that system operation with recycled HFC-134a will provide the same level of performance and durability as new refrigerant.

# 1. Scope
The purpose of this SAE Standard is to establish the specific minimum equipment performance requirements for recovery and recycling of HFC-134a that has been directly removed from, and is intended for reuse in, mobile air-conditioning (A/C) systems. It also is intended to establish requirements for equipment used to recharge HFC-134a to an accuracy level that meets Section 9 of this document and SAE J2099. The requirements apply to the following types of service equipment and their specific applications.
a. Recovery/Recycling Equipment,
b. Recovery/Recycling—Refrigerant Charging,
c. Refrigerant Recharging Equipment Only.
1.1 Improved refrigerant recovery equipment is required to ensure adequate refrigerant recovery to reduce emissions and provide for accurate recharging of mobile air conditioning systems. Therefore, 12 months following the publication date of this standard, requirements in this standard supplements and supersedes, SAE J2210.

# 2. References

# 2.1 Applicable Publications
The following publications form a part of this specification to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise indicated, the latest issue of SAE publications shall apply.

# 2.1.1 SAE Publications
Available from SAE, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001, Tel: 877-606-7323 (inside USA and Canada) or 724-776-4970 (outside USA),
www.sae.org.

# SAE J2099 Standard of Purity for Recycled HFC-134a (R-134a) for Use in Mobile Air-Conditioning Systems

# SAE J2196 Service Hoses for Automotive Air-Conditioning

# SAE J2197 Service Hose Fittings for Automotive Air-Conditioning

# SAE J2296 Retest of Refrigerant Container

# 2.1.2 CGA Publications
Available from CGA, 4221 Walney Road, 5th Floor, Chantilly VA 20151-2923, Tel: 703-788-2700,
http://www.cganet.com.

# CGA Pamphlet S-1.1 Pressure Relief Device Standard Part 1—Cylinders for Compressed Gases 2.1.3 DOT Publications
Available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Mail Stop: SSOP, Washington, DC 20402-9320.

# OT Standard, CFR Title 49, Section 173.304 Shippers—General Requirements for Shipments and Packagings

# 2.1.4 UL Publications
Available from Underwriters Laboratories Inc., 333 Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062-2096, Tel: 847-272-8800,
http://www.ul.com.

# UL 1769 Cylinder Valves

# UL 1963 Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment

# 3. Specification and General Description
3.1 The equipment must be able to remove and process HFC-134a (R-134a) from mobile A/C systems to the purity level specified in SAE J2099.
3.2 The equipment shall be suitable for use in an automotive service garage environment and be capable of continuous operation in ambients from 10 °C to 49 °C (50 °F to 120 °F). If it is designed to recharge a system, and it uses a scale for this purpose, the scale must demonstrate the ability to maintain accuracy per the test in 10.2.
3.3 The equipment must be certified that it meets this specification by an EPA listed certifying laboratory.
3.4 The equipment shall have a label, which states, “Certified by (Certifying Agent) to Meet SAE J2788 superseding SAE J2210” in bold-type letters a minimum of 3 mm (
1/8
in) in height.

# 4. Refrigerant Recycling Equipment Requirements

# 4.1 Moisture and Acid
The equipment shall incorporate a desiccant package that must be replaced before saturation with moisture, and whose mineral acid capacity is at least 5% by weight of the dry desiccant.
4.1.1 The equipment shall be provided with a means of indicating when the filter desiccant moisture capacity has reached the allowable limit and desiccant replacement is required. This may include a reliable means of detecting moisture level or an algorithm based on the amount refrigerant recovered. The user must be clearly alerted to replace the filter prior to the full saturation. Warnings shall be displayed on screens and (printed on printouts where applicable). The warnings must explain that the machine is approaching the end of filter life. The manufacturer must incorporate a lockout when the end of filter life is reached.
4.1.2 The manufacturer shall use an identification system to ensure that a new filter has been installed to reset the machine for operation.

# 4.2 Filter
The equipment shall incorporate an in-line filter that will trap particulates of 15 micron spherical diameter or greater.

# 4.3 Scale (if used)
The scale must maintain accuracy when moved, as per the test in Section 10.

# 4.4 Purging Noncondensable Gases
4.4.1 The equipment shall automatically purge noncondensables (NCGs), which are primarily air, if the acceptable level is exceeded. NCG removal must be part of the normal operation of the equipment and instructions must be provided to enable the task to be accomplished within 30 min (to reach the refrigerant purity level specified in SAE J2099).
4.4.2 Refrigerant loss from noncondensable gas purging during the testing described in Section 8 shall be minimized by a method that initiates a purge when the machine has not been in use for a period long enough for air-refrigerant separation in the tank to have occurred.

# 4.5 Recharging and Transfer of Recycled Refrigerant
Recycled refrigerant for recharging and transfer shall be taken from the liquid phase only.

# 5. Safety Requirements
5.1 The equipment must comply with applicable federal, state, and local requirements on equipment related to handling HFC-134a material. Safety precautions or notices related to safe operation of the equipment shall be prominently displayed on the equipment and should also state “CAUTION—SHOULD BE OPERATED BY QUALIFIED PERSONNEL.”
5.2 Under NO CIRCUMSTANCES should any equipment be pressure tested or leak tested with air/HFC-134a mixtures.
Do not use compressed air (shop air) or leak detection in systems containing HFC-134a.

# 6. Operating Instructions
6.1 The equipment manufacturer shall provide a warning in the instruction manual regarding the possibility of refrigerant contamination in the mobile A/C system being serviced.
6.1.1 If recovery/recycle equipment has refrigerant identification equipment, the refrigerant identification equipment shall meet the requirements of SAE J1771.
6.1.2 Recovery/recycling equipment not having refrigerant identification capability shall have instructions in the equipment manual covering possible contamination problems to the equipment and the contamination of the existing recycled refrigerant in the container in the equipment.
6.2 The equipment manufacturer must provide operating instructions, including proper attainment of vehicle system vacuum (i.e., when to stop the extraction process), filter/desiccant replacement, and purging of noncondensable gases (air). Also to be included are any other necessary maintenance procedures, source information for replacement parts and, repair and safety precautions.
6.2.1 The manual shall identify the proper maintaining of hose and seals to prevent the addition of excess air, due to leaks, during the recovery process, which would increase the NCG level in the recovered refrigerant.
6.3 The equipment must prominently display the manufacturer's name, address, the type of refrigerant it is designed to recycle, a service telephone number, and the part number for the replacement filter/drier.

# 7. Functional Description
The ability of the equipment to meet the refrigerant recovery and recharge specifications of this section shall be determined by the test procedures of Section 10.
7.1 The equipment must be capable of continuous operation in ambient temperatures of 10 °C (50 °F) to 49 °C (120 °F). Continuous is defined as completing recovery/recycle and recharge (if applicable) operations with no more than a brief reset period between vehicles, and shall not include time delays for allowing a system to outgas (which shall be part of the recovery period provided by this standard). Continuous may include time out for an air purge if necessary, although it is understood that extended equipment-off time is preferred to allow NCG and refrigerant separation in the supply tank for optimum results.
7.1.1 The equipment shall be capable of removing a minimum of 95.0% of the refrigerant from the test system in 30 minutes or less, without external heating, or use of any device (such as shields, reflectors, special lights, etc.) which could heat components of the system. The recovery procedures shall be based on 21 to 24 °C (70 to 75 °F) ambient temperature. The test system for qualifying shall be a 1.4 kg (3.0 lbs) capacity orifice tube/accumulator system in a 2005 Chevrolet Suburban with front and rear A/C, or the test option described in 10.5, and shall be determined by accurately weighing the recovery machine with the resolution and accuracy of within 3 g (.006 lb) in the range of the machine's weight. The laboratory shall maintain records of the vehicle, including its VIN (vehicle identification number).
7.1.2 However, the preceding shall not preclude a brief period of engine operation at fast idle (up to 15 minutes, up to 2000 rpm) to circulate refrigerant and oil, and provide some engine and warm-up of A/C refrigeration components. The laboratory shall monitor coolant temperature per the vehicle engine coolant temperature sensor, and coolant temperature shall not be allowed to exceed 105 °C (221 °F). The time required shall not be included in the total time of 30 minutes set forth in 7.1.1.
7.1.3 The refrigerant that is recovered, following oil separation, shall be measured and the quantity displayed, accurate to
within ±30 g (1.0 oz). The equipment must include a provision for checking the accuracy, per the requirements of 9.1.
7.2 During recovery operation, the equipment shall provide overfill protection to assure that the liquid fill of the storage container (which may be integral or external) does not exceed 80% of the tank's rated volume at 21 °C per Department of Transportation (DOT) Standard, CFR Title 49, Section 173.304 and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
7.3 Portable refillable tanks or containers used in conjunction with this equipment must be labeled “HFC-134a (R-134a),” meet applicable Department of Transportation (DOT) or Underwriters Laboratories (UL) Standards, and shall incorporate fittings per SAE J2197.
7.3.1 The cylinder valve shall comply with the standard for cylinder valves, UL 1769.
7.3.2 The pressure relief device shall comply with the Pressure Relief Device Standard Part 1—Cylinders for Compressed Gases, CGA Pamphlet S-1.1.
7.3.3 The tank assembly shall be marked to indicate the first retest date, which shall be 5 years after the date of manufacture. The marking shall indicate that retest must be performed every subsequent 5 years. SAE J2296 provides an inspection procedure. The marking shall be in letters at least 6 mm (
1/4
in) high.
7.3.4 ASME tanks as defined in UL-1963 may be used and are exempt from the retest requirements.
7.3.5 If the machine is designed for recharging, and the marketer permits use of a non-refillable refrigerant tank, the machine shall include a way to ensure refrigerant remaining in the tank (called the “heel”) to no more than 2% of tank rated capacity when the tank is indicated to be empty. This may be done by the machine marketer as follows:
• Specify a non-venting procedure, to minimize the amount of unused refrigerant remaining in the tank. The machine shall include any devices required for the procedure, other than ordinary service shop tools and supplies, and include in the operator's manual, any instructions.
• Provide an automatic or (with instructions in the operator's manual) semi-automatic non-venting procedure with the machine.
The laboratory shall test for the 2% capability. For testing purposes it may use a refillable tank, minimum 15 lb capacity (6.8 kg) containing a minimum of 7.5 lbs (3.4 kg) refrigerant. The test is as follows:
a. Weigh the tank at the start of the test, on a scale accurate to plus/minus 3 grams, to ensure it contains sufficient refrigerant.
b. Operate the machine to remove refrigerant from the tank, charging into a holding container until the tank is indicated to be empty. Continue with the marketer's recommended procedure for the 2% capability.
c. Weigh the tank, on a scale accurate to plus/minus 3 grams.
d. Using the recovery compressor and/or a vacuum pump, draw the tank into a vacuum of 9 to 10 inches Mercury (225 to 250 mm Mercury). The tank must hold that vacuum with a decay of less than 10% in 10 minutes. If vacuum decays 10% or more, the procedure shall be repeated as necessary to ensure the tank is empty.
e. Weigh the tank on a scale accurate to plus/minus 3 grams. The difference in weight from Steps 3 to 5 shall be within 2% of the weight of the amount of refrigerant that is the tanks rated capacity.
f. This test may be performed at the conclusion of testing in 10.4 or 10.5. If the machine passes or has passed all other testing in this standard, the marketer may make modifications in procedure and/or machine operation and retest once at a later date, within 90 days. If the machine fails the retest, the machine must be completely retested per this standard, or may be certified per the following alternative. The marketer of the machine may specify use of a non-refillable refrigerant tank that provides for recycling and/or disposal of the residual refrigerant, in either case in a manner that does not vent. Or the marketer may exclude use of a one-way container, in the machine's operating instructions.
7.4 All flexible hoses must comply with SAE J2196.
7.5 Service hoses must have shutoff devices located at the connection point to the system being serviced. Any hoses or lines connected to refrigerant containers on or in the machine also shall have shutoff devices at the connection points, so that the containers may be changed without loss of refrigerant. A tank that is a permanent installation is exempt from this requirement.
7.6 The equipment shall separate oil from the refrigerant, measure the amount accurate to 20 ml (0.7 oz.), so the technician has an accurate basis for adding oil to the system.
7.6.1 This statement shall be predominately identified in the equipment service manual.

# Note:
Use only new lubricant to replace the amount removed during the recycling process. Used lubricant should be discarded per applicable federal, state and local requirements.

# 8. Testing
This test procedure and its requirements are to be used to determine the ability of the recycling equipment to adequately recycle contaminated refrigerant.
8.1 The equipment shall be able to clean the contaminated refrigerant in § 8.3 to the purity level defined in SAE J2099.
8.2 The equipment shall be operated in accordance with the manufacturer's operating instructions.

# 8.3 Contaminated HFC-134a (R-134a) Sample
8.3.1 The standard contaminated refrigerant shall consist of liquid HFC-134a with 1300 ppm (by weight) moisture (equivalent to saturation at 38 °C, 100 °F), 45000 ppm (by weight) HFC-134a compatible lubricant, and 1000 ppm (by weight) of noncondensable gases (air).
8.3.1.1 The HFC-134a compatible lubricant referred to in 8.3.1, shall be polyalkylene glycol (PAG), ISO 100 such as UCLN or PAG ISO 46-55, such as Idemitsu or equivalent, which shall contain no more than 1000 ppm by weight of moisture.
8.3.1.2 Although the test lubricant is a PAG, to conform to that used in the test vehicle system, the equipment manufacturer also shall ensure that it is compatible with polyol ester lubricant, such as ND 11 as used in electrically driven compressors in some hybrid vehicles.

# 8.4 Test Cycle
8.4.1 The equipment must be preconditioned by processing 13.6 kg (30 lb) of the standard contaminated HFC-134a at an ambient of 21 to 24 °C (70 to 75 °F) before starting the test cycle. 1.13 kg (2.56 lb) samples are to be processed at 5 min intervals. The test fixture, depicted in Figure 1, shall be operated at 21 to 24 °C (70 to 75 °F).
ER09NO07.001
8.4.2 Following the preconditioning procedure per 8.4.1, 18.2 kg (40 lb) of standard contaminated HFC-134a are to be processed by the equipment.

# 8.5 Sample Requirements
8.5.1 Samples of the standard contaminated refrigerant from 8.3.1 shall be processed as required in 8.6 and shall be analyzed
after said processing as defined in 8.7, 8.8, and 8.9. Note exception for noncondensable gas determination in 8.9.4.

# 8.6 Equipment Operating Ambient
8.6.1 The HFC-134a is to be cleaned to the purity level, as defined in SAE J2099, with the equipment operating in a stable ambient of 10, 21, and 49 °C (50, 70 and 120 °F) while processing the samples as defined in 8.4.

# 8.7 Quantitative Determination of Moisture
8.7.1 The recycled liquid phase sample of HFC-134a shall be analyzed for moisture content via Karl Fischer coulometric titration, or an equivalent method. The Karl Fischer apparatus is an instrument for precise determination of small amounts of water dissolved in liquid and/or gas samples.
8.7.2 In conducting this test, a weighed sample of 30 to 130 g is vaporized directly into the Karl Fischer anolyte. A coulometric titration is conducted and the results are reported as parts per million moisture (weight).
8.8 Determination of Percent Lubricant 8.8.1 The amount of lubricant in the recycled HFC-134a sample shall be determined via gravimetric analysis. The methodology must account for the hygroscopicity of the lubricant.
8.8.2 Following venting of noncondensable gases in accordance with the manufacturer's operating instructions, the refrigerant container shall be shaken for 5 min prior to extracting samples for testing.
8.8.3 A weighed sample of 175 to 225 g of liquid HFC-134a is allowed to evaporate at room temperature. The percent lubricant is calculated from weights of the original sample and the residue remaining after evaporation.

# 8.9 Noncondensable Gases—Testing for Amount
8.9.1 The amount of noncondensable gases shall be determined by gas chromatography. A sample of vaporized refrigerant liquid shall be separated and analyzed by gas chromatography. A Porapak Q column at 130 °C (266 °F) and a hot wire detector may be used for the analysis.
8.9.2 This test shall be conducted on liquid phase samples of recycled refrigerant taken from a full container as defined in 7.2 within 30 min following the proper venting of noncondensable gases.
8.9.3 The liquid phase samples in 8.9.2 shall be vaporized completely prior to gas chromatographic analysis.
8.9.4 This test shall be conducted at 10 and 49 °C (50 and 120 °F) and may be performed in conjunction with the testing defined in 8.6. The equipment shall process at least 13.6 kg (30 lb) of standard contaminated refrigerant for this test.
8.9.5 The equipment shall be capable of charging refrigerant into systems with various lubrication types and shall deliver less than 1% by weight residual oil during system charge if the machine permits oil charging with refrigerant (due to residual oil in the service hoses and recovery unit refrigerant circuit from prior recovery, diagnostics and oil injection. This shall be determined during SAE J2099 testing.)

# 9. Recharging the System
9.1 It is the responsibility of the equipment manufacturer to ensure that the vacuum removal performance leaves the system 98% free of NCGs before recharging, following recovery and recycle under the provisions of this document.
The equipment must be capable of both indicating and recharging the system to within 15 g (0.50 oz) of vehicle manufacturer's specifications. The laboratory shall test for this capability by choosing a charge amount that is within the range of the vehicle manufacturer's specifications. The equipment must indicate and charge the system with that chosen amount, within ±15 g (0.5 oz).

# Example:
If 500 g is chosen, the actual and indicated charge must be 485 to 515 g, with any difference between actual and indicated charge within the laboratory scale accuracy requirements of this standard. If a scale is used in the machine, the equipment manufacturer shall provide a method or service for the technician to check scale accuracy, and include any necessary accuracy-checking device (such as a calibration weight(s)) with the machine. If a mass flow system is used for charge determination, it must maintain accuracy equal to the 15 g (0.50 oz) specification. The equipment manufacturer shall provide a method for checking accuracy and include any necessary accuracy testing device(s) with the machine. If the accuracy testing device(s) for a scale or mass flow machine includes a consumable, the manufacturer shall include a quantity of replacement or refill devices for five years of periodic testing as recommended.
9.2 If any other system is used for charge determination, such as a positive displacement pump, the equipment manufacturer shall provide a method and any needed device(s) to check accuracy that is/are appropriate for its method of operation, including any temperature-compensating trim if used.

# 10. Equipment Test Procedure by Laboratory for Recovery/Recycling and Recovery/Recycling/Recharging Machines
10.1 Preliminary: Ambient (in shop) temperature shall be 21 to 24 °C (70 to 75 °F). Test vehicle shall be “overnight cold” (not run for at least eight hours).
10.2 The machine must have a self-contained provision for checking accuracy of
the indicated amount of refrigerant recovered in liquid or vapor or mixture form(s) from a vehicle system and (if applicable) charged into a vehicle, and adjusting if necessary, to meet requirements of 9.1, 9.2. Therefore: If the machine uses a scale for that purpose, check the accuracy of that scale and make any adjustment if necessary. If an alternative method of measuring refrigerant is used, follow the equipment manufacturer's procedure for ensuring accuracy. Next, move the machine, such as by rolling it, along the floor, a minimum of 20 feet (6.1 meters) within 10 seconds. Follow with the test procedure in 10.3, then 10.4 or 10.5.

# 10.3 Test Procedure
If desired, this test procedure may be preceded by engine/system operation for up to 15 minutes, up to 2000 rpm.
1. You must start with an empty system, using this method: (a) Operate machine to recover refrigerant, per equipment manufacturer's instructions. (b) Deep-vacuum system to a minimum of 710 mm (28 in) of mercury. (c) Monitor vacuum for decay, checking every 20 minutes. If decay exceeds 75 mm (3 in), deep vacuum the system again. When system holds 710 mm (28 in) 75 mm (3 in) of mercury vacuum for three hours, it is considered empty.
2. Place machine on a platform scale with the capacity to weigh the recovery/recycle/recharge machine, and with the resolution and accuracy of within ±3 g (.006 lb) in the range of the machine's weight. Weight should include the machine's service hoses draped over the machine, and with the machine's oil reservoir removed. If necessary to add oil to vehicle system as a result of a system operation preparatory to the recovery process, inject the needed quantity through the service valve at this time.
3. Record weight of machine in as weight A.
4. Reconnect service hoses to the test vehicle.
5. Follow the equipment manufacturer's specified procedure for charging the vehicle manufacturer's recommended amount of refrigerant into the system. Note: if this does not apply to the machine under test,
i.e.
a recovery/recycling only machine, the use of charging equipment that meets this standard and the platform scale shall be used to verify the accuracy of the charge.
6. Disconnect the service hoses from the test vehicle and drape them on the machine. Check and record the weight of the machine. Record this weight as weight B. The difference between weight A and weight B should be equal to the recommended charge that was installed per the machine's display, within 15 g (0.5 oz). If the difference is greater than 15 g (±3 g), the machine fails the charge accuracy test, and no other tests shall be performed at that time. The manufacturer must document changes made to improve accuracy and furnish them to the laboratory prior to a new test. Exception: If the maximum deviation is no more than a total of 20 g, the calibration of the scale or other measuring system may be rechecked and readjusted once, and the entire test repeated just once.

# 10.4 Recovery Test Using a Vehicle
1. Following a successful system charge, the system and engine shall be run for 15 minutes at 2000 rpm to circulate oil and refrigerant, following which engine and system shall rest for eight hours. Then the laboratory may begin the recovery test. If the machine manufacturer specifies, operate the engine/system for up to 15 minutes, at up to 2000 rpm, then shut off engine/system.
2. If the machine has an automatic air purge, disable it. Check the weight of the machine with the platform scale (service hoses draped over machine, oil reservoir removed). Record the number as Weight C. Reinstall oil reservoir if it had been removed in the recovery procedure.
3. Start timer. Connect service hoses to system of test vehicle and perform recovery per the equipment manufacturer's instructions. The vehicle system service valves' cores must remain in the fittings for this procedure.
4. When recovery is completed, including from service hoses if that is part of the recommended procedure, disconnect hoses and drape over machine. Stop timer. The elapsed time shall be 30.0 minutes or less. If it is in excess of this time, the machine fails the test and no retest is allowed. The manufacturer must document changes made to the machine to improve its performance before a new test is allowed, and furnish them to the laboratory.
5. If the recovery is completed in no more than the 30.0 minutes, measure the oil level in the reservoir, remove the reservoir and then determine the amount of refrigerant recovered, as detailed in Nos. 6 and 7: As measured by the machine and also by noting the weight of the platform scale, which shall be recorded as Weight D.
6. The platform scale shall indicate that a minimum of 95% of the amount charged into the system has been recovered. If the platform scale indicates a lower percentage has been recovered, the machine fails the recovery test.
7. The machine display shall indicate that a minimum of 95.0% of the amount charged into the system has been recovered, within a tolerance of ±30 g (1 oz) when compared with the platform scale (Weight D minus Weight C). The 30 g (1 oz) tolerance may produce a machine display reading that is below the 95.0% recovery. If a greater difference between machine and platform scale occurs, the machine fails the recovery test.

# 10.5 Recovery Test Fixture Test Option
If an equipment manufacturer chooses, as an alternative to the actual vehicle, it may certify to SAE J2788 with a laboratory fixture that is composed entirely of all the original equipment parts of a single model year for the 3.0 lb capacity front/rear A/C system in the 2005-07 Chevrolet Suburban. All parts must be those OE-specified for one model year system and no parts may be eliminated or bypassed from the chosen system, or reproduced by a non-OE source. No parts may be added and/or relocated from the OE position in the 2005-07 Suburban. No parts may be modified in any way that could affect system performance for testing under this standard, except adding refrigerant line bends and/or loops to make the system more compact. Reducing the total length of the lines, however, is not permitted. The fixture system shall be powered by an electric motor, run at a speed not to exceed 2000 rpm, and for this test option, no system warm-up or equivalent procedure may be used. The certifying laboratory shall maintain records of all parts purchased, including invoices and payments. The assembly of the parts shall, as an outside-the-vehicle package, duplicate the OE system and its routing, including bends, except for permitted additions of bends and/or loops in refrigerant lines. Aside from the absence of engine operation and the limitations posed by the standard and the use of the electric motor, the test shall otherwise be the same as the test on the Suburban, including test temperature.
[72 FR 63495, Nov. 9, 2007]
Pt. 82, Subpt. B, App. D

# Appendix D to Subpart B of Part 82—SAE J2810 Standard for Recovery Only Equipment for HFC-134
a

# Refrigerant

# Foreword
This Appendix establishes the specific minimum equipment requirements for the recovery of HFC-134a that has been directly removed from, motor vehicle air-conditioning systems.

# 1. Scope
The purpose of this SAE Standard is to provide minimum performance and operating feature requirements for the recovery of HFC-134a (R-134a) refrigerant to be returned to a refrigerant reclamation facility that will process it to the appropriate ARI 700 Standard or allow for recycling of the recovered refrigerant to SAE J2788 specifications by using SAE J2788-certified equipment. It is not acceptable that the refrigerant removed from a mobile air-conditioning (A/C) system with this equipment be directly returned to a mobile A/C system.
This information applies to equipment used to service automobiles, light trucks, and other vehicles with similar HFC-134a (R-134a) A/C systems.
1.1 Improved refrigerant recovery equipment is required to ensure adequate refrigerant recovery to reduce emissions and provide for accurate recharging of mobile air conditioning systems. Therefore, 12 months following the publication date of this standard, it supersedes SAE J1732.

# 2. References

# 2.1 Applicable Publications
The following publications form a part of the specification to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise indicated, the latest revision of SAE publications shall apply.

# 2.1.1 SAE Publications
Available from SAE, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001, Tel: 877-606-7323 (inside USA and Canada) or 724-776-4970 (outside USA),
http://www.sae.org.
SAE J639 Safety Standards for Motor Vehicle Refrigerant Vapor Compressions Systems.
SAE J1739 Potential Failure Mode and Effects Analysis in Design (Design FMEA) and Potential Failure Mode and Effects Analysis in Manufacturing and Assembly Processes (Process FMEA) and Effects Analysis for Machinery (Machinery FMEA).
SAE J1771 Criteria for Refrigerant Identification Equipment for Use with Mobile Air-Conditioning Systems.
SAE J2196 Service Hose for Automotive Air Conditioning.
SAE J2296 Retest of Refrigerant Container.
SAE J2788 HFC-134a (R-134a) Recovery/Recycling Equipment and Recovery/Recycling/Recharging for Mobile Air-Conditioning Systems.

# 2.1.2 ARI Publication
Available from Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute, 4100 North Fairfax Drive, Suite 200, Arlington, VA 22203, Tel: 703-524-8800,
http://www.ari.org.
ARI 700 Specifications for Fluorocarbon Refrigerants.

# 2.1.3 CGA Publication
Available from Compressed Gas Association, 4221 Walney Road, 5th Floor, Chantilly, VA 20151-2923, Tel: 703-788-2700,
http://www.cganet.com.
CGA S-1.1 Pressure Relief Device Standard Part 1—Cylinders for Compressed Gases.

# 2.1.4 DOT Specification
Available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Mail Stop: SSOP, Washington, DC 20402-9320.
CFR 49, Section 173.304 Shippers—General Requirements for Shipments and Packagings.

# 2.1.5 UL Publication
Available from Underwriters Laboratories Inc., 333 Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062-2096, Tel: 847-272-8800,
http://www.ul.com.
UL 1769 Cylinder Valves.

# 3. Specifications and General Description
3.1 The equipment must be able to recover (extract) HFC-134a (R-134a) refrigerant from a mobile A/C system per the test procedure of sections 7 and 8.
3.2 The equipment shall be suitable for use in an automotive service garage environment as defined in 6.8.

# 3.3 Equipment Certification
The equipment shall be certified by an EPA-listed laboratory to meet this standard. SAE J2810.

# 3.4 Label Requirements
The equipment shall have a label with bold type, minimum 3 mm high, saying “Design Certified by (certifying agent, EPA listed laboratory) to meet SAE J2810 for use only with HFC-134a (R-134a). If it is to be re-used in an A/C system, the refrigerant recovered with this equipment must be processed to the appropriate ARI 700 specifications or to specifications by using equipment certified to perform to SAE J2788.”

# 3.5 SAE J1739
Potential Failure Mode and Effects Analysis in Design (Design FMEA), Potential Failure Mode and Effects Analysis in Manufacturing and Assembly Processes (Process FMEA), and Potential Failure Mode and Effects Analysis for Machinery (Machinery FMEA) shall be applied to the design and development of service equipment.

# 4. Safety Requirements
4.1 The equipment must comply with applicable federal, state, and local requirements on equipment related to the handling of HFC-134a (R-134a) material. Safety precautions or notices, labels, related to the safe operation of the equipment shall also be prominently displayed on the equipment and should state “CAUTION—SHOULD BE OPERATED ONLY BY CERTIFIED PERSONNEL.” The safety identification shall be located on the front near the controls.
4.2 The equipment must comply with applicable safety standards for the electrical and mechanical systems.

# 5. Operating Instructions
5.1 The equipment manufacturer must provide operating instructions that include information required by SAE J639, necessary maintenance procedures, and source information for replacement parts and repair.
5.1.1 The instruction manual shall include the following information on the lubricant removed. Only new lubricant, as identified by the system manufacturer, should be replaced in the mobile A/C system. Removed lubricant from the system and/or the equipment shall be disposed of in accordance with the applicable federal, state, and local procedures and regulations.
5.2 The equipment must prominently display the manufacturer's name, address, the type of refrigerant it is designed to extract (R-134a), a service telephone number, and any items that require maintenance or replacement that affect the proper operation of the equipment. Operation manuals must cover information for complete maintenance of the equipment to assure proper operation.
5.3 The equipment manufacturer shall provide a warning in the instruction manual regarding the possibility of refrigerant contamination from hydrocarbons, leak sealants and refrigerants other than R-134a in the mobile A/C system being serviced.
5.4 Recovery equipment having refrigerant identification equipment shall meet the requirements of SAE J1771.
5.5 Recovery equipment not having refrigerant identification capability shall have instructions warning the technician that failure to verify that the system contains only R-134a potentially exposes him or her to danger from flammable refrigerants and health hazards from toxic refrigerants. The instructions also shall alert to possible contamination problems to the recovery equipment from sealants and refrigerants other than R-134a, and to the fact that a refrigerant other than R-134a would require special handling by someone with specific expertise and equipment.

# 6. Function Description
6.1 The equipment must be capable of continuous operation in ambient temperatures of 10 °C (50 °F) to 49 °C (120 °F). Continuous is defined as completing recovery operation with no more than a brief reset between servicing vehicles, and shall not include time delays for allowing a system to outgas (which shall be part of the recovery period provided by this standard).
6.1.1 The equipment shall demonstrate ability to recovery a minimum of 95.0% of the refrigerant from the test vehicle in 30.0 minutes or less, without prior engine operation (for previous eight hours minimum), external heating or use of any device (such as shields, reflectors, special lights, etc.), which could heat components of the system.
The recovery procedure shall be based on a test at 21 °C to 24 °C (70 °F to 75 °F) ambient temperature. The test system for qualifying shall be a 1.4 kg (3.0 lbs) capacity orifice tube/accumulator system in a 2005-07 Chevrolet Suburban with front and rear A/C or the test option described in section 9.
6.1.2 The equipment shall demonstrate ability to recover a minimum of 85% of the refrigerant from the test vehicle or system of 6.1.1. in 30.0 minutes or less, at an ambient temperature of 10 °C to 13 °C (50 °F to 55 °F), subject to the same restrictions regarding engine operation and external heating.
6.1.3 During recovery operation, the equipment shall provide overfill protection so that the liquid fill of the storage container does not exceed 80% of the tank's rated volume at 21 °C (70 °F). This will ensure that the container meets Department of Transportation (DOT) Standard, CFR Title 49, section 173.304 and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
6.1.4 Portable refillable tanks or containers used in conjunction with this equipment must be labeled “HFC-134a (R-134a) and meet applicable Department of Transportation (DOT) or Underwriters Laboratories (UL) Standards, and incorporate fittings per SAE J2197.
6.1.5 The cylinder valves shall comply with the standard for cylinder valves UL 1769.
6.1.6 The pressure relief device shall comply with the Pressure Relief Device Standard Part 1—Cylinders for Compressed Gasses CGA Pamphlet S-1.1.
6.1.7 The tank assembly shall be marked to indicate the first retest date, which shall be five years from the date of manufacture. The marking shall indicate that retest must be performed every subsequent five years. SAE J2296 provides an inspection procedure. The marking shall be in letters at least 6 mm (0.25 in) high. If ASME tanks, as defined in UL-1963, are used, they are exempt from the retest requirements.
6.2 If the marketer permits use of a refillable refrigerant tank, a method must be provided (including any necessary fittings) for transfer to a system that ensures proper handling (recycling or other, environmentally-legal disposal).
Restricting the equipment to use of non-refillable tanks eliminates compliance with this provision.
6.3 Prior to testing under this standard, the equipment must be preconditioned with a minimum of 13.6 kg of the standard contaminated HFC-134a (R-134a) at an ambient of 21 °C before starting the test cycle. Sample amounts are not to exceed 1.13 kg with sample amounts to be repeated every 5 min. The test fixture shown in Figure 1 shall be operated at 21 °C. Contaminated HFC-134a (R-134a) samples shall be processed at ambient temperatures of 10 °C and 49 °C (50 °F to 120 °F), without the equipment shutting down due to any safety devices employed in this equipment.
6.3.1 Contaminated HFC-134a (R-134a) sample shall be standard contaminated HFC-134a (R-134a) refrigerant, 13.6 kg sample size, consisting of liquid HFC-134a (R-134a) with 1300 ppm (by weight) moisture at 21 °C (70 °F) and 45 000 ppm (by weight) of oil (polyalkylene glycol oil with 46-160 cst viscosity at 40 °C) and 1000 ppm by weight of noncondensable gases (air).
6.3.2 Portable refillable containers used in conjunction with this equipment must meet applicable DOT Standards. The color of the container must be blue with a yellow top to indicate the container holds used HFC-134a (R-134a) refrigerant. The container must be permanently marked on the outside surface in black print at least 20 mm high, “CONTAMINATED HFC-134a (R-134a)—DO NOT USE, MUST BE REPROCESSED.”

# Figure 1—Test Fixture
6.3.3 The portable refillable container shall have a
1/2
in ACME thread.
6.4 Additional Storage Tank Requirements.
6.4.1 The cylinder valve shall comply with UL 1769.
6.4.2 The pressure relief device shall comply with CGA Pamphlet S-1.1.
6.5 All flexible hoses must meet SAE J2196 for service hoses.
6.6 Service hoses must have shutoff devices located at the connection points to the system being serviced to minimize introduction of noncondensable gases into the recovery equipment during connection and the release of the refrigerant during disconnection.
6.7 The equipment must be able to separate the lubricant from recovered refrigerant and accurately indicate the amount removed from the simulated automotive system during processing in 20 mL (0.7 fl oz) units.
6.7.1 The purpose of indicating the amount of lubricant removed is to ensure that a proper amount of new lubricant is returned to the mobile A/C system for compressor lubrication, if the system is to be charged with equipment meeting SAE J2788.
6.7.2 Refrigerant dissolved in this lubricant must be accounted for to prevent lubricant overcharge of the mobile A/C system.
6.8 The equipment must be capable of continuous operation in ambient temperatures of 10 °C to 49 °C (50 °F to120 °F) and comply with 6.1 to 6.4 of this standard.
6.9 For test validation, the equipment is to be operated according to the manufacturer's instructions.
7. Test Procedure A at 21 °C to 24 °C (70 °F to 75 °F).
The test vehicle (2005-2007 Chevrolet Suburban with rear A/C system—1.4 kg/ 3.0 lb) or laboratory fixture per section 10.5 of SAE
J2788, shall be prepared as for SAE J2788, section 10.3, following Steps 1, 2, 3, 4, and then the following:
7.1 Using a machine certified to SAE J2788 and with the machine on a platform scale with accuracy to within plus/minus 3.0 grams at the weight of the machine, charge the system to the vehicle manufacturer's recommended amount of refrigerant (1.4 kg-3.0 lb). The actual charge amount per the reading on the platform scale shall be used as the basis for the recovery efficiency of the recovery-only machine being tested to this standard. Run the engine (or operate test fixture with electric motor) for up to 15 minutes at up to 2000 rpm to circulate oil and refrigerant. The system then must rest for eight hours.
7.2 Place the recovery machine on the platform scale and record the weight with the hoses draped over the machine. Ambient temperature shall be within the range of 21 °C to 24 °C (70 °F to 75 °F) for this test, which shall be performed without the immediately prior engine operation permitted by SAE J2788, Section 10.3, Step No.1. The only permitted engine operation is as specified in 7.1.
7.3 Start the timer. Connect the service hoses to the system of the test vehicle and perform the recovery per the equipment manufacturer's instructions. The vehicle system's service valve cores must remain in the fittings for this procedure.
7.4 When recovery is completed, including from the service hoses if that is part of the recommended procedure, disconnect the hoses and drape over the machine. Stop the timer. The elapsed time shall be no more than 30 minutes.
7.5 Remove the oil reservoir, empty and reinstall. The platform scale shall indicate that a minimum of 95.0% of the refrigerant has been recovered, based on the charge amount indicated by the platform scale. If the machine has recovered the minimum of 95.0% within the 30.0 minutes, the next test shall be performed. If it fails this test, the marketer of the equipment must document changes to the equipment to upgrade performance before a retest is allowed. If it passes, the laboratory can proceed to Test Procedure B-10 °C to 13 °C (50 °F to 55 °F).
8. Test Procedure B at 10 °C to 13 °C (50 °F to 55 °F).
The test vehicle (2005-2007 Chevrolet Suburban front/rear A/C system (1.4 kg/3.0 lb) or test fixture per section 10.5 of SAE J2788, shall be prepared as per 7.0 and 7.1 of this standard, and then the following:
8.1 Place the recovery machine on the platform scale and record the weight with the hoses draped over the machine.
Ambient temperature at this time shall be no higher than 10 °C to13 °C (50 °F to 55 °F).
8.2 Start the timer. Connect the service hoses to the system of the test vehicle and perform the recovery per the equipment manufacturer's instructions. This also shall be performed without the immediately prior engine operation permitted by SAE J2788, section 10.4, Step No. 1. The vehicle system's service valve cores must remain in the fittings for this procedure.
8.3 When recovery is completed, including from the service hoses if that is part of the recommended procedure, disconnect the hoses and drape over the machine. Stop the timer. The elapsed time shall be no more than 30 minutes.
8.4 Remove the oil reservoir, empty and reinstall. The platform scale shall indicate that a minimum of 85.0% of the refrigerant has been recovered, based on the charge amount indicated by the platform scale. If the machine has recovered the minimum of 85.0% within the 30 minutes, it has passed the test procedure and if it meets all other requirements of this standard, it is certified.

# 9. Test Option
As in SAE J2788, Section 10.5, as an alternative to a 2005-2007 Chevrolet Suburban with rear A/C (1.4 kg-3.0 lb) system, a laboratory test fixture may be used to certify to SAE J2810 the fixture must be composed entirely of all the original equipment parts of a single model year for the 1.4 kg (3.0 lb) capacity system. All parts must be those OE-specified for one model year system and no parts may be eliminated or bypassed from the chosen system or reproduced from a non-OE source. No parts may be added and/or relocated from the OE position in the 2005-07 Suburban. No parts may be modified in any way that could affect system performance for testing under this standard, except adding refrigerant line bends and/or loops to make the system more compact. Reducing the total length of the lines, however, is not permitted.
The fixture systems for this standard shall not be powered by an electric motor during recovery, although a motor can be used, run at a speed not to exceed 2000 rpm, as part of the preparatory process, including installation of the charge.
[73 FR 34647, June 18, 2008]
Pt. 82, Subpt. B, App. E

# Appendix E to Subpart B of Part 82—The Standard for Automotive Refrigerant Recycling Equipment Intended for Use With Both CFC-12 and HFC-134
a
SAE J2211, Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of HFC-134a, as set forth under Appendix C of this subpart, and SAE J1989, Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of CFC-12, as set forth under Appendix A of this subpart, also apply to this Appendix E of this subpart.
SAE J1770, issued December, 1995.

# Automotive Refrigerant Recycle Equipment Intended for Use With Both CFC-12 and HFC-134
a

# Foreword
The purpose of this standard is to establish specific minimum equipment requirements for automotive refrigerant recycling equipment intended for use with both CFC-12 and HFC-134a in a common refrigerant circuit. Establishing such specifications will assure that this equipment does not cross contaminate refrigerant above specified limits when used under normal operating conditions.

# 1. Scope
The purpose of this standard is to establish the specific minimum equipment intended for use with both CFC-12 and HFC-134a in a common refrigerant circuit that has been directly removed from, and is intended for reuse in, mobile air-conditioning (A/C) systems. This standard does not apply to equipment used for CFC-12 and HFC-134a having a common enclosure with separate circuits for each refrigerant.

# 2. References
2.1 Applicable Documents—The following publications form a part of this specification to the extent specified. The latest issue of SAE publications shall apply.
2.1.1 SAE Publications—Available from SAE, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001.
SAE J2099—Standard of Purity for Recycled HFC-134a for Use in Mobile Air-Conditioning Systems
SAE 1991—Standard of Purity for Use in Mobile Air-Conditioning Systems
SAE J2196—Service Hoses for Automotive Air-Conditioning
SAE J2197—Service Hose Fittings for Automotive Air-Conditioning
SAE J2210—HFC-134a (R-134a) Recycling Equipment for Mobile A/C Systems
SAE J1990—Extraction and Recycling Equipment for Mobile A/C Systems
2.1.2 Compressed Gas Association (CGA) Publications—Available from CGA, 1235 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA 22202.
CGA Pamphlet S-1.1—Pressure Relief Device Standard
Part 1—Cylinders for Compressed Gases
2.1.3 DOT Publications—Available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402
2.1.4 UL Publications—Available from Underwriters Laboratories, 333 Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062-2096.
UL 1769—Cylinder Valves
UL 1963—Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment

# 3. Specification and General Description
3.1 The equipment shall be suitable for use in an automotive service garage environment and be capable of continuous operation in ambients from 10 to 49 °C.
3.2 The equipment must be certified that it meets this specification by Underwriters Laboratories Inc. (UL), or by an equivalent Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL).
3.3 The equipment shall have a label which states “Design Certified by (Certifying Agent) to meet SAE J1770 for recycling CFC-12 and HFC-134a using common refrigerant circuits”, in bold-type letters a minimum of 3 mm in height.

# 4. Equipment Requirements
4.1 General
4.1.1 The equipment shall be capable of preventing cross contamination to the level required by Section 9.2.1.G before an operation involving a different refrigerant can begin. The equipment must prevent initiation of the recovery operation if the equipment is not set up properly.
4.1.2 If an operator action is required to clear the unit prior to reconnecting for a different refrigerant, the equipment shall be provided with a means which indicates which refrigerant was last processed.
4.1.3 Means shall be provided to prevent recovery from both an CFC-12 and HFC-134a mobile air conditioning system concurrently.
4.1.4 Transfer of recycled refrigerant—Recycled refrigerant for recharging and transfer shall be taken from the liquid phase only.
4.2 Seat Leakage Test
4.2.1 Valves, including electrically operated solenoid valves, that are used to isolate CFC-12 and HFC-134a refrigerant circuits, shall have a seat leakage rate not exceeding 15 g/yr (
1/2
oz/yr) before and after 100,000 cycles of operation. This Endurance Test shall be conducted with HFC-134a at maximum operating pressure as determined by sections 8.1 and 8.2. The Seat Leakage Test shall be performed at 1.5 times this pressure at an ambient of 24 °C.
4.3 Interlocks
4.3.1 Electrical interlock devices used to prevent cross contamination of refrigerant shall be operated for 100,000 cycles and there shall be no failure that would permit cross contamination of refrigerant. Solid state inter lock devices shall comply with the Transient Overvoltage Test and the Fast Transient (Electric Noise) Test contained in the Standard for Tests for Safety Related Controls Employing Solid-State Devices, UL 991.
4.4 Noncondensable Gases
4.4.1 The equipment shall either automatically purge noncondensables (NCGs) if
the acceptable level is exceeded or incorporate a device that indicates to the operator the NCG level has been exceeded. A pressure gauge used to indicate an NCG level shall be readable in 1 psig increments. NCG removal must be part of the normal operation of the equipment and instructions must be provided to enable the task to be accomplished within 30 minutes.
4.4.2 Refrigerant loss from noncondensable gas purging, oil removal, and refrigerant clearing shall not exceed more than 5 percent by weight of the total amount of refrigerant through the equipment as detailed in Sections 8.1, 8.2, and 9.2.
4.5 Filter
4.5.1 A 15 micron filter, or other equivalent means, to remove particulates of 15 micrometers spherical diameter or greater shall be located before any manual electrically operated valves that may cause cross contamination.
4.6 Moisture and Acid
4.6.1 The equipment shall incorporate a desiccant package that must be replaced before saturated with moisture, and whose acid capacity is at least 5% by weight of the dry desiccant.
4.6.2 The equipment shall be provided with a moisture detection means that will reliably indicate when moisture in the HFC-134a exceeds 50 ppm, or in the CFC-12 exceeds 15 ppm, and requires the filter/drier replacement.

# 5. Operating Instructions
5.1 The equipment manufacturer must provide operating instructions, including proper attainment of vehicle system vacuum (
i.e.,
when to stop the extraction process, and also to stop the extraction process if it is noticed that the A/C system being serviced has a leak), filter/desiccant replacement, and purging of noncondensable gases (air). The instructions shall indicate that the correct sequence of operation be followed so that the equipment can properly remove contaminates to the acceptable level. Also to be included are any other necessary maintenance procedures, source information for replacement parts and repair, and safety precautions.
5.2 The equipment must prominently display the manufacturer's name, address, the type of refrigerant (CFC-12 and HFC-134a), a service telephone number, and the part number for the replacement filter/drier. Operation manuals must cover information for complete maintenance of the equipment to assure proper operation.

# 6. Safety Requirements
6.1 The equipment must comply with applicable federal, state, and local requirements on equipment related to handling CFC-12 and HFC-134a material. Safety precautions or notices related to the safe operation of the equipment shall be prominently displayed on the equipment and should also state “CAUTION—SHOULD BE OPERATED BY QUALIFIED PERSONNEL”.
6.2 HFC-134a has been shown to be nonflammable at ambient temperature and atmospheric pressure. The following statement shall be in the operating manual: “Caution: HFC-134a service equipment or vehicle A/C systems should not be pressure tested or leak tested with compressed air. Some mixtures of air and HFC-134a have been shown to be combustible at elevated pressures (when contained in a pipe or tank). These mixtures may be potentially dangerous, causing injury or property damage. Additional health and safety information may be obtained from refrigerant and lubricant manufacturers.”

# 7. Functional Description
7.1 General
7.1.1 The equipment must be capable of ensuring recovery of the CFC-12 and HFC-134a from the system being serviced, by reducing the system to a minimum of 102 mm of mercury below atmospheric pressure (
i.e.,
vacuum).
7.1.2 The equipment must be compatible with leak detection material that may be present in the mobile A/C system.
7.2 Shut Off Device
7.2.1 To prevent overcharge, the equipment must be equipped to protect the tank used to store the recycled refrigerant with a shutoff device and a mechanical pressure relief valve.
7.3 Storage Tanks
7.3.1 Portable refillable tanks or containers shall be supplied with this equipment and must be labeled “HFC-134a” or “CFC-12” as appropriate, meet applicable Department of Transportation (DOT) or NRTL's Standards and be adaptable to existing refrigerant service and charging equipment.
7.3.2 The cylinder valve shall comply with the Standard for Cylinder Valves, UL 1769.
7.3.3 The pressure relief device shall comply with the Pressure Relief Device Standard Part 1—Cylinders for Compressed Gases, CGA Pamphlet S-1.1.
7.3.4 The tank assembly shall be marked to indicate the first retest date, which shall be 5 years after the date of manufacture. The marking shall indicate that retest must be performed every subsequent 5 years. The marking shall be in letters at least 6 mm high.
7.4 Overfill Protection
7.4.1 During operation, the equipment must provide overfill protection to assure that during filling or transfer, the tank or storage container cannot exceed 80% of volume at 21.1 °C of its maximum rating as defined by DOT standards, 49 CFR 173.304 and American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
7.5 Hoses and Connections
7.5.1 Separate inlet and outlet hoses with fittings and separate connections shall be provided for each refrigerant circuit.
7.5.2 All flexible hoses and fittings must meet SAE J2196 (for CFC-12) and SAE J2197 (for HFC-134a).
7.5.3 Service hoses must have shutoff devices located within 30 cm of the connection point to the system being serviced.
7.6 Lubricant Separation
7.6.1 The equipment must be able to separate the lubricant from the removed refrigerant and accurately indicate the amount of lubricant removed during the process, in 30 mL (1 fl oz) units. Refrigerant dissolves in lubricant and, as a result, increases the volume of the recovered lubricant sample. This creates the illusion that more lubricant has been recovered that actually has been. The equipment lubricant measuring system must take into account such dissolved refrigerant removed from the A/C system being serviced to prevent overcharging the vehicle system with lubricant.

# (Note:
Use only new lubricant to replace the amount removed the recycling process. Used lubricant should be discarded per applicable federal, state and local requirements.)
7.6.2 The equipment must be provided with some means, such as a lockout device, which will prevent initiation of the recovery operation after switching to the other refrigerant, if the lubricant has not been drained from the oil separator.

# 8. Testing
8.0 Equipment shall be tested in sequence as noted in sections 8.1, 8.2 and 9.2. The filter/drier may be replaced only as noted by section 4.6.2.
8.1 CFC-12 Recycling Cycle
8.1.1 The maximum operating pressure of the equipment shall be determined when recycling CFC-12 while conducting the following tests. This pressure is needed for the Seat Leakage Test, Section 4.2.
8.1.2 The equipment must be preconditioned with 13.6 kg of the standard contaminated CFC-12 (see section 8.1.2a) at an ambient of 21 °C before starting the test cycle. Sample amounts shall be 1.13 kg with sample amounts to be repeated every 5 minutes. The sample method fixture, defined in Figure 1 to Appendix A, shall be operated at 21 °C.
8.1.2a Standard contaminated CFC-12 refrigerant shall consist of liquid CFC-12 with 100 ppm (by weight) moisture at 21 °C and 45,000 ppm (by weight) mineral oil 525 suspension viscosity nominal and 770 ppm by weight of noncondensable gases (air).
8.1.3 The high moisture contaminated sample shall consist of CFC-12 vapor with 1000 ppm (by weight) moisture.
8.1.4 The high oil contaminated sample shall consist of CFC-12 with 200,000 ppm (by weight) mineral oil 525 suspension viscosity nominal.
8.1.5 After preconditioning as stated in section 8.1.2, the test cycle is started, processing the following contaminated samples through the equipment.
A. 13.6 kg (1.13 kg per batch) of standard contaminated CFC-12.
B. 1 kg of high oil contaminated CFC-12.
C. 4.5 kg (1.13 kg per batch) of standard contaminated CFC-12.
D. 1 kg of high moisture contaminated CFC-12.
8.1.6 The CFC-12 is to be cleaned to the minimum purity level, as defined in SAE J1991, with the equipment operating in a stable ambient of 10, 21, and 49 °C and processing the samples as defined in section 8.1.5.
8.2 HFC-134a Recycling Cycle
8.2.1 The maximum operating pressure of the equipment shall be determined when recycling HFC-134a while conducting the following tests. This pressure is needed for the Seat Leakage Test, Section 4.2.
8.2.2 The equipment must be preconditioned by processing 13.6 kg of the standard contaminated HFC-134a (see section 8.2.2a) at an ambient of 21 °C before starting the test cycle. 1.13 kg samples are to be processed at 5 minute intervals. The text fixture shown in Figure 1 to Appendix A shall be operated at 21 °C.
8.2.2a The standard contaminated refrigerant shall consist of liquid HFC-134a with 1300 ppm (by weight) moisture (equivalent to saturation at 38°[100 °F]), 45,000 ppm (by weight) HFC-134a compatible lubricant, and 1000 ppm (by weight) of noncondensable gases (air).
8.2.2b The HFC-134a compatible lubricant referred to in section 8.2.2a shall be a polyalkylene glycol based synthetic lubricant or equivalent, which shall contain no more than 1000 ppm by weight of moisture.
8.2.3 Following the preconditioning procedure per section 8.2.2, 18.2 kg of standard contaminated HFC-134a are to be processed by the equipment at each stable ambient temperature of 10, 21, and 49 °C.
8.2.4 The HFC-134a is to be cleaned to the purity level, as defined in SAE J2099.

# 9. Refrigerant Cross Contamination Test
9.1 General
9.1.1 For test validation, the equipment is to be operated according to the manufacturer's instruction.
9.1.2 The equipment shall clean the contaminated CFC-12 refrigerant to the minimum purity level as defined in Appendix A, when tested in accordance with the requirements in section 8.1.
9.1.3 The equipment shall clean the contaminated HFC-134a refrigerant to the purity
level defined in Appendix C, when tested in accordance with the requirements in section 8.2.
9.2 Test Cycle
9.2.1 The following method shall be used after the tests and requirements in Sections 8.1 and 8.2, respectively, are completed. Following the manufacturer's instructions, the equipment shall be cleared of HFC-134a, prior to beginning step A. The only refrigerant used for this is noted in steps A, C, and E of section 9.2.1. The test fixture shown in Figure 1 to Appendix A shall be used and the test shall be conducted at 10, 21, and 49 °C ambients.
A. A 1.13 kg standard contaminated sample of CFC-12 (see section 8.1.2a) shall be processed by the equipment.
B. Follow manufacturer's instructions to clear the equipment of CFC-12 before processing HFC-134a.
C. Process a 1.13 kg, standard contaminated sample of HFC-134a (see section 8.2.2a) through the equipment.
D. Follow manufacturer's instructions to clear the equipment of HFC-134a before processing CFC-12.
E. Process a 1.13 kg standard contaminated sample of CFC-12 (see section 8.1.2a) through the equipment.
F. Follow manufacturer's instructions to clear the equipment of CFC-12.
G. The amount of cross contaminated refrigerant, as determined by gas chromatography, in samples processed during steps C and E of section 9.2.1., shall not exceed 0.5 percent by weight.

# 10. Sample Analysis
10.1 General
10.1.1 The processed contaminated samples shall be analyzed according to the following procedure.
10.2 Quantitative Determination of Moisture
10.2.1 The recycled liquid phase sample of refrigerant shall be analyzed for moisture content via Karl Fischer coulometer titration or an equivalent method. The Karl Fischer apparatus is an instrument for precise determination of small amounts of water dissolved in liquid and/or gas samples.
10.2.2 In conducting the test, a weighed sample of 30 to 130 g is vaporized directly into the Karl Fischer anolyte. A coulometer titration is conducted and the results are calculated and displayed as parts per million moisture (weight).
10.3 Determination of Percent Lubricant
10.3.1 The amount of lubricant in the recycled sample of refrigerant/lubricant is to be determined by gravimetric analysis.
10.3.2 Following venting of noncondensable, in accordance with the manufacturer's operating instructions, the refrigerant container shall be shaken for 5 minutes prior to extracting samples for test.
10.3.3 A weighed sample of 175 to 225 g of liquid refrigerant/lubricant is allowed to evaporate at room temperature. The percent lubricant is to be calculated from the weight of the original sample and the residue remaining after the evaporation.
10.4 Noncondensable Gas
10.4.1 The amount of noncondensable gas is to be determined by gas chromatography. A sample of vaporized refrigerant liquid shall be separated and analyzed by gas chromatography. A Propak Q column at 130 °C and a hot wire detector may be used for analysis.
10.4.2 This test shall be conducted on liquid phase samples of recycled refrigerant taken from a full container as defined in 7.4 within 30 minutes following the proper venting of noncondensable gases.
10.4.3 The samples shall be shaken for at least 15 minutes prior to testing while at a temperature of 24 °C ±2.8 °C.
10.5 Refrigerant Cross Contamination
10.5.1 The amount of cross contamination of CFC-12 in HFC-134a or HFC-134a in CFC-12 shall not exceed 0.5 percent by weight as determined by gas chromatography. A sample of vaporized refrigerant liquid shall be separated and analyzed by gas chromatography. A 1% SP-1000 on Carbopack B (60/80 mesh) column may be used for the analysis.
[62 FR 68053, Dec. 30, 1997]
Pt. 82, Subpt. B, App. F

# Appendix F to Subpart B of Part 82—Standard for Recover-Only Equipment That Extracts a Single, Specific Refrigerant Other Than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or R-1234yf

# Foreword
These specifications are for equipment that recovers, but does not recycle, any single, specific automotive refrigerant other than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or HFO-1234yf, including a blend refrigerant.

# 1. Scope
The purpose of this standard is to provide equipment specifications for the recovery of any single, specific refrigerant other than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or HFO-1234yf, including a blend refrigerant, which is either (1) to be returned to a refrigerant reclamation facility that will process the refrigerant to ARI Standard 700-93 or equivalent new product specifications at a minimum, or (2) to be recycled in approved refrigerant recycling equipment, or (3) to be destroyed. This standard applies to equipment used to service automobiles, light trucks, and other vehicles with similar air conditioning systems.

# 2. References
2.1 Applicable Documents—The following publications form a part of this specification
to the extent specified. The latest issue of SAE publications shall apply.
2.1.1 SAE Publications—Available from SAE, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001. SAE J639—Vehicle Service Coupling. SAE J2196—Service Hoses for Automotive Air-Conditioning (fittings modified)
2.1.2 ARI Publication—Available from Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute, 1501 Wilson Boulevard, Sixth Floor, Arlington, VA 22209. ARI 700-93—Specifications for Fluorocarbon Refrigerants.
2.1.3 Compressed Gas Association (CGA) Publications—Available from CGA, 1235 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA 22202. CGA Pamphlet S-1.1—Pressure Relief Device Standard Part 1—Cylinders for Compressed Gases.
2.1.4 DOT Publications—Available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402.
DOT Standard, 49 CFR 173.304—Shippers—General Requirements for Shipments and Packagings.
2.1.5 UL Publications—Available from Underwriters Laboratories, 333 Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062-2096.
UL 1769—Cylinder Valves.
UL 1963—Refrigerant Recovery Recycling Equipment.

# 3. Specifications and General Description
3.1 The equipment must be able to extract from a mobile air conditioning system the refrigerant other than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or HFO-1234yf to which the equipment is dedicated.
3.2 The equipment shall be suitable for use in an automotive service garage environment as defined in section 6.8.
3.3 The equipment discharge or transfer fitting shall be unique to prevent the unintentional use of the extracted refrigerant for recharging auto air conditioners.
3.4 Equipment Certification-The equipment shall be certified by Underwriters Laboratories or an—equivalent certifying laboratory to meet this standard.
3.5 Label Requirements—The equipment shall have a label “Designed Certified by (Company Name) to meet EPA requirements for use only with (the applicable refrigerant). The refrigerant from this equipment must be processed to ARI 700-93 specifications or equivalent new product specifications before reuse in a mobile air-conditioning system.” The minimum letter size shall be bold type 3 mm in height.

# 4. Safety Requirements
4.1 The equipment must comply with applicable federal, state, and local requirements on equipment related to the handling of the applicable refrigerant material. Safety precautions or notices or labels related to the safe operation of the equipment shall also be prominently displayed on the equipment and should state “CAUTION—SHOULD BE OPERATED BY CERTIFIED PERSONNEL.” The safety identification shall be located on the front near the controls.
4.2 The equipment must comply with applicable safety standards for electrical and mechanical requirements.

# 5. Operating Instructions
5.1 The equipment manufacturer must provide operating instructions that include information equivalent to that required by SAE J1629, necessary maintenance procedures, and source information for replacement parts and repair.
5.1.1 The instruction manual shall include the following information on the lubricant removed: Only new lubricant, as identified by the system manufacturer, should be replaced in the air conditioning system. Removed lubricant from the system and/or the equipment shall be disposed on in accordance with the applicable federal, state, and local procedures and regulations.
5.2 The equipment must prominently display the manufacturer's name, address, the type of refrigerant it is designed to extract, a service telephone number, and any items that require maintenance or replacement that affect the proper operation of the equipment. Operation manuals must cover information for complete maintenance of the equipment to assure proper operation.

# 6.1 Functional Description
6.1 The equipment must be capable of ensuring removal of refrigerant from the system being serviced by reducing the system pressure to a minimum of 102 mm (4 in) of mercury below atmospheric pressure (
i.e.,
to a vacuum). To prevent system delayed outgassing, the unit must have a device that assures that the refrigerant has been recovered from the air-conditioning system.
6.1.1 Testing laboratory certification of the equipment capability is required which shall process contaminated refrigerant samples at specific temperatures.
6.2 The equipment must be preconditioned by processing 13.6 kg (30 lb) of the standard contaminated refrigerant at an ambient of 21 °C (70 °F) before starting the test cycle. Sample amounts are not to exceed 1.13 kg (2.5 lb) with sample amounts to be processed at 5 min. intervals. The test method fixture, depicted in Figure 1 to appendix A of this subpart, shall be operated at 21 °C (70 °F). Contaminated refrigerant samples shall be processed at ambient temperatures of 10 and 49 °C, without equipment shutting due to any safety devices employed in this equipment.
6.2.1 Standard contaminated refrigerant, 13.6 kg (30 lb) sample size, shall consist of
liquid refrigerant with 1000 ppm (by weight) moisture at 21 °C and 45,000 ppm (by weight) of oil (total of one-third mineral oil 525 suspension nominal, one-third PAG with 100 cSt viscosity at 40 °C or equivalent, and one-third POE with 68 cSt viscosity at 40 °C or equivalent) and 1000 ppm by weight of noncondensable gases (air). Refrigerant shall be identified prior to the recovery process to ±2% of the original manufacturer's formulation submitted to, and accepted by, EPA under its Significant New Alternatives Policy program, with the exception that any flammable components shall be identified to ±1%.
6.3 Portable refillable containers used in conjunction with this equipment must meet applicable DOT Standards.
6.3.1 The container color must be gray with a yellow top to identify that it contains used refrigerant. It must be permanently marked on the outside surface in black print at least 20 mm high “DIRTY [NAME OF REFRIGERANT]—DO NOT USE, MUST BE PROCESSED”.
6.3.2 The portable refillable container shall have a unique thread connection for the specific refrigerant.
6.3.3 During operation, the equipment shall provide overfill protection to assure that the storage container liquid fill does not exceed 80% of the tank's rated volume at 21 °C per DOT Standard, 49 CFR 173.304, and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
6.4 Additional Storage Tank Requirements
6.4.1 The cylinder valve shall comply with UL 1769.
6.4.2 The pressure relief device shall comply with CGA Pamphlet S-1.1.
6.4.3 The container assembly shall be marked to indicate the first retest date, which shall be 5 years after date of manufacture. The marking shall indicate that retest must be performed every subsequent 5 years. The marking shall be in letters at least 6 mm high.
6.5 All flexible hoses must meet SAE J2196 for service hoses except that fittings shall be unique to the applicable refrigerant.
6.6 Service hoses must have shutoff devices located within 30 cm of the connection point to the system being serviced to minimize introduction of noncondensable gases into the recovery equipment during connection and the release of the refrigerant during disconnection.
6.7 The equipment must be able to separate the lubricant from the recovered refrigerant and accurately indicate the amount removed from the simulated automotive system during processing in 30 mL units.
6.7.1 The purpose of indicating the amount of lubricant is to ensure that a proper amount of new lubricant is returned to the mobile air conditioning system for compressor lubrication.
6.7.2 Refrigerant dissolved in this lubricant must be accounted for to prevent system lubricant overcharge of the mobile air-conditioning system.
6.8 The equipment must be capable of continuous operation in temperatures of 10 to 49 °C and must comply with 6.1 and 6.2.
7. For test validation, the equipment is to be operated according to the manufacturer's instructions.

# Application
The purpose of this standard is to provide equipment specifications for the recovery of any refrigerant other than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or HFO-1234yf for return to a refrigerant reclamation facility that will process it to AHRI Standard 700 (or for recycling in other EPA approved recycling equipment, in the event that EPA in the future designates a standard for equipment capable of recycling refrigerants other than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or HFO-1234yf).

# Reference Section
SAE J639—Vehicle Service Coupling
SAE J2196—Service Hoses for Automotive Air-Conditioning
ARI 700-93—Specifications for Fluorocarbon Refrigerants
CGA Pamphlet S-1.1—Pressure Relief Device Standard Part 1—Cylinders for Compressed Gases
UL 1769—Cylinder Valves
49 CFR 173.304—Shippers—General Requirements for Shipment and Packagings
[62 FR 68055, Dec. 30, 1997, as amended at 86 FR 15596, Mar. 24, 2021]

# Subpart C—Ban on Nonessential Products Containing Class I Substances and Ban on Nonessential Products Containing or Manufactured With Class II Substances

# Source:
58 FR 69675, Dec. 30, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 82.60
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement the requirements of sections 608 and 610 of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1990 on emission reductions and nonessential products.
§ 82.62
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
Chlorofluorocarbon
means any substance listed as Class I group I or Class
I group III in 40 CFR part 82, appendix A to subpart A.
Class II Substance
means any substance designated as class II in 40 CFR part 82, appendix B to subpart A.
Commercial,
when used to describe the purchaser of a product, means a person that uses the product in the purchaser's business or sells it to another person and has one of the following identification numbers:
(1) A federal employer identification number;
(2) A state sales tax exemption number;
(3) A local business license number; or
(4) A government contract number.
Consumer,
when used to describe a person taking action with regard to a product, means the ultimate purchaser, recipient or user of a product.
Distributor,
when used to describe a person taking action with regard to a product means:
(1) The seller of a product to a consumer or another distributor; or
(2) A person who sells or distributes that product in interstate commerce for export from the United States.
Foam Insulation Product,
when used to describe a product containing or consisting of plastic foam, means a product containing or consisting of the following types of foam:
(1) Closed cell rigid polyurethane foam;
(2) Closed cell rigid polystyrene boardstock foam;
(3) Closed cell rigid phenolic foam; and
(4) Closed cell rigid polyethylene foam when such foam is suitable in shape, thickness and design to be used as a product that provides thermal insulation around pipes used in heating, plumbing, refrigeration, or industrial process systems.
Hydrochlorofluorocarbon
means any substance listed as class II in 40 CFR part 82, appendix B to subpart A.
Initial Inventory
means that the original product has completed all of its manufacturing processes and is ready for sale by the manufacturer. Products in initial inventory may be subsequently incorporated into another product by a different manufacturer after purchase. To continue selling products after the effective date of the provisions, the manufacturer or distributor must be able to show, upon request by EPA, that the product was in fact manufactured, and thus placed into initial inventory prior to the effective date. Shipping forms, lot numbers, manufacturer date stamps or codes, invoices, or the like are normally kept records that could be maintained from the time the product was put into initial inventory and may be used to demonstrate when a product was placed in initial inventory.
Polyurethane Foam System
means an item consisting of two transfer pumps that deliver ingredients (polyisocyanate or isocyanate from one side and a mixture including the blowing agent, catalysts, flame retardants, and/or stabilizers from the other side) to a metering/mixing device which allows the components to be delivered in the appropriate proportions.
Product
means an item or category of items manufactured from raw or recycled materials which is used to perform a function or task.
Release
means to emit into the environment during the manufacture, use, storage or disposal of a product.
Space Vehicles
means a man-made device, either manned or unmanned, designed for operation beyond earth's atmosphere. This definition includes integral equipment such as models, mock-ups, prototypes, molds, jigs, tooling, hardware jackets, and test coupons. Also included is auxiliary equipment associated with test, transport, and storage, which through contamination can compromise the space vehicle performance.
[58 FR 69675, Dec. 30, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 64427, Dec. 4, 1996; 66 FR 57522, Nov. 15, 2001; 85 FR 15300, Mar. 17, 2020]
§ 82.64
Prohibitions.
(a) Effective February 16, 1993, no person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce any of the products identified as being nonessential in § 82.66(a).
(b) Effective February 16, 1993, no person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce any of the products specified in
§ 82.66(b) to a person who does not provide proof of being a commercial purchaser, as defined under § 82.62.
(c) Effective January 17, 1994, no person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce any of the products identified as being nonessential in § 82.66(c) or § 82.66(d) except as permitted under § 82.65(g).
(d) Except as permitted under § 82.65, effective January 1, 1994, no person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, in interstate commerce any product identified as being nonessential in § 82.70(a) or § 82.70(c).
(e) Except as permitted under § 82.65, effective January 1, 1994, no person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce any of the products specified in § 82.70(b) to a person who does not provide proof of being a commercial purchaser, as defined under § 82.62.
(f) Except as permitted under § 82.65(d), effective January 1, 1996, no person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, in interstate commerce any product identified as being nonessential in § 82.70(c)(ii).
(g) It is a violation of this subpart to sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, products effected by the provisions of § 82.68 if the seller knew or should have known that the purchaser was purchasing the product for a prohibited application.
(h) No person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce any of the products identified as being nonessential in § 82.66(f).
[58 FR 69675, Dec. 30, 1993, as amended at 85 FR 15300, Mar. 17, 2020]
§ 82.65
Temporary exemptions.
(a) Any person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce, at any time, any products specified as nonessential in § 82.70 which are manufactured and placed into initial inventory by December 31, 1993.
(b) Any person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce, at any time, any products specified as nonessential in § 82.70 which are manufactured and placed into initial inventory within the date 90 days after the effective date of any federal approvals required for product reformulation, where application for the required approval was timely and properly submitted to the approving federal agency prior to January 1, 1994.
(c)(1) Any person may sell or distribute or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce, at any time, any products specified as nonessential in § 82.70 which are manufactured and placed into initial inventory within 45 days after the receipt of denial by any federal agency of an application for reformulation where initial application for the required approval was timely and properly submitted to the approving federal agency prior to January 1, 1994.
(2) If, within 45 days of receipt of a denial of an application for reformulation, a person submits a new viable application for federal approval of a reformulation, that person may continue to sell and distribute, or offer to sell and distribute until 45 days of denial of that application.
(d) Any person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce, at any time, any integral skin foam utilized to provide for motor vehicle safety in accordance with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards, which are manufactured and placed into initial inventory prior to January 1, 1996.
(e) Any person selling or distributing, or offering to sell or distribute, any product specified in this section after January 1, 1994, or January 1, 1996 for paragraph (d) of this section, or after January 17, 1994 for any product specified in paragraph (g) of this section, must retain proof that such product was manufactured and placed into initial inventory before the relevant date specified in this section. Such proof may take the form of shipping forms, lot numbers, manufacturer date stamps, invoices or equivalent business records.
(f) Any person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce, any aircraft pesticide containing class I until an alternative aircraft pesticide containing class II is available in interstate commerce.
(g) Any person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce, at any time, any replacement part that was manufactured with, or contains a class I substance or was packaged in material that was manufactured with or contains a class I substance only if:
(1) The replacement part was manufactured for use in a single model of a product; and
(2) The replacement part and product model are no longer manufactured; and
(3) The replacement part was placed into initial inventory prior to April 16, 1992.
(h) Any person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce, at any time, any air-conditioning or refrigeration products specified as nonessential in § 82.66(e) that are manufactured and placed into initial inventory by January 14, 2002.
(i) Any person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce, at any time, any integral skin foam products manufactured with a Class I substance for use in commercial aviation and specified as nonessential in § 82.66(c) that are manufactured and placed into initial inventory by January 14, 2002.
[58 FR 69675, Dec. 30, 1993, as amended at 66 FR 57522, Nov. 15, 2001]
§ 82.66
Nonessential Class I products and exceptions.
The following products which release a Class I substance (as defined in 40 CFR part 82, appendix A to subpart A) are identified as being nonessential, and subject to the prohibitions specified under § 82.64—
(a) Any plastic party streamer or noise horn which is propelled by a chlorofluorocarbon, including but not limited to—
(1) String confetti;
(2) Marine safety horns;
(3) Sporting event horns;
(4) Personal safety horns;
(5) Wall-mounted alarms used in factories or other work areas; and
(6) Intruder alarms used in homes or cars.
(b) Any cleaning fluid for electronic and photographic equipment which contains a chlorofluorocarbon:
(1) Including but not limited to liquid packaging, solvent wipes, solvent sprays, and gas sprays; and
(2) Except for those sold or distributed to a commercial purchaser.
(c) Any plastic foam product which is manufactured with or contains a Class I substance; except any plastic foam product blown with CFC-11, but which contains no other Class I substances and where this product is used to provide thermal protection to external tanks for space vehicles;
(d) Any aerosol product or other pressurized dispenser, other than those banned in § 82.64(a) or § 82.64(b), which contains a chlorofluorocarbon,
(1) Including but not limited to household, industrial, automotive and pesticide uses,
(2) Except—
(i) Medical devices listed in 21 CFR 2.125(e);
(ii) Lubricants, coatings or cleaning fluids for electrical or electronic equipment, which contain CFC-11, CFC-12, or CFC-113 for solvent purposes, but which contain no other CFCs;
(iii) Lubricants, coatings or cleaning fluids used for aircraft maintenance, which contain CFC-11 or CFC-113 as a solvent, but which contain no other CFCs;
(iv) Mold release agents used in the production of plastic and elastomeric materials, which contain CFC-11 or CFC-113 as a solvent, but which contain no other CFCs, and/or mold release agents that contain CFC-12 as a propellant, but which contain no other CFCs;
(v) Spinnerette lubricant/cleaning sprays used in the production of synthetic fibers, which contain CFC-114 as a solvent, but which contain no other CFCs, and/or spinnerette lubricant/cleaning sprays which contain CFC-12 as a propellant, but which contain no other CFCs;
(vi) Document preservation sprays which contain CFC-113 as a solvent, but which contain no other CFCs, and/or document preservation sprays which contain CFC-12 as a propellant, but which contain no other CFCs, and which are used solely on thick books, books with coated or dense paper and tightly bound documents;
(e) Any air-conditioning or refrigeration appliance as defined in the Clean
Air Act (CAA) 601(1) that contains a Class I substance used as a refrigerant; and
(f) Any polyurethane foam system that contains any CFC.
[58 FR 69675, Dec. 30, 1993, as amended at 66 FR 57522, Nov. 15, 2001; 85 FR 15300, Mar. 17, 2020]
§ 82.68
Verification and public notice requirements.
(a) Effective February 16, 1993, any person who sells or distributes any cleaning fluid for electronic and photographic equipment which contains a chlorofluorocarbon must verify that the purchaser is a commercial entity as defined in § 82.62. In order to verify that the purchaser is a commercial entity, the person who sells or distributes this product must request documentation that proves the purchaser's commercial status by containing one or more of the commercial identification numbers specified in § 82.62(b). The seller or distributor must have a reasonable basis for believing that the information presented by the purchaser is accurate.
(b) Effective February 16, 1993, any person who sells or distributes any cleaning fluid for electronic and photographic equipment which contains a chlorofluorocarbon must prominently display a sign where sales of such product occur which states: “It is a violation of federal law to sell, distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, any chlorofluorocarbon-containing cleaning fluid for electronic and photographic equipment to anyone who is not a commercial user of this product. The penalty for violating this prohibition can be up to $25,000 per sale. Individuals purchasing such products must present proof of their commercial status in accordance with § 82.68(a).”
(c) Effective January 1, 1994, any person who sells or distributes any aerosol or pressurized dispenser of cleaning fluid for electronic and photographic equipment which contains a class II substance must verify that the purchaser is a commercial entity as defined in § 82.62(b). In order to verify that the purchaser is a commercial entity, the person who sells or distributes this product must request documentation that proves the purchaser's commercial status by containing one or more of the commercial identification numbers specified in § 82.62(b).
(d) Effective January 1, 1994, any person who sells or distributes any aerosol or other pressurized dispenser of cleaning fluid for electronic and photographic equipment which contains a class II substance must prominently display a sign where sales of such product occur which states: “It is a violation of federal law to sell, distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, any aerosol hydrochlorofluorocarbon-containing cleaning fluid for electronic and photographic equipment to anyone who is not a commercial user of this product. The penalty for violating this prohibition can be up to $25,000 per unit sold. Individuals purchasing such products must present proof of their commercial status in accordance with § 82.68(c).”
(e) Effective January 1, 1994, in order to satisfy the requirements under § 82.68 (b) and (d), any person who sells or distributes cleaning fluids for electronic and photographic equipment which contain a class I substance and those aerosol or pressurized dispensers of cleaning fluids which contain a class II substance, may prominently display one sign where sales of such products occur which states: “It is a violation of federal law to sell, distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, any chlorofluorocarbon-containing cleaning fluid for electronic and photographic equipment or aerosol hydrochlorofluorocarbon-containing cleaning fluid for electronic and photographic equipment to anyone who is not a commercial user of this product. The penalty for violating this prohibition can be up to $25,000 per unit sold. Individuals purchasing such products must present proof of their commercial status in accordance with 40 CFR 82.68(a) or 82.68(c).”
(f)-(g) [Reserved]
(h) Effective January 1, 1994, any person who sells or distributes any mold release agents containing a class II substance as a propellant must provide written notification to the purchaser prior to the sale that “It is a violation of federal law to sell mold release agents containing
hydrochlorofluorocarbons as propellants to anyone, except for use in applications where no other alternative except a class I substance is available. The penalty for violating this prohibition can be up to $25,000 per unit sold.” Written notification may be placed on sales brochures, order forms, invoices and the like.
(i) Effective January 1, 1994, any person who sells or distributes any wasp and hornet spray containing a class II substance must provide written notification to the purchaser prior to the sale that “it is a violation of federal law to sell or distribute wasp and hornet sprays containing hydrochlorofluorocarbons as solvents to anyone, except for use near high-tension power lines where no other alternative except a class I substance is available. The penalty for violating this prohibition can be up to $25,000 per unit sold.” Written notification may be placed on sales brochures, order forms, invoices and the like.
[58 FR 69675, Dec. 30, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 64427, Dec. 4, 1996]
§ 82.70
Nonessential Class II products and exceptions.
The following products which release a class II substance (as designated as class II in 40 CFR part 82, appendix B to subpart A) are identified as being nonessential and the sale or distribution of such products is prohibited under § 82.64 (d), (e), or (f)—
(a) Any aerosol product or other pressurized dispenser which contains a class II substance:
(1) Including but not limited to household, industrial, automotive and pesticide uses;
(2) Except—
(i) Medical devices listed in 21 CFR 2.125(e);
(ii) Lubricants, coatings or cleaning fluids for electrical or electronic equipment, which contain class II substances for solvent purposes, but which contain no other class II substances;
(iii) Lubricants, coatings or cleaning fluids used for aircraft maintenance, which contain class II substances for solvent purposes but which contain no other class II substances;
(iv) Mold release agents used in the production of plastic and elastomeric materials, which contain class II substances for solvent purposes but which contain no other class II substances, and/or mold release agents that contain HCFC-22 as a propellant where evidence of good faith efforts to secure alternatives indicates that, other than a class I substance, there are no suitable alternatives;
(v) Spinnerette lubricants/cleaning sprays used in the production of synthetic fibers, which contain class II substances for solvent purposes and/or contain class II substances for propellant purposes;
(vi) Document preservation sprays which contain HCFC-141b as a solvent, but which contain no other class II substance; and/or which contain HCFC-22 as a propellant, but which contain no other class II substance and which are used solely on thick books, books with coated, dense or paper and tightly bound documents;
(vii) Portable fire extinguishing equipment used for non-residential applications; and
(viii) Wasp and hornet sprays for use near high-tension power lines that contain a class II substance for solvent purposes only, but which contain no other class II substances.
(b) Any aerosol or pressurized dispenser cleaning fluid for electronic and photographic equipment which contains a class II substance, except for those sold or distributed to a commercial purchaser.
(c) Any plastic foam product which contains, or is manufactured with, a class II substance,
(1) Including but not limited to household, industrial, automotive and pesticide uses,
(2) Except—
(i) Any foam insulation product, as defined in § 82.62(h); and
(ii) Integral skin foam utilized to provide for motor vehicle safety in accordance with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards until January 1, 1996, after which date such products are identified as nonessential and may only be sold or distributed or offered for sale or distribution in interstate commerce in accordance with § 82.65(d).
[58 FR 69675, Dec. 30, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 64427, Dec. 4, 1996]

# Subpart D—Federal Procurement

# Source:
58 FR 54898, Oct. 22, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 82.80
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to require Federal departments, agencies, and instrumentalities to adopt procurement regulations which conform to the policies and requirements of title VI of the Clean Air Act as amended, and which maximize the substitution in Federal procurement of safe alternatives, as identified under section 612 of the Clean Air Act, for class I and class II substances.
(b) The regulations in this subpart apply to each department, agency, and instrumentality of the United States.
§ 82.82
Definitions.
(a)
Class I substance
means any substance designated as class I by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 7671(a), including but not limited to chlorofluorocarbons, halons, carbon tetrachloride and methyl chloroform.
(b)
Class II substance
means any substance designated as class II by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 7671(a), including but not limited to hydrochlorofluorocarbons.
(c)
Controlled substance
means a class I or class II ozone-depleting substance.
(d)
Department, agency and instrumentality of the United States
refers to any executive department, military department, or independent establishment within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 101, 102, and 104(1), respectively, any wholly owned Government corporation, the United States Postal Service and Postal Rate Commission, and all parts of and establishments within the legislative and judicial branches of the United States.
§ 82.84
Requirements.
(a) No later than October 24, 1994, each department, agency and instrumentality of the United States shall conform its procurement regulations to the requirements and policies of title VI of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7671-7671g. Each such regulation shall provide, at a minimum, the following:
(1) That in place of class I or class II substances, or of products made with or containing such substances, safe alternatives identified under 42 U.S.C. 7671k (or products made with or containing such alternatives) shall be substituted to the maximum extent practicable. Substitution is not required for class II substances identified as safe alternatives under 42 U.S.C. 7671k, or for products made with or containing such substances, and such substances may be used as substitutes for other class I or class II substances.
(2) That, consistent with the phaseout schedules for ozone-depleting substances, no purchases shall be made of class II substances, or products containing class II substances, for the purpose of any use prohibited under 42 U.S.C. 7671d(c);
(3) That all active or new contracts involving the performance of any service or activity subject to 42 U.S.C. 7671g or 7671h or regulations promulgated thereunder include, or be modified to include, a condition requiring the contractor to ensure compliance with all requirements of those sections and regulations;
(4) That no purchases shall be made of products whose sale is prohibited under 42 U.S.C. 7671h, except when they will be used by persons certified under section 609 to service vehicles, and no purchase shall be made of nonessential products as defined under 42 U.S.C. 7671i;
(5) That proper labeling under 42 U.S.C. 7671j shall be a specification for the purchase of any product subject to that section.
(b) For agencies subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 48 CFR part 1, amendment of the FAR, consistent with this subpart, shall satisfy the requirement of this section.
§ 82.86
Reporting requirements.
(a) No later than one year after October 22, 1993, each agency, department, and instrumentality of the United States shall certify to the Office of Management and Budget that its procurement regulations have been amended in accordance with this section.
(b) Certification by the General Services Administration that the Federal Acquisition Regulation has been
amended in accordance with this section shall constitute adequate certification for purposes of all agencies subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

# Subpart E—The Labeling of Products Using Ozone-Depleting Substances

# Source:
60 FR 4020, Jan. 19, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 82.100
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to require warning statements on containers of, and products containing or manufactured with, certain ozone-depleting substances, pursuant to section 611 of the Clean Air Act, as amended.
§ 82.102
Applicability.
(a) In the case of substances designated as class I or class II substances as of February 11, 1993, the applicable date of the requirements in this paragraph (a) is May 15, 1993. In the case of any substance designated as a class I or class II substance after February 11, 1993, the applicable date of the requirements in this paragraph (a) is one year after the designation of such substance as a class I or class II substance unless otherwise specified in the designation. On the applicable date indicated in this paragraph (a), the requirements of this subpart shall apply to the following containers and products except as exempted under paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) All containers in which a class I or class II substance is stored or transported.
(2) All products containing a class I substance.
(3) All products directly manufactured with a process that uses a class I substance, unless otherwise exempted by this subpart or, unless the Administrator determines for a particular product that there are no substitute products or manufacturing processes for such product that do not rely on the use of a class I substance, that reduce overall risk to human health and the environment, and that are currently or potentially available. If the Administrator makes such a determination for a particular product, then the requirements of this subpart are effective for such product no later than January 1, 2015.
(b) Applicable January 1, 2015 in any case, or one year after any determination between May 15, 1993 and January 1, 2015, by the Administrator for a particular product that there are substitute products or manufacturing processes for such product that do not rely on the use of a class I or class II substance, that reduce the overall risk to human health and the environment, and that are currently or potentially available, the requirements of this subpart shall apply to the following:
(1) All products containing a class II substance.
(2) All products manufactured with a process that uses a class II substance.
(c) The requirements of this subpart shall not apply to products manufactured prior to May 15, 1993, provided that the manufacturer submits documentation to EPA upon request showing that the product was manufactured prior to that date.
§ 82.104
Definitions.
(a)
Class I substance
means any substance designated as class I in 40 CFR part 82, appendix A to subpart A, including chlorofluorocarbons, halons, carbon tetrachloride and methyl chloroform and any other substance so designated by the Agency at a later date.
(b)
Class II substance
means any substance designated as class II in 40 CFR part 82, appendix A to subpart A, including hydrochlorofluorocarbons and any other substance so designated by the Agency at a later date.
(c)
Completely destroy
means to cause the destruction of a controlled substance by one of the destruction processes approved by the Parties and listed in § 82.3 at a demonstrable destruction efficiency of 98 percent or more or a greater destruction efficiency if required under other applicable Federal regulations.
(d)
Consumer
means a commercial or non-commercial purchaser of a product or container that has been introduced into interstate commerce.
(e)
Container
means the immediate vessel in which a controlled substance is stored or transported.
(f)
Container containing
means a container that physically holds a controlled substance within its structure that is intended to be transferred to another container, vessel or piece of equipment in order to realize its intended use.
(g)
Controlled substance
means a class I or class II ozone-depleting substance.
(h)
Destruction
means the expiration of a controlled substance to the destruction efficiency actually achieved, unless considered completely destroyed as defined in this section. Such destruction might result in a commercially useful end product but such usefulness would be secondary to the act of destruction. Destruction must be achieved using one of the controlled processes approved by the Parties and listed in the definition of
destruction
in § 82.3.
(i)
Distributor
means a person to whom a product is delivered or sold for purposes of subsequent resale, delivery or export.
(j)
Export
means the transport of virgin, used, or recycled class I or class II substances or products manufactured or containing class I or class II substances from inside the United States or its territories to persons outside the United States or its territories, excluding United States military bases and ships for on-board use.
(k)
Exporter
means the person who contracts to sell class I or class II substances or products manufactured with or containing class I or class II substances for export or transfers such substances or products to his affiliate in another country.
(l)
Import
means to land on, bring into, or introduce into, or attempt to land on, bring into, or introduce into any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States whether or not such landing, bringing, or introduction constitutes an importation within the meaning of the customs laws of the United States, with the exception of temporary off-loading of products manufactured with or containers containing class I or class II substances from a ship are used for servicing of that ship.
(m)
Importer
means any person who imports a controlled substance, a product containing a controlled substance, a product manufactured with a controlled substance, or any other chemical substance (including a chemical substance shipped as part of a mixture or article), into the United States. “Importer” includes the person primarily liable for the payment of any duties on the merchandise or an authorized agent acting on his or her behalf. The term also includes, as appropriate:
(1) The consignee;
(2) The importer of record;
(3) The actual owner if an actual owner's declaration and superseding bond has been filed; or
(4) The transferee, if the right to draw merchandise in a bonded warehouse has been transferred.
(n)
Interstate commerce
means the distribution or transportation of any product between one state, territory, possession or the District of Columbia, and another state, territory, possession or the District of Columbia, or the sale, use or manufacture of any product in more than one state, territory, possession or District of Columbia. The entry points for which a product is introduced into interstate commerce are the release of a product from the facility in which the product was manufactured, the entry into a warehouse from which the domestic manufacturer releases the product for sale or distribution, and at the site of United States Customs clearance.
(o)
Manufactured with a controlled substance
means that the manufacturer of the product itself used a controlled substance directly in the product's manufacturing, but the product itself does not contain more than trace quantities of the controlled substance at the point of introduction into interstate commerce. The following situations are excluded from the meaning of the phrase “manufactured with” a controlled substance:
(1) Where a product has not had physical contact with the controlled substance;
(2) Where the manufacturing equipment or the product has had physical contact with a controlled substance in an intermittent manner, not as a routine part of the direct manufacturing process;
(3) Where the controlled substance has been transformed, except for trace quantities; or
(4) Where the controlled substance has been completely destroyed.
(p)
Potentially available
means that adequate information exists to make a determination that the substitute is technologically feasible, environmentally acceptable and economically viable.
(q)
Principal display panel (PDP)
means the entire portion of the surface of a product, container or its outer packaging that is most likely to be displayed, shown, presented, or examined under customary conditions of retail sale. The area of the PDP is not limited to the portion of the surface covered with existing labeling; rather it includes the entire surface, excluding flanges, shoulders, handles, or necks.
(r)
Product
means an item or category of items manufactured from raw or recycled materials, or other products, which is used to perform a function or task.
(s)
Product containing
means a product including, but not limited to, containers, vessels, or pieces of equipment, that physically holds a controlled substance at the point of sale to the ultimate consumer which remains within the product.
(t)
Promotional printed material
means any informational or advertising material (including, but not limited to, written advertisements, brochures, circulars, desk references and fact sheets) that is prepared by the manufacturer for display or promotion concerning a product or container, and that does not accompany the product to the consumer.
(u)
Retailer
means a person to whom a product is delivered or sold, if such delivery or sale is for purposes of sale or distribution in commerce to consumers who buy such product for purposes other than resale.
(v)
Spare parts
means those parts that are supplied by a manufacturer to another manufacturer, distributor, or retailer, for purposes of replacing similar parts with such parts in the repair of a product.
(w)
Supplemental printed material
means any informational material (including, but not limited to, package inserts, fact sheets, invoices, material safety data sheets, procurement and specification sheets, or other material) which accompanies a product or container to the consumer at the time of purchase.
(x)
Transform
means to use and entirely consume a class I or class II substance, except for trace quantities, by changing it into one or more substances not subject to this subpart in the manufacturing process of a product or chemical.
(y)
Type size
means the actual height of the printed image of each capital letter as it appears on a label.
(z)
Ultimate consumer
means the first commercial or non-commercial purchaser of a container or product that is not intended for re-introduction into interstate commerce as a final product or as part of another product.
(aa)
Warning label
means the warning statement required by section 611 of the Act. The term warning statement shall be synonymous with warning label for purposes of this subpart.
(bb)
Waste
means, for purposes of this subpart, items or substances that are discarded with the intent that such items or substances will serve no further useful purpose.
(cc)
Wholesaler
means a person to whom a product is delivered or sold, if such delivery or sale is for purposes of sale or distribution to retailers who buy such product for purposes of resale.
[60 FR 4020, Jan. 19, 1995, as amended at 81 FR 6768, Feb. 9, 2016; 85 FR 15300, Mar. 17, 2020]
§ 82.106
Warning statement requirements.
(a)
Required warning statements.
(1) Unless otherwise exempted by this subpart, each container or product identified in § 82.102(a) or (b) shall bear the following warning statement, meeting the requirements of this subpart for placement and form:
WARNING: Contains [or Manufactured with, if applicable] [
insert name of substance
], a substance which harms public health and environment by destroying ozone in the upper atmosphere.
(2) Each container of fire suppression agent containing HCFC-123 produced or imported on or after January 1, 2020
shall bear the following warning statement, meeting the requirements of this subpart for placement and form:
WARNING: Contains [insert name of substance], a substance which harms public health and environment by destroying ozone in the upper atmosphere. Use Only for Recharge of Equipment Manufactured before January 1, 2020.
(3) Each container of fire suppression agent containing reclaimed HCFC-123 or HCFC-123 that was imported prior to January 1, 2020, shall bear the following warning statement, meeting the requirements of this subpart for placement and form:
WARNING: Contains [insert name of substance], a substance which harms public health and environment by destroying ozone in the upper atmosphere. For use in any equipment.
(b)
Exemptions from warning label requirement.
The following products need not bear a warning label:
(1) Products containing trace quantities of a controlled substance remaining as a residue or impurity due to a chemical reaction, and where the controlled substance serves no useful purpose in or for the product itself. However, if such product was manufactured using the controlled substance, the product is required to be labeled as a “product manufactured with” the controlled substance, unless otherwise exempted;
(2) Containers containing a controlled substance in which trace quantities of that controlled substance remain as a residue or impurity;
(3) Waste containing controlled substances or blends of controlled substances bound for discard;
(4) Products manufactured using methyl chloroform or CFC-113 by persons who can demonstrate and certify a 95% reduction in overall usage from their 1990 calendar year usage of methyl chloroform or CFC-113 as solvents during a twelve (12) month period ending within sixty (60) days of such certification or during the most recently completed calendar year. In calculating such reduction, persons may subtract from quantities used those quantities for which they possess accessible data that establishes the amount of methyl chloroform or CFC-113 transformed. Such subtraction must be performed for both the applicable twelve month period and the 1990 calendar year. If at any time future usage exceeds the 95% reduction, all products manufactured with methyl chloroform or CFC-113 as solvents by that person must be labeled immediately. No person may qualify for this exemption after May 15, 1994;
(5) Products intended only for export outside of the United States shall not be considered “products introduced into interstate commerce” provided such products are clearly designated as intended for export only;
(6) Products that are otherwise not subject to the requirements of this subpart that are being repaired, using a process that uses a controlled substance.
(7) Products, processes, or substitute chemicals undergoing research and development, by which a controlled substance is used. Such products must be labeled when they are introduced into interstate commerce.
(c)
Interference with other required labeling information.
The warning statement shall not interfere with, detract from, or mar any labeling information required on the labeling by federal or state law.
[60 FR 4020, Jan. 19, 1995, as amended at 85 FR 15300, Mar. 17, 2020]
§ 82.108
Placement of warning statement.
The warning statement shall be placed so as to satisfy the requirement of the Act that the warning statement be “clearly legible and conspicuous.” The warning statement is clearly legible and conspicuous if it appears with such prominence and conspicuousness as to render it likely to be read and understood by consumers under normal conditions of purchase. Such placement includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(a)
Display panel placement.
For any affected product or container that has a display panel that is normally viewed by the purchaser at the time of the purchase, the warning statement described in § 82.106 may appear on any such display panel of the affected product or container such that it is “clearly legible and conspicuous” at the time
of the purchase. If the warning statement appears on the principal display panel or outer packaging of any such affected product or container, the warning statement shall qualify as “clearly legible and conspicuous,” as long as the label also fulfills all other requirements of this subpart and is not obscured by any outer packaging, as required by paragraph (b) of this section. The warning statement need not appear on such display panel if either:
(1) The warning statement appears on the outer packaging of the product or container, consistent with paragraph (b) of this section, and is clearly legible and conspicuous; or
(2) The warning statement is placed in a manner consistent with paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Outer packaging.
If the product or container is normally packaged, wrapped, or otherwise covered when viewed by the purchaser at the time of the purchase the warning statement described in § 82.106 shall appear on any outer packaging, wrapping or other covering used in the retail display of the product or container, such that the warning statement is clearly legible and conspicuous at the time of the purchase. If the outer packaging has a display panel that is normally viewed by the purchaser at the time of the purchase, the warning statement shall appear on such display panel. If the warning statement so appears on such product's or container's outer packaging, it need not appear on the surface of the product or container, as long as the statement also fulfills all other requirements of this subpart. The warning statement need not appear on such outer packaging if either:
(1) The warning statement appears on the surface of the product or container, consistent with paragraph (a) of this section, and is clearly legible and conspicuous through any outer packaging, wrapping or other covering used in display; or
(2) The warning statement is placed in a manner consistent with paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Alternative placement.
The warning statement may be placed on a hang tag, tape, card, sticker, invoice, bill of lading, supplemental printed material, or similar overlabeling that is securely attached to the container, product, outer packaging or display case, or accompanies the product containing or manufactured with a controlled substance or a container containing class I or class II substances through its sale to the consumer or ultimate consumer. For prescription medical products that have been found to be essential for patient health by the Food and Drug Administration, the warning statement may be placed in supplemental printed material intended to be read by the prescribing physician, as long as the following statement is placed on the product, its packaging, or supplemental printed material intended to be read by the patient: “This product contains [insert name of substance], a substance which harms the environment by depleting ozone in the upper atmosphere.” In any case, the warning statement must be clearly legible and conspicuous at the time of the purchase.
(d)
Products not viewed by the purchaser at the time of purchase.
Where the purchaser of a product cannot view a product, its packaging or alternative labeling such that the warning statement is clearly legible and conspicuous at the time of purchase, as specified under paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the warning statement may be placed in the following manner:
(1) Where promotional printed material is prepared for display or distribution, the warning statement may be placed on such promotional printed material such that it is clearly legible and conspicuous at the time of purchase; or
(2) The warning statement may be placed on the product, on its outer packaging, or on alternative labeling, consistent with paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section, such that the warning statement is clearly legible and conspicuous at the time of product delivery, if the product may be returned by the purchaser at or after the time of delivery or if the purchase is not complete until the time of delivery (e.g., products delivered C.O.D.).
§ 82.110
Form of label bearing warning statement.
(a)
Conspicuousness and contrast.
The warning statement shall appear in conspicuous and legible type by typography, layout, and color with other printed matter on the label. The warning statement shall appear in sharp contrast to any background upon which it appears. Examples of combinations of colors which may not satisfy the proposed requirement for sharp contrast are: black letters on a dark blue or dark green background, dark red letters on a light red background, light red letters on a reflective silver background, and white letters on a light gray or tan background.
(b)
Name of substance.
The name of the class I or class II substance to be inserted into the warning statement shall be the standard chemical name of the substance as listed in 40 CFR part 82, appendix A to subpart A, except that:
(1) The acronym “CFC” may be substituted for “chlorofluorocarbon.”
(2) The acronym “HCFC” may be substituted for “hydrochlorofluorocarbon.”
(3) The term “1,1,1-trichloroethane” may be substituted for “methyl chloroform.”
(c)
Combined statement for multiple controlled substances.
If a container containing or a product contains or is manufactured with, more than one class I or class II substance, the warning statement may include the names of all of the substances in a single warning statement, provided that the combined statement clearly distinguishes which substances the container or product contains and which were used in the manufacturing process.
(d)
Format.
(1) The warning statement shall be blocked within a square or rectangular area, with or without a border. (2) The warning statement shall appear in lines that are parallel to the surrounding text on the product's PDP, display panel, supplemental printed material or promotional printed material.
(e)
Type style.
The ratio of the height of a capital letter to its width shall be such that the height of the letter is no more than 3 times its width; the signal word “WARNING” shall appear in all capital letters.
(f)
Type size.
The warning statement shall appear at least as large as the type sizes prescribed by this paragraph. The type size refers to the height of the capital letters. A larger type size materially enhances the legibility of the statement and is desirable.
(1)
Display panel or outer packaging.
Minimum type size requirements for the warning statement are given in Table 1 to this paragraph and are based upon the area of the display panel of the product or container. Where the statement is on outer packaging, as well as the display panel area, the statement shall appear in the same minimum type size as on the display panel.
Table 1 to § 82.110(
f
)(1)
Area of display panel (sq. in.)
0-2
2-5
5-10
10-15
15-30
30
Type size (in.)
1
Signal word
3/64
1/16
3/32
7/64
1/8
5/32
Statement
3/64
3/64
1/16
3/32
3/32
7/64
Means greater than.
1
Minimum height of printed image of letters.
(2)
Alternative placement.
The minimum type size for the warning statement on any alternative placement which meets the requirements of § 82.108(c) is
3/32
inches for the signal word and
1/16
of an inch for the statement.
(3)
Promotional printed material.
The minimum type size for the warning statement on promotional printed material is
3/32
inches for the signal word and
1/16
of an inch for the statement, or
the type size of any surrounding text, whichever is larger.
[60 FR 4020, Jan. 19, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 64289, Oct. 28, 2014]
§ 82.112
Removal of label bearing warning statement.
(a)
Prohibition on removal.
Except as described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, any warning statement that accompanies a product or container introduced into interstate commerce, as required by this subpart, must remain with the product or container and any product incorporating such product or container, up to and including the point of sale to the ultimate consumer.
(b)
Incorporation of warning statement by subsequent manufacturers.
A manufacturer of a product that incorporates a product that is accompanied by a label bearing the warning statement may remove such label from the incorporated product if the information on such label is incorporated into a warning statement accompanying the manufacturer's product, or if, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the manufacturer of the product is not required to pass through the information contained on or incorporated in the product's label.
(c)
Manufacturers that incorporate products manufactured with controlled substances.
A manufacturer that incorporates into its own product a component product that was purchased from another manufacturer, was manufactured with a process that uses a controlled substance(s), but does not contain such substance(s), may remove such label from the incorporated product and need not apply a warning statement to its own product, if the manufacturer does not use a controlled substance in its own manufacturing process. A manufacturer that uses controlled substances in its own manufacturing process, and is otherwise subject to the regulations of this subpart, must label pursuant to § 82.106, but need not include information regrading the incorporated product on the required label.
(d)
Manufacturers, distributors, wholesalers, retailers that sell spare parts manufactured with controlled substances solely for repair.
Manufacturers, distributors, wholesalers, and retailers that purchase spare parts manufactured with a class I or class II substance from another manufacturer or supplier, and sell such spare parts for the sole purpose of repair, are not required to pass through an applicable warning label if such products are removed from the original packaging provided by the manufacturer from whom the products are purchased. Manufacturers of the spare parts manufactured with controlled substances must still label their products; furthermore, manufacturers, importers, and distributors of such products must pass through the labeling information as long as products remain assembled and packaged in the manner assembled and packaged by the original manufacturer. This exemption shall not apply if a spare part is later used for manufacture and/or for purposes other than repair.
[60 FR 4020, Jan. 19, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 64289, Oct. 28, 2014]
§ 82.114
Compliance by manufacturers and importers with requirements for labeling of containers of controlled substances, or products containing controlled substances.
(a)
Compliance by manufacturers and importers with requirements for labeling of containers of controlled substances, or products containing controlled substances.
Each manufacturer of a product incorporating another product or container containing a controlled substance, to which § 82.102 (a)(1), or, (a)(2) or (b)(1) applies, that is purchased or obtained from another manufacturer or supplier, is required to pass through and incorporate the labeling information that accompanies such incorporated product in a warning statement accompanying the manufacturer's finished product. Each importer of a product, or container containing a controlled substance, to which § 82.102 (a)(1), (a)(2), or (b)(1) applies, including a component product or container incorporated into the product, that is purchased from a foreign manufacturer or supplier, is required to apply a label, or to ensure that a label has been properly applied, at the site of U.S. Customs clearance.
(b)
Reliance on reasonable belief.
The manufacturer or importer of a product
that incorporates another product container from another manufacturer or supplier may rely on the labeling information (or lack thereof) that it receives with the product, and is not required to independently investigate whether the requirements of this subpart are applicable to such purchased product or container, as long as the manufacturer reasonably believes that the supplier or foreign manufacturer is reliably and accurately complying with the requirements of this subpart.
(c)
Contractual obligations.
A manufacturer's or importer's contractual relationship with its supplier under which the supplier is required to accurately label, consistent with the requirements of this subpart, any products containing a controlled substance or containers of a controlled substance that are supplied to the manufacturer or importer, is evidence of reasonable belief.
§ 82.116
Compliance by manufacturers or importers incorporating products manufactured with controlled substances.
(a)
Compliance by manufacturers or importers incorporating products manufactured with controlled substances, or importing products manufactured with controlled substances.
Each manufacturer or importer of a product incorporating another product to which § 82.102 (a)(3) or (b)(2) applies, that is purchased from another manufacturer or supplier, is not required to pass through and incorporate the labeling information that accompanies such incorporated product in a warning statement accompanying the manufacturer's or importer's finished product. Importers of products to which § 82.102 (a)(3) or (b)(2) applies are required to apply a label, or to ensure that a label has been properly applied at the site of U.S. Customs clearance.
(b)
Reliance on reasonable belief.
The importer of a product purchased or obtained from a foreign manufacturer or supplier, which product may have been manufactured with a controlled substance, may rely on the information that it receives with the purchased product, and is not required to independently investigate whether the requirements of this subpart are applicable to the purchased or obtained product, as long as the importer reasonably believes that there was no use of controlled substances by the final manufacturer of the product being imported.
(c)
Contractual obligations.
An importer's contractual relationship with its supplier under which the supplier is required to accurately label, consistent with the requirements of this subpart, any products manufactured with a controlled substance that are supplied to the importer, or to certify to the importer whether a product was or was not manufactured with a controlled substance is evidence of reasonable belief.
§ 82.118
Compliance by wholesalers, distributors and retailers.
(a)
Requirement of compliance by wholesalers, distributors and retailers.
All wholesalers, distributors and retailers of products or containers to which this subpart applies are required to pass through the labeling information that accompanies the product, except those purchasing from other manufacturers or suppliers spare parts manufactured with controlled substances and selling those parts for the demonstrable sole purpose of repair.
(b)
Reliance on reasonable belief.
The wholesaler, distributor or retailer of a product may rely on the labeling information that it receives with the product or container, and is not required to independently investigate whether the requirements of this subpart are applicable to the product or container, as long as the wholesaler, distributor or retailer reasonably believes that the supplier of the product or container is reliably and accurately complying with the requirements of this subpart.
(c)
Contractual obligations.
A wholesaler, distributor or retailer's contractual relationship with its supplier under which the supplier is required to accurately label, consistent with the requirements of this subpart, any products manufactured with a controlled substance that are supplied to the wholesaler, distributor or retailer is evidence of reasonable belief.
§ 82.120
Petitions.
(a)
Requirements for procedure and timing.
Persons seeking to apply the requirements of this regulation to a
product containing a class II substance or a product manufactured with a class I or a class II substance which is not otherwise subject to the requirements, or to temporarily exempt a product manufactured with a class I substance, based on a showing of a lack of currently or potentially available alternatives, from the requirements of this regulation may submit petitions to: Labeling Program Manager, Stratospheric Protection Division, Office of Atmospheric Programs, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 6202-J, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460. Such persons must label their products while such petitions are under review by the Agency.
(b)
Requirement for adequate data.
Any petition submitted under paragraph (a) of this section shall be accompanied by adequate data, as defined in § 82.120(c). If adequate data are not included by the petitioner, the Agency may return the petition and request specific additional information.
(c)
Adequate data.
A petition shall be considered by the Agency to be supported by adequate data if it includes all of the following:
(1) A part clearly labeled “Section I.A.” which contains the petitioner's full name, company or organization name, address and telephone number, the product that is the subject of the petition, and, in the case of a petition to temporarily exempt a product manufactured with a class I substance from the labeling requirement, the manufacturer or manufacturers of that product.
(2) For petitions to temporarily exempt a product manufactured with a class I substance only, a part clearly labeled “Section I.A.T.” which states the length of time for which an exemption is requested.
(3) A part clearly labeled “Section I.B.” which includes the following statement, signed by the petitioner or an authorized representative:
“I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted in this petition and all attached documents, and that, based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information.”
(4) A part clearly labeled “Section I.C.” which fully explains the basis for the petitioner's request that EPA add the labeling requirements to or remove them from the product which is the subject of the petition, based specifically upon the technical facility or laboratory tests, literature, or economic analysis described in paragraphs (c) (5), (6) and (7) of this section.
(5) A part clearly labeled “Section II.A.” which fully describes any technical facility or laboratory tests used to support the petitioner's claim.
(6) A part clearly labeled “Section II.B.” which fully explains any values taken from literature or estimated on the basis of known information that are used to support the petitioner's claim.
(7) A part clearly labeled “Section II.C.” which fully explains any economic analysis used to support the petitioner's claim.
(d)
Criteria for evaluating petitions.
Adequate data in support of any petition to the Agency to add a product to the labeling requirement or temporarily remove a product from the labeling requirement will be evaluated based upon a showing of sufficient quality and scope by the petitioner of whether there are or are not substitute products or manufacturing processes for such product:
(1) That do not rely on the use of such class I or class II substance;
(2) That reduce the overall risk to human health and the environment; and
(3) That are currently or potentially available.
(e)
Procedure for acceptance or denial of petition.
(1) If a petition submitted under this section contains adequate data, as defined under paragraph (c) of this section, the Agency shall within 180 days after receiving the complete petition either accept the petition or deny the petition.
(2) If the Agency makes a decision to accept a petition to apply the requirements of this regulation to a product containing or manufactured with a
class II substance, the Agency will notify the petitioner and publish a proposed rule in the
Federal Register
to apply the labeling requirements to the product.
(3) If the Agency makes a decision to deny a petition to apply the requirements of this regulation to a product containing or manufactured with a class II substance, the Agency will notify the petitioner and publish an explanation of the petition denial in the
Federal Register.
(4) If the Agency makes a decision to accept a petition to temporarily exempt a product manufactured with a class I substance from the requirements of this regulation, the Agency will notify the petitioner and publish a proposed rule in the
Federal Register
to temporarily exempt the product from the labeling requirements. Upon notification by the Agency, such manufacturer may immediately cease its labeling process for such exempted products.
(5) If the Agency makes a decision to deny a petition to temporarily exempt a product manufactured with a class I substance from the requirements of this regulation, the Agency will notify the petitioner and may, in appropriate circumstances, publish an explanation of the petition denial in the
Federal Register.
§ 82.122
Certification, recordkeeping, and notice requirements.
(a)
Certification.
(1) Persons claiming the exemption provided in § 82.106(b)(4) must submit a written certification to the following address: Labeling Program Manager, Stratospheric Protection Division, Office of Atmospheric Programs, 6205-T, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington DC 20460.
(2) The certification must contain the following information:
(i) The exact location of documents verifying calendar year 1990 usage and the 95% reduced usage during a twelve month period;
(ii) A description of the records maintained at that location;
(iii) A description of the type of system used to track usage;
(iv) An indication of which 12 month period reflects the 95% reduced usage, and;
(v) Name, address, and telephone number of a contact person.
(3) Persons who submit certifications postmarked on or before May 15, 1993, need not place warning labels on their products manufactured using CFC-113 or methyl chloroform as a solvent. Persons who submit certifications postmarked after May 15, 1993, must label their products manufactured using CFC-113 or methyl chloroform as a solvent for 14 days following such submittal of the certification.
(4) Persons certifying must also include a statement that indicates their future annual use will at no time exceed 5% of their 1990 usage.
(5) Certifications must be signed by the owner or a responsible corporate officer.
(6) If the Administrator determines that a person's certification is incomplete or that information supporting the exemption is inadequate, then products manufactured using CFC-113 or methyl chloroform as a solvent by such person must be labeled pursuant to § 82.106(a).
(b)
Recordkeeping.
Persons claiming the exemption under section 82.106(b)(2) must retain supporting documentation at one of their facilities.
(c)
Notice Requirements.
Persons who claim an exemption under § 82.106(b)(2) must submit a notice to the address in paragraph (a)(1) of this section within 30 days of the end of any 12 month period in which their usage of CFC-113 or methyl chloroform used as a solvent exceeds the 95% reduction from calendar year 1990.
[60 FR 4020, Jan. 19, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 64289, Oct. 28, 2014]
§ 82.124
Prohibitions.
(a)
Warning statement
—(1)
Absence or presence of warning statement.
(i) Applicable May 15, 1993, except as indicated in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, no container or product identified in § 82.102(a) may be introduced into interstate commerce unless it bears a warning statement that complies with the requirements of § 82.106(a) of this subpart, unless such labeling is not required under § 82.102(c), § 82.106(b), § 82.112 (c) or (d), § 82.116(a), § 82.118(a), or temporarily exempted pursuant to § 82.120.
(ii) On January 1, 2015, or any time between May 15, 1993 and January 1, 2015 that the Administrator determines for a particular product manufactured with or containing a class II substance that there are substitute products or manufacturing processes for such product that do not rely on the use of a class I or class II substance, that reduce the overall risk to human health and the environment, and that are currently or potentially available, no product identified in § 82.102(b) may be introduced into interstate commerce unless it bears a warning statement that complies with the requirements of § 82.106, unless such labeling is not required under § 82.106(b), § 82.112 (c) or (d), § 82.116(a) or § 82.118(a).
(2)
Placement of warning statement.
(i) On May 15, 1993, except as indicated in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, no container or product identified in § 82.102(a) may be introduced into interstate commerce unless it bears a warning statement that complies with the requirements of § 82.108 of this subpart, unless such labeling is not required under § 82.102(c), § 82.106(b), § 82.112 (c) or (d), § 82.116(a), § 82.118(a), or temporarily exempted pursuant to § 82.120.
(ii) On January 1, 2015, or any time between May 15, 1993 and January 1, 2015 that the Administrator determines for a particular product manufactured with or containing a class II substance that there are substitute products or manufacturing processes for such product that do not rely on the use of a class I or class II substance, that reduce the overall risk to human health and the environment, and that are currently or potentially available, no product identified in § 82.102(b) may be introduced into interstate commerce unless it bears a warning statement that complies with the requirements of § 82.108 of this subpart, unless such labeling is not required under § 82.106(b), § 82.112 (c) or (d), § 82.116(a) or § 82.118(a).
(3)
Form of label bearing warning statement.
(i) Applicable May 15, 1993, except as indicated in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, no container or product identified in § 82.102(a) may be introduced into interstate commerce unless it bears a warning statement that complies with the requirements of § 82.110, unless such labeling is not required pursuant to § 82.102(c), § 82.106(b), § 82.112 (c) or (d), § 82.116(a), § 82.118(a), or temporarily exempted pursuant to § 82.120.
(ii) On January 1, 2015, or any time between May 15, 1993 and January 1, 2015 that the Agency determines for a particular product manufactured with or containing a class II substance, that there are substitute products or manufacturing processes that do not rely on the use of a class I or class II substance, that reduce the overall risk to human health and the environment, and that are currently or potentially available, no product identified in § 82.102(b) may be introduced into interstate commerce unless it bears a warning statement that complies with the requirements of § 82.110, unless such labeling is not required pursuant to § 82.106(b), § 82.112 (c) or (d), § 82.116(a), or § 82.118(a).
(4) On or after May 15, 1993, no person may modify, remove or interfere with any warning statement required by this subpart, except as described in § 82.112.
(5) In the case of any substance designated as a class I or class II substance after February 11, 1993, the prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3)(i) of this section shall be applicable one year after the designation of such substance as a class I or class II substance unless otherwise specified in the designation.

# Subpart F—Recycling and Emissions Reduction

# Source:
58 FR 28712, May 14, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 82.150
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to reduce emissions of class I and class II refrigerants and their non-exempt substitutes to the lowest achievable level by maximizing the recapture and recycling of such refrigerants during the maintenance, service, repair, and disposal of appliances and restricting the sale of refrigerants consisting in whole or in part of a class I or class II ozone-depleting substance or their non-exempt substitutes in accordance with Title VI of the Clean Air Act.
(b) This subpart applies to any person maintaining, servicing, or repairing appliances containing class I, class II or non-exempt substitute refrigerants. This subpart also applies to persons disposing of such appliances (including small appliances and motor vehicle air conditioners), refrigerant reclaimers, technician certifying programs, appliance owners and operators, manufacturers of appliances, manufacturers of recovery and/or recycling equipment, approved recovery and/or recycling equipment testing organizations, and persons buying, selling, or offering to sell class I, class II, or non-exempt substitute refrigerants.
[81 FR 82349, Nov. 11, 2016]
§ 82.152
Definitions.
Appliance
means any device which contains and uses a class I or class II substance or substitute as a refrigerant and which is used for household or commercial purposes, including any air conditioner, motor vehicle air conditioner, refrigerator, chiller, or freezer. For a system with multiple circuits, each independent circuit is considered a separate appliance.
Apprentice
means any person who is currently registered as an apprentice in maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances with the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship (or a State Apprenticeship Council recognized by the Office of Apprenticeship). A person may only be an apprentice for two years from the date of first registering with that office.
Approved equipment testing organization
means any organization which has applied for and received approval from the Administrator pursuant to § 82.160.
Batch
means a single bulk cylinder of refrigerant after all reclamation has been completed prior to packaging or shipping to the market.
Class I
refers to an ozone-depleting substance that is listed in 40 CFR part 82 subpart A, appendix A.
Class II
refers to an ozone-depleting substance that is listed in 40 CFR part 82 subpart A, appendix B.
Certified refrigerant recovery or recycling equipment
means equipment manufactured before November 15, 1993, that meets the standards in § 82.158(c), (e), or (g); equipment certified by an approved equipment testing organization to meet the standards in § 82.158(b), (d), or (f); or equipment certified pursuant to § 82.36(a).
Comfort cooling
means the air-conditioning appliances used to provide cooling in order to control heat and/or humidity in occupied facilities including but not limited to residential, office, and commercial buildings. Comfort cooling appliances include but are not limited to chillers, commercial split systems, and packaged roof-top units.
Commercial refrigeration
means the refrigeration appliances used in the retail food and cold storage warehouse sectors. Retail food appliances include the refrigeration equipment found in supermarkets, convenience stores, restaurants and other food service establishments. Cold storage includes the refrigeration equipment used to store meat, produce, dairy products, and other perishable goods.
Component
means a part of the refrigerant circuit within an appliance including, but not limited to, compressors, condensers, evaporators, receivers, and all of its connections and subassemblies.
Custom-built
means that the industrial process equipment or any of its components cannot be purchased and/or installed without being uniquely designed, fabricated and/or assembled to satisfy a specific set of industrial process conditions.
Disposal
means the process leading to and including:
(1) The discharge, deposit, dumping or placing of any discarded appliance into or on any land or water;
(2) The disassembly of any appliance for discharge, deposit, dumping or placing of its discarded component parts into or on any land or water;
(3) The vandalism of any appliance such that the refrigerant is released into the environment or would be released into the environment if it had not been recovered prior to the destructive activity;
(4) The disassembly of any appliance for reuse of its component parts; or
(5) The recycling of any appliance for scrap.
Follow-up verification test
means those tests that involve checking the repairs
to an appliance after a successful initial verification test and after the appliance has returned to normal operating characteristics and conditions to verify that the repairs were successful. Potential methods for follow-up verification tests include, but are not limited to, the use of soap bubbles as appropriate, electronic or ultrasonic leak detectors, pressure or vacuum tests, fluorescent dye and black light, infrared or near infrared tests, and handheld gas detection devices.
Full charge
means the amount of refrigerant required for normal operating characteristics and conditions of the appliance as determined by using one or a combination of the following four methods:
(1) Use of the equipment manufacturer's determination of the full charge;
(2) Use of appropriate calculations based on component sizes, density of refrigerant, volume of piping, and other relevant considerations;
(3) Use of actual measurements of the amount of refrigerant added to or evacuated from the appliance, including for seasonal variances; and/or
(4) Use of an established range based on the best available data regarding the normal operating characteristics and conditions for the appliance, where the midpoint of the range will serve as the full charge.
High-pressure appliance
means an appliance that uses a refrigerant with a liquid phase saturation pressure between 170 psia and 355 psia at 104 °F. Examples include but are not limited to appliances using R-22, R-407A, R-407C, R-410A, and R-502.
Industrial process refrigeration
means complex customized appliances that are directly linked to the processes used in, for example, the chemical, pharmaceutical, petrochemical, and manufacturing industries. This sector also includes industrial ice machines, appliances used directly in the generation of electricity, and ice rinks. Where one appliance is used for both industrial process refrigeration and other applications, it will be considered industrial process refrigeration equipment if 50 percent or more of its operating capacity is used for industrial process refrigeration.
Industrial process shutdown
means when an industrial process or facility temporarily ceases to operate or manufacture whatever is being produced at that facility.
Initial verification test
means those leak tests that are conducted after the repair is finished to verify that a leak or leaks have been repaired before refrigerant is added back to the appliance.
Leak inspection
means the examination of an appliance to determine the location of refrigerant leaks. Potential methods include, but are not limited to, ultrasonic tests, gas-imaging cameras, bubble tests as appropriate, or the use of a leak detection device operated and maintained according to manufacturer guidelines. Methods that determine whether the appliance is leaking refrigerant but not the location of a leak, such as standing pressure/vacuum decay tests, sight glass checks, viewing receiver levels, pressure checks, and charging charts, must be used in conjunction with methods that can determine the location of a leak.
Leak rate
means the rate at which an appliance is losing refrigerant, measured between refrigerant charges. The leak rate is expressed in terms of the percentage of the appliance's full charge that would be lost over a 12-month period if the current rate of loss were to continue over that period. The rate must be calculated using one of the following methods. The same method must be used for all appliances subject to the leak repair requirements located at an operating facility.
(1)
Annualizing Method
—(i)
Step 1.
Take the number of pounds of refrigerant added to the appliance to return it to a full charge, whether in one addition or if multiple additions related to same leak, and divide it by the number of pounds of refrigerant the appliance normally contains at full charge;
(ii)
Step 2.
Take the shorter of the number of days that have passed since the last day refrigerant was added or 365 days and divide that number by 365 days;
(iii)
Step 3.
Take the number calculated in Step 1 and divide it by the number calculated in Step 2; and
(iv)
Step 4.
Multiply the number calculated in Step 3 by 100 to calculate a
percentage. This method is summarized in the following formula:
ER18NO16.074
(2)
Rolling Average Method
—(i)
Step 1.
Take the sum of the pounds of refrigerant added to the appliance over the previous 365-day period (or over the period that has passed since the last successful follow-up verification test showing all identified leaks in the appliance were repaired, if that period is less than one year);
(ii)
Step 2.
Divide the result of Step 1 by the pounds of refrigerant the appliance normally contains at full charge; and
(iii)
Step 3.
Multiply the result of Step 2 by 100 to obtain a percentage. This method is summarized in the following formula:
ER18NO16.075
Low-loss fitting
means any device that is intended to establish a connection between hoses, appliances, or recovery and/or recycling machines and that is designed to close automatically or to be closed manually when disconnected, minimizing the release of refrigerant from hoses, appliances, and recovery and/or recycling machines.
Low-pressure appliance
means an appliance that uses a refrigerant with a liquid phase saturation pressure below 45 psia at 104 °F. Examples include but are not limited to appliances using R-11, R-123, R-113, and R-245fa.
Major maintenance, service, or repair
means any maintenance, service, or repair that involves the removal of any or all of the following appliance components: compressor, condenser, evaporator, or auxiliary heat exchange coil; or any maintenance, service, or repair that involves uncovering an opening of more than four (4) square inches of “flow area” for more than 15 minutes.
Medium-pressure appliance
means an appliance that uses a refrigerant with a liquid phase saturation pressure between 45 psia and 170 psia at 104 °F. Examples include but are not limited to appliances using R-114, R-124, R-12, R-134a, and R-500.
Mothball
means to evacuate refrigerant from an appliance, or the affected isolated section or component of an appliance, to at least atmospheric pressure, and to temporarily shut down that appliance.
Motor vehicle air conditioner (MVAC)
means any appliance that is a motor vehicle air conditioner as defined in 40 CFR part 82, subpart B.
MVAC-like appliance
means a mechanical vapor compression, open-drive compressor appliance with a full charge of 20 pounds or less of refrigerant used to cool the driver's or passenger's compartment of off-road vehicles or equipment. This includes, but is not limited to, the air-conditioning equipment found on agricultural or construction vehicles. This definition is not intended to cover appliances using R-22 refrigerant.
Normal operating characteristics and conditions
means appliance operating temperatures, pressures, fluid flows,
speeds, and other characteristics, including full charge of the appliance, that would be expected for a given process load and ambient condition during normal operation. Normal operating characteristics and conditions are marked by the absence of atypical conditions affecting the operation of the appliance.
One-time expansion device
means an appliance that relies on the release of its refrigerant charge to the environment in order to provide a cooling effect. These are typically single releases but could also include products that are designed to release refrigerant to the environment through multiple individual charges.
Opening an appliance
means any maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of an appliance that would release any refrigerant in the appliance to the atmosphere. Connecting and disconnecting hoses and gauges to measure pressures, add refrigerant, or recover refrigerant from the appliance are not considered “opening an appliance.”
Parent company
means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint-stock company, or an unincorporated organization that can direct or cause the direction of management and policies of another entity, through the ownership of shares or otherwise.
Person
means any individual or legal entity, including an individual, corporation, partnership, association, state, municipality, political subdivision of a state, Indian tribe, and any agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States, and any officer, agent, or employee thereof.
Process stub
means a length of tubing that provides access to the refrigerant inside a small appliance or room air conditioner and that can be resealed at the conclusion of repair or service.
Reclaim
means to reprocess recovered refrigerant to all of the specifications in appendix A of this subpart (based on AHRI Standard 700-2016,
Specifications for Refrigerants
) that are applicable to that refrigerant and to verify that the refrigerant meets these specifications using the analytical methodology prescribed in section 5 of appendix A of this subpart.
Recover
means to remove refrigerant in any condition from an appliance and to store it in an external container without necessarily testing or processing it in any way.
Recovery efficiency
means the percentage of refrigerant in an appliance that is recovered by a piece of recovery and/or recycling equipment.
Recycle,
when referring to refrigerant, means to extract refrigerant from an appliance (except MVACs) and clean it for reuse in equipment of the same owner without meeting all of the requirements for reclamation. In general, recycled refrigerant is cleaned using oil separation and single or multiple passes through devices, such as replaceable core filter-driers, which reduce moisture, acidity, and particulate matter.
Refrigerant
means, for purposes of this subpart, any substance, including blends and mixtures, consisting in part or whole of a class I or class II ozone-depleting substance or substitute that is used for heat transfer purposes and provides a cooling effect.
Refrigerant circuit
means the parts of an appliance that are normally connected to each other (or are separated only by internal valves) and are designed to contain refrigerant.
Retire,
when referring to an appliance, means the removal of the refrigerant and the disassembly or impairment of the refrigerant circuit such that the appliance as a whole is rendered unusable by any person in the future.
Retrofit
means to convert an appliance from one refrigerant to another refrigerant. Retrofitting includes the conversion of the appliance to achieve system compatibility with the new refrigerant and may include, but is not limited to, changes in lubricants, gaskets, filters, driers, valves, o-rings or appliance components.
Seasonal variance
means the removal of refrigerant from an appliance due to a change in ambient conditions caused by a change in season, followed by the subsequent addition of an amount that is less than or equal to the amount of refrigerant removed in the prior
change in season, where both the removal and addition of refrigerant occurs within one consecutive 12-month period.
Self-contained recovery equipment
means refrigerant recovery and/or recycling equipment that is capable of removing the refrigerant from an appliance without the assistance of components contained in the appliance.
Self-sealing valve
means a valve affixed to a container of refrigerant that automatically seals when not dispensing refrigerant and meets or exceeds established performance criteria as identified in § 82.154(c)(2).
Small appliance
means any appliance that is fully manufactured, charged, and hermetically sealed in a factory with five (5) pounds or less of refrigerant, including, but not limited to, refrigerators and freezers (designed for home, commercial, or consumer use), medical or industrial research refrigeration equipment, room air conditioners (including window air conditioners, portable air conditioners, and packaged terminal air heat pumps), dehumidifiers, under-the-counter ice makers, vending machines, and drinking water coolers.
Substitute
means any chemical or product, whether existing or new, that is used as a refrigerant to replace a class I or II ozone-depleting substance. Examples include, but are not limited to hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, hydrofluoroolefins, hydrofluoroethers, hydrocarbons, ammonia, carbon dioxide, and blends thereof. As used in this subpart, the term “exempt substitutes” refers to certain substitutes when used in certain end-uses that are specified in § 82.154(a)(1) as exempt from the venting prohibition and the requirements of this subpart, and the term “non-exempt substitutes” refers to all other substitutes and end-uses not so specified in § 82.154(a)(1).
System-dependent recovery equipment
means refrigerant recovery equipment that requires the assistance of components contained in an appliance to remove the refrigerant from the appliance.
System receiver
means the isolated portion of the appliance, or a specific vessel within the appliance, that is used to hold the refrigerant charge during the servicing or repair of that appliance.
Technician
means any person who in the course of maintenance, service, or repair of an appliance (except MVACs) could be reasonably expected to violate the integrity of the refrigerant circuit and therefore release refrigerants into the environment. Technician also means any person who in the course of disposal of an appliance (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) could be reasonably expected to violate the integrity of the refrigerant circuit and therefore release refrigerants from the appliances into the environment. Activities reasonably expected to violate the integrity of the refrigerant circuit include but are not limited to: Attaching or detaching hoses and gauges to and from the appliance; adding or removing refrigerant; adding or removing components; and cutting the refrigerant line. Activities such as painting the appliance, rewiring an external electrical circuit, replacing insulation on a length of pipe, or tightening nuts and bolts are not reasonably expected to violate the integrity of the refrigerant circuit. Activities conducted on appliances that have been properly evacuated pursuant to § 82.156 are not reasonably expected to release refrigerants unless the activity includes adding refrigerant to the appliance. Technicians could include but are not limited to installers, contractor employees, in-house service personnel, and owners and/or operators of appliances.
Very high-pressure appliance
means an appliance that uses a refrigerant with a critical temperature below 104 °F or with a liquid phase saturation pressure above 355 psia at 104 °F. Examples include but are not limited to appliances using R-13, R-23, R-503, R-508A, and R-508B.
[58 FR 28712, May 14, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 42956, Aug. 19, 1994; 59 FR 55925, Nov. 9, 1994; 60 FR 40439, Aug. 8, 1995; 68 FR 43806, July 24, 2003; 69 FR 11978, Mar. 12, 2004; 70 FR 1991, Jan. 11, 2005; 70 FR 19278, Apr. 13, 2005; 81 FR 82349, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 82.154
Prohibitions.
(a)
Venting prohibition.
(1) No person maintaining, servicing, repairing, or
disposing of an appliance or industrial process refrigeration may knowingly vent or otherwise release into the environment any refrigerant from such appliances. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, the following substitutes in the following end-uses are exempt from this prohibition and from the requirements of this subpart:
(i) Carbon dioxide in any application;
(ii) Nitrogen in any application;
(iii) Water in any application;
(iv) Ammonia in commercial or industrial process refrigeration or in absorption units;
(v) Chlorine in industrial process refrigeration (processing of chlorine and chlorine compounds);
(vi) Hydrocarbons in industrial process refrigeration (processing of hydrocarbons);
(vii) Ethane (R-170) in very low temperature refrigeration equipment and equipment for non-mechanical heat transfer;
(viii) Propane (R-290) in retail food refrigerators and freezers—stand-alone units; household refrigerators, freezers, and combination refrigerators and freezers; self-contained room air conditioners for residential and light commercial air-conditioning and heat pumps; vending machines; self-contained commercial ice machines, very low temperature refrigeration equipment, and water coolers; and effective July 15, 2024, retail food refrigeration—refrigerated food processing and dispensing equipment;
(ix) Isobutane (R-600a) in retail food refrigerators and freezers (stand-alone units only); household refrigerators, freezers, and combination refrigerators and freezers; and vending machines;
(x) R-441A in retail food refrigerators and freezers (stand-alone units only); household refrigerators, freezers, and combination refrigerators and freezers; self-contained room air conditioners for residential and light commercial air-conditioning; heat pumps; and vending machines.
(2)
De minimis
releases associated with good faith attempts to recycle or recover refrigerants are not subject to this prohibition. Except for exempt substitutes, refrigerant releases are
de minimis
only if they occur when:
(i) The applicable practices in §§ 82.155 and 82.156 are observed, the applicable practices in § 82.157 are observed for appliances that contain any class I or class II refrigerant or blend containing a class I or class II refrigerant, recovery and/or recycling machines that meet the requirements in § 82.158 are used whenever refrigerant is removed from an appliance, the technician certification provisions in § 82.161 are observed, and the reclamation requirements in § 82.164 are observed; or
(ii) The requirements in subpart B of this part are observed.
(3) The knowing release of a class I or class II refrigerant or a non-exempt substitute refrigerant after its recovery from an appliance is a violation of the venting prohibition.
(b) No person may maintain, service, repair, or dispose of an appliance containing a class I or class II refrigerant or a non-exempt substitute refrigerant without:
(1) Observing the applicable practices in §§ 82.155, 82.156, and 82.157; and
(2) Using recovery and/or recycling equipment that is certified for that type of refrigerant and appliance under § 82.158.
(c)
Sales restriction.
(1) No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, any substance that consists in whole or in part of a class I or class II substance or, starting on January 1, 2018, any non-exempt substitute for use as a refrigerant unless:
(i) The buyer has been certified as a Type I, Type II, Type III, or Universal technician under § 82.161;
(ii) The buyer employs at least one technician who is certified as a Type I, Type II, Type III, or Universal technician under § 82.161 and provides proof of such to the seller;
(iii) The buyer has been certified in accordance with 40 CFR part 82, subpart B and the refrigerant is acceptable for use in MVACs under 40 CFR part 82, subpart G;
(iv) The buyer employs at least one person who is certified under 40 CFR part 82, subpart B, and provides proof of such to the seller and the refrigerant is acceptable for use in MVACs under 40 CFR part 82, subpart G. Nothing in this provision relieves persons of the requirements of § 82.34(b) or § 82.42(b);
(v) The refrigerant is sold only for eventual resale to persons certified under § 82.161 or 40 CFR part 82, subpart B or to appliance manufacturers (
e.g.,
sold by a manufacturer to a wholesaler, sold by a technician to a reclaimer);
(vi) The refrigerant is sold to an appliance manufacturer;
(vii) The refrigerant is contained in an appliance with a fully assembled refrigerant circuit or an appliance component;
(viii) The refrigerant is charged into an appliance by a certified technician or an apprentice during maintenance, service, or repair of the appliance; or
(ix) The non-exempt substitute refrigerant is intended for use in an MVAC and is sold in a container designed to hold two pounds or less of refrigerant, has a unique fitting, and, if manufactured or imported on or after January 1, 2018, has a self-sealing valve that complies with the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2)
Self-sealing valve specifications.
This provision applies starting January 1, 2018, for all containers holding two pounds or less of non-exempt substitute refrigerant for use in an MVAC that are manufactured or imported on or after that date.
(i) Each container holding two pounds or less of non-exempt substitute refrigerant for use in an MVAC must be equipped with a single self-sealing valve that automatically closes and seals when not dispensing refrigerant.
(ii) The leakage rate from each container must not exceed 3.00 grams per year when the self-sealing valve is closed. This leakage rate applies to new, full containers as well as containers that may be partially full.
(iii) The leakage rate must be determined using the standards described in appendix E (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
(iv) All testing to demonstrate compliance with this paragraph must be conducted by an independent test laboratory in the United States. For purposes of this requirement, an independent test laboratory is one that is not owned, operated, or affiliated with the applicant certifying equipment and/or products.
(3)
Recordkeeping.
(i) Persons who sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, any class I or class II refrigerant, or, starting on January 1, 2018, any non-exempt substitute refrigerant must keep invoices that indicate the name of the purchaser, the date of sale, and the quantity of refrigerant purchased unless they are selling exempt substitutes (those substitutes used in the end-uses specified as exempt in paragraph (a)(1) of this section) or small cans of MVAC refrigerant in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(ix) of this section. In instances where the buyer employs a person certified under § 82.161 or 40 CFR part 82, subpart B, the seller must keep the documentation provided by the buyer to demonstrate such employment. All records must be kept for three years.
(ii) Electronic or paper copies of all records described in appendix E must be maintained by manufacturers of containers holding two pounds or less of non-exempt substitute refrigerant for use in an MVAC to verify self-sealing valves meet the requirements specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. All records must be kept for three years after each purchase.
(d)
Sale of used refrigerant.
No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, for use as a refrigerant any class I or class II substance or non-exempt substitute consisting wholly or in part of used refrigerant unless the refrigerant:
(1) Has been reclaimed by a person who has been certified as a reclaimer under § 82.164;
(2) was used only in an MVAC or MVAC-like appliance and is to be used only in an MVAC or MVAC-like appliance and recycled in accordance with 40 CFR part 82, subpart B;
(3) is contained in an appliance that is sold or offered for sale together with a fully assembled refrigerant circuit;
(4) is being transferred between or among a parent company and one or more of its subsidiaries, or between or among subsidiaries having the same parent company; or
(5) is being transferred between or among a Federal agency or department and a facility or facilities owned by the same Federal agency or department.
(e)
Manufacture and sale of appliances.
(1) No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, any appliance (except small appliances and appliances containing only refrigerants that have been exempted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section) unless it is equipped with a servicing aperture to facilitate the removal of refrigerant at servicing and disposal.
(2) No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, any small appliance (except appliances containing only refrigerants that have been exempted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section) unless it is equipped with a process stub to facilitate the removal of refrigerant at servicing and disposal.
(f)
One-time expansion devices.
No person may manufacture or import a one-time expansion device unless the only refrigerants it contains have been exempted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(g) Rules stayed for consideration. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subpart, the effectiveness of 40 CFR 82.154(c), only as it applies to refrigerant contained in appliances without fully assembled refrigerant circuits, is stayed from April 27, 1995, until EPA takes final action on its reconsideration of these provisions. EPA will publish any such final action in the
Federal Register
.
[81 FR 82352, Nov. 18, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 86881, Dec. 1, 2016; 82 FR 61184, Dec. 27, 2017; 85 FR 14171, Apr. 10, 2020; 89 FR 50463, June 13, 2024]
§ 82.155
Safe disposal of appliances.
Until January 1, 2018, this section applies only to disposal of appliances containing class I and class II refrigerants. Starting on January 1, 2018, this section applies to disposal of appliances containing any class I or class II refrigerant or any non-exempt substitute refrigerant.
(a) Persons recovering refrigerant from a small appliance, MVAC, or MVAC-like appliance for purposes of disposal of these appliances must evacuate refrigerant to the levels in § 82.156(b) through (d) using recovery equipment that meets the standards in § 82.158(e) through (g), or 40 CFR part 82 subpart B, as applicable.
(b) The final processor—
i.e.,
persons who take the final step in the disposal process (including but not limited to scrap recyclers and landfill operators) of a small appliance, MVAC, or MVAC-like appliance—must either:
(1) Recover any remaining refrigerant from the appliance in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) Verify using a signed statement or a contract that all refrigerant that had not leaked previously has been recovered from the appliance or shipment of appliances in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. If using a signed statement, it must include the name and address of the person who recovered the refrigerant and the date the refrigerant was recovered. If using a signed contract between the supplier and the final processor, it must either state that the supplier will recover any remaining refrigerant from the appliance or shipment of appliances in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section prior to delivery or verify that the refrigerant had been properly recovered prior to receipt by the supplier.
(i) It is a violation of this subpart to accept a signed statement or contract if the person receiving the statement or contract knew or had reason to know that the signed statement or contract is false.
(ii) The final processor must notify suppliers of appliances that refrigerant must be properly recovered in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section before delivery of the items to the facility. The form of this notification may be signs, letters to suppliers, or other equivalent means.
(iii) If all the refrigerant has leaked out of the appliance, the final processor must obtain a signed statement that all the refrigerant in the appliance had leaked out prior to delivery to the final processor and recovery is not possible. “Leaked out” in this context means those situations in which the refrigerant has escaped because of system failures, accidents, or other unavoidable occurrences not caused by a person's negligence or deliberate acts such as cutting refrigerant lines.
(c)
Recordkeeping.
The final processor of a small appliance, MVAC, or MVAC-like appliance must keep a copy of all
the signed statements or contracts obtained under paragraph (b)(2) of this section on site, in hard copy or in electronic format, for three years.
[81 FR 82353, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 82.156
Proper evacuation of refrigerant from appliances.
Until January 1, 2018, this section applies only to evacuation of refrigerant from appliances containing class I or class II refrigerants. Starting on January 1, 2018, this section applies to evacuation of refrigerant from appliances containing any class I or class II refrigerant or any non-exempt substitute refrigerant, excluding paragraph (i) of this section which applies only to appliances containing class I or class II refrigerants until January 1, 2019. Starting January 1, 2019, the provisions in § 82.157 apply in lieu of paragraph (i) of this section.
(a)
Appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances).
Before opening appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) or disposing of such appliances, technicians must evacuate the refrigerant, including all the liquid refrigerant, to the levels in Table 1 using a recovery and/or recycling machine certified pursuant to § 82.158 unless the situations in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section apply. Technicians may evacuate either the entire appliance or the part to be serviced, if the refrigerant in the part can be isolated to a system receiver. A technician must verify that the applicable level of evacuation has been reached in the appliance or the part before it is opened.
(1) If evacuation of the appliance to the atmosphere is not to be performed after completion of the maintenance, service, or repair, and if the maintenance, service, or repair is not major as defined at § 82.152, the appliance must:
(i) Be evacuated to a pressure no higher than 0 psig before it is opened if it is a medium-, high- or very high-pressure appliance;
(ii) Be pressurized to a pressure no higher than 0 psig before it is opened if it is a low-pressure appliance. Persons must cover openings when isolation is not possible. Persons pressurizing low-pressure appliances that use refrigerants with boiling points at or below 85 degrees Fahrenheit at 29.9 inches of mercury (standard atmospheric pressure), must not use methods such as nitrogen that require subsequent purging. Persons pressurizing low-pressure appliances that use refrigerants with boiling points above 85 degrees Fahrenheit at 29.9 inches of mercury, must use heat to raise the internal pressure of the appliance as much as possible, but may use nitrogen to raise the internal pressure of the appliance from the level attainable through use of heat to atmospheric pressure; or
(iii) For the purposes of oil changes, be evacuated or pressurized to a pressure no higher than 5 psig, before it is opened; or drain the oil into a system receiver to be evacuated or pressurized to a pressure no higher than 5 psig.
(2) If leaks in the appliance make evacuation to the levels in Table 1 unattainable or would substantially contaminate the refrigerant being recovered, persons opening or disposing of the appliance must:
(i) Isolate leaking from non-leaking components wherever possible;
(ii) Evacuate non-leaking components to be opened or disposed of to the levels specified in Table 1; and
(iii) Evacuate leaking components to be opened or disposed of to the lowest level that can be attained without substantially contaminating the refrigerant. This level may not exceed 0 psig.
(3)
Recordkeeping.
As of January 1, 2018, technicians evacuating refrigerant from appliances with a full charge of more than 5 and less than 50 pounds of refrigerant for purposes of disposal of that appliance must keep records documenting the following for three years:
(i) The company name, location of the appliance, date of recovery, and type of refrigerant recovered for each appliance;
(ii) The total quantity of refrigerant, by type, recovered from all disposed appliances in each calendar month; and
(iii) The quantity of refrigerant, by type, transferred for reclamation and/or destruction, the person to whom it was transferred, and the date of transfer.
Table 1—Required Levels of Evacuation for Appliances
[Except for small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances]
Type of appliance
Inches of Hg vacuum
(relative to standard atmospheric pressure of 29.9 inches Hg)
Using recovery and/or recycling equipment manufactured or
imported before
November 15, 1993
Using recovery and/or recycling equipment manufactured or
imported on or after
November 15, 1993
Very high-pressure appliance
0
0.
High-pressure appliance, or isolated component of such appliance, with a full charge of less than 200 pounds of refrigerant
0
0.
High-pressure appliance, or isolated component of such appliance, with a full charge of 200 pounds or more of refrigerant
4
10.
Medium-pressure appliance, or isolated component of such appliance, with a full charge of less than 200 pounds of refrigerant
4
10.
Medium-pressure appliance, or isolated component of such appliance, with a full charge of 200 pounds or more of refrigerant
4
15.
Low-pressure appliance
25 mm Hg absolute
25 mm Hg absolute.
(b)
Small appliances.
Before opening a small appliance or when disposing of a small appliance, persons must recover refrigerant, using a recovery and/or recycling machine certified pursuant to § 82.158, according to the following conditions:
(1) When using recovery equipment manufactured before November 15, 1993, recover 80 percent of the refrigerant in the small appliance; or
(2) When using recovery equipment manufactured on or after November 15, 1993, recover 90 percent of the refrigerant in the appliance when the compressor in the appliance is functioning, or 80 percent of the refrigerant in the appliance when the compressor in the appliance is not functioning; or
(3) Evacuate the appliance to four inches of mercury vacuum.
(c)
MVAC-like appliances.
Persons may only open MVAC-like appliances while properly using, as defined at § 82.32(e), recovery and/or recycling equipment certified pursuant to § 82.158(f) or § 82.36, as applicable. All persons recovering refrigerant from MVAC-like appliances for purposes of disposal of these appliances must evacuate the appliance in accordance with 40 CFR part 82, subpart B or reduce the system pressure to or below 102 mm of mercury vacuum.
(d)
MVACs.
All persons recovering refrigerant from MVACs for purposes of disposal of these appliances must evacuate the appliance in accordance with 40 CFR part 82, subpart B or reduce the system pressure to or below 102 mm of mercury vacuum.
(e) System-dependent equipment may not be used with appliances with a full charge of more than 15 pounds of refrigerant, unless the system-dependent equipment is permanently attached to the appliance as a pump-out unit.
(f) Persons who maintain, service, repair, or dispose of only appliances that they own and that contain pump-out units are exempt from the requirement to use certified, self-contained recovery and/or recycling equipment.
(g) All recovery and/or recycling equipment must be used in accordance with the manufacturer's directions unless such directions conflict with the requirements of this subpart.
(h) Refrigerant may be returned to the appliance from which it is recovered or to another appliance owned by the same person without being recycled or reclaimed, unless the appliance is an MVAC or MVAC-like appliance.
(i) The provisions in this paragraph (i) apply to owners and operators of appliances containing 50 or more pounds of class I and class II refrigerants only until January 1, 2019. The definitions in paragraph (j) of this section apply for purposes of this paragraph (i) in lieu of the definitions in § 82.152.
(1) Owners or operators of commercial refrigeration equipment normally containing more than 50 pounds of refrigerant must have leaks repaired in
accordance with paragraph (i)(9) of this section, if the appliance is leaking at a rate such that the loss of refrigerant will exceed 35 percent of the total charge during a 12-month period, except as described in paragraphs (i)(6), (i)(8), and (i)(10) of this section and paragraphs (i)(1)(i), (i)(1)(ii), and (i)(1)(iii) of this section. Repairs must bring the annual leak rate to below 35 percent.
(i) If the owners or operators of the federally-owned commercial refrigerant appliances determine that the leaks cannot be repaired in accordance with paragraph (i)(9) of this section and that an extension in accordance with the requirements discussed in this paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section apply, they must document all repair efforts, and notify EPA of their inability to comply within the 30-day repair requirement, and the reason for the inability must be submitted to EPA in accordance with § 82.166(n). Such notification must be made within 30 days of discovering the leaks. EPA will determine if the extension requested in accordance with the requirements discussed in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section is justified. If the extension is not justified, EPA will notify the owner/operator within 30 days of receipt of the notification.
(ii) Owners or operators of federally-owned commercial refrigeration equipment may have more than 30 days to repair leaks if the refrigeration appliance is located in an area subject to radiological contamination or where the shutting down of the appliance will directly lead to radiological contamination. Only the additional time needed to conduct and complete repairs in a safe working environment will be permitted.
(iii) Owners or operators of federally-owned commercial refrigeration equipment requesting or who are granted time extensions under this paragraph must comply with paragraphs (i)(3) and (i)(4) of this section.
(2) The owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment normally containing more than 50 pounds of refrigerant must have leaks repaired if the appliance is leaking at a rate such that the loss of refrigerant will exceed 35 percent of the total charge during a 12-month period in accordance with paragraph (i)(9) of this section, except as described in paragraphs (i)(6), (i)(7) and (i)(10) of this section, and paragraphs (i)(2)(i) and (i)(2)(ii) of this section. Repairs must bring annual leak rates to below 35 percent during a 12-month period. If the owners or operators of the industrial process refrigeration equipment determine that the leak rate cannot be brought to below 35 percent during a 12-month period within 30 days (or 120 days, where an industrial process shutdown in accordance with paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section is required,) and in accordance with paragraph (i)(9) of this section, and that an extension in accordance with the requirements discussed in this paragraph apply, the owners or operators of the appliance must document all repair efforts, and notify EPA of the reason for the inability in accordance with § 82.166(n) within 30 days of making this determination. Owners or operators who obtain an extension pursuant to this section or elect to utilize the additional time provided in paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section, must conduct all necessary leak repairs, if any, that do not require any additional time beyond the initial 30 or 120 days.
(i) The owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment are permitted more than 30 days (or 120 days where an industrial process shutdown in accordance with paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section is required) to repair leaks, if the necessary parts are unavailable or if requirements of other applicable federal, state, or local regulations make a repair within 30 or 120 days impossible. Only the additional time needed to receive delivery of the necessary parts or to comply with the pertinent regulations will be permitted.
(ii) Owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment will have a 120-day repair period, rather than a 30-day repair period, to repair leaks in instances where an industrial process shutdown is needed to repair a leak or leaks from industrial process refrigeration equipment.
(3) Owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment and owners or operators of federally-owned
commercial refrigeration equipment or of federally-owned comfort cooling appliances who are granted additional time under paragraphs (i)(1) or (i)(5) of this section, must have repairs performed in a manner that sound professional judgment indicates will bring the leak rate below the applicable allowable leak rate. When an industrial process shutdown has occurred or when repairs have been made while an appliance is mothballed, the owners or operators shall conduct an initial verification test at the conclusion of the repairs and a follow-up verification test. The follow-up verification test shall be conducted within 30 days of completing the repairs or within 30 days of bringing the appliance back on-line, if taken off-line, but no sooner than when the appliance has achieved normal operating characteristics and conditions. When repairs have been conducted without an industrial process shutdown or system mothballing, an initial verification test shall be conducted at the conclusion of the repairs, and a follow-up verification test shall be conducted within 30 days of the initial verification test. In all cases, the follow-up verification test shall be conducted at normal operating characteristics and conditions, unless sound professional judgment indicates that tests performed at normal operating characteristics and conditions will produce less reliable results, in which case the follow-up verification test shall be conducted at or near the normal operating pressure where practicable, and at or near the normal operating temperature where practicable.
(i) If the owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment takes the appliance off-line, or if the owners or operators of federally-owned commercial refrigeration or of federally-owned comfort cooling appliances who are granted additional time under paragraphs (i)(1) or (i)(5) of this section take the appliance off-line, they cannot bring the appliance back on-line until an initial verification test indicates that the repairs undertaken in accordance with paragraphs (i)(1)(i), (ii), (iii), or (i)(2)(i) and (ii), or (5)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section have been successfully completed, demonstrating the leak or leaks are repaired. The owners or operators of the industrial process refrigeration equipment, federally-owned commercial refrigeration appliances, or federally-owned comfort cooling appliances are exempted from this requirement only where the owners or operators will retrofit or retire the industrial process refrigeration equipment, federally-owned commercial refrigeration appliance, or federally-owned comfort cooling appliance in accordance with paragraph (i)(6) of this section. Under this exemption, the owner or operators may bring the industrial process refrigeration equipment, federally-owned commercial refrigeration appliance, or federally-owned comfort cooling appliance back on-line without successful completion of an initial verification test.
(ii) If the follow-up verification test indicates that the repairs to industrial process refrigeration equipment, federally-owned commercial refrigeration equipment, or federally-owned comfort cooling appliances have not been successful, the owner or operator must retrofit or retire the equipment in accordance with paragraph (i)(6) and any such longer time period as may apply under paragraphs (i)(7)(i), (ii) and (iii) or (i)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section. The owners and operators of the industrial process refrigeration equipment, federally-owned commercial refrigeration equipment, or federally-owned comfort cooling appliances are relieved of this requirement if the conditions of paragraphs (i)(3)(iv) and/or (i)(3)(v) of this section are met.
(iii) The owner or operator of industrial process refrigeration equipment that fails a follow-up verification test must notify EPA within 30 days of the failed follow-up verification test in accordance with § 82.166(n).
(iv) The owner or operator is relieved of the obligation to retrofit or replace the industrial process refrigeration equipment as discussed in paragraph (i)(6) of this section if second repair efforts to fix the same leaks that were the subject of the first repair efforts are successfully completed within 30 days or 120 days where an industrial process shutdown is required, after the initial failed follow-up verification
test. The second repair efforts are subject to the same verification requirements of paragraphs (i)(3), (i)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section. The owner or operator is required to notify EPA within 30 days of the successful follow-up verification test in accordance with § 82.166(n) and the owner or operator is no longer subject to the obligation to retrofit or replace the appliance that arose as a consequence of the initial failure to verify that the leak repair efforts were successful.
(v) The owner or operator of industrial process refrigeration equipment is relieved of the obligation to retrofit or replace the equipment in accordance with paragraph (i)(6) of this section if within 180 days of the initial failed follow-up verification test, the owner or operator establishes that the appliance's annual leak rate does not exceed the applicable allowable annual leak rate, in accordance with paragraph (i)(4) of this section. If the appliance's owner or operator establishes that the appliance's annual leak rate does not exceed the applicable allowable annual leak rate, the owner or operator is required to notify EPA within 30 days of that determination in accordance with § 82.166(n) and the owner or operator would no longer be subject to the obligation to retrofit or replace the equipment that arose as a consequence of the initial failure to verify that the leak repair efforts were successful.
(4) In the case of a failed follow-up verification test subject to paragraph (i)(3)(v) of this section, the determination of whether industrial process refrigeration equipment has an annual leak rate that exceeds the applicable allowable annual leak rate will be made in accordance with parameters identified by the owner or operator in its notice to EPA regarding the failure of the initial follow-up verification test, if those parameters are acceptable to EPA; otherwise by parameters selected by EPA. The determination must be based on the full charge for the affected industrial process refrigeration equipment. The leak rate determination parameters in the owner's or operator's notice will be considered acceptable unless EPA notifies the owners or operators within 30 days of receipt of the notice. Where EPA does not accept the parameters identified by the owner or operator in its notice, EPA will not provide additional time beyond the additional time permitted in paragraph (i)(3)(v) of this section unless specifically stated in the parameters selected by EPA.
(5) Owners or operators of comfort cooling appliances normally containing more than 50 pounds of refrigerant and not covered by paragraph (i)(1) or (i)(2) of this section must have leaks repaired in accordance with paragraph (i)(9) of this section if the appliance is leaking at a rate such that the loss of refrigerant will exceed 15 percent of the total charge during a 12-month period, except as described in paragraphs (i)(6), (i)(8) and (i)(10) of this section and paragraphs (i)(5)(i), (i)(5)(ii) and (i)(5)(iii) of this section. Repairs must bring the annual leak rate to below 15 percent.
(i) If the owners or operators of federally-owned comfort-cooling appliances determine that the leaks cannot be repaired in accordance with paragraph (i)(9) of this section and that an extension in accordance with the requirements discussed in paragraph (i)(5) of this section apply, they must document all repair efforts, and notify EPA of their inability to comply within the 30-day repair requirement, and the reason for the inability must be submitted to EPA in accordance with § 82.166(n). Such notification must be made within 30 days of discovering that leak repair efforts cannot be completed within 30 days.
(ii) Owners or operators of federally-owned comfort-cooling appliances may have more than 30 days to repair leaks where the refrigeration appliance is located in an area subject to radiological contamination or where the shutting down of the appliance will directly lead to radiological contamination. Only the additional time needed to conduct and complete work in a safe environment will be permitted.
(iii) Owners or operators of federally-owned comfort-cooling appliances requesting, or who are granted, time extensions under this paragraph must comply with paragraphs (i)(3) and (i)(4) of this section.
(6) Owners or operators are not required to repair leaks as provided in
paragraphs (i)(1), (i)(2), and (i)(5) of this section if, within 30 days of discovering a leak greater than the applicable allowable leak rate, or within 30 days of a failed follow-up verification test, or after making good faith efforts to repair the leaks as described in paragraph (i)(6)(i) of this section, they develop a one-year retrofit or retirement plan for the leaking appliance. Owners or operators who decide to retrofit the appliance must use a refrigerant or substitute with a lower or equivalent ozone-depleting potential than the previous refrigerant and must include such a change in the retrofit plan. Owners or operators who retire and replace the appliance must replace the appliance with an appliance that uses a refrigerant or substitute with a lower or equivalent ozone-depleting potential and must include such a change in the retirement plan. The retrofit or retirement plan (or a legible copy) must be kept at the site of the appliance. The original plan must be made available for EPA inspection upon request. The plan must be dated, and all work performed in accordance with the plan must be completed within one year of the plan's date, except as described in paragraphs (i)(6)(i), (i)(7), and (i)(8) of this section. Owners or operators are temporarily relieved of this obligation if the appliance has undergone system mothballing as defined in § 82.152.
(i) If the owner or operator has made good faith efforts to repair leaks from the appliance in accordance with paragraphs (i)(1), (i)(2), or (i)(5) of this section and has decided prior to completing a follow-up verification test, to retrofit or retire the appliance in accordance with paragraph (i)(6) of this section, the owner or operator must develop a retrofit or retirement plan within 30 days of the decision to retrofit or retire the appliance. The owner or operator must complete the retrofit or retirement of the appliance within one year and 30 days of when the owner or operator discovered that the leak rate exceeded the applicable allowable leak rate, except as provided in paragraphs (i)(7) and (i)(8) of this section.
(ii) In all cases, subject to paragraph (i)(6)(i) of this section, the written plan shall be prepared no later than 30 days after the owner or operator has determined to proceed with retrofitting or retiring the appliance. All reports required under § 82.166(o) shall be due at the time specified in the paragraph imposing the specific reporting requirement, or no later than 30 days after the decision to retrofit or retire the appliance, whichever is later.
(iii) In cases where the owner or operator of industrial process refrigeration equipment has made good faith efforts to retrofit or retire industrial process refrigeration equipment prior to August 8, 1995, and where these efforts are not complete, the owner or operator must develop a retrofit or retirement plan that will complete the retrofit or retirement of the affected appliance by August 8, 1996. This plan (or a legible copy) must be kept at the site of the appliance. The original must be made available for EPA inspection upon request. Where the conditions of paragraphs (i)(7) and (i)(8) of this section apply, and where the length of time necessary to complete the work is beyond August 8, 1996, all records must be submitted to EPA in accordance with § 82.166(o), as well as maintained on-site.
(7) The owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment will be allowed additional time to complete the retrofit or retirement of industrial process refrigeration equipment if the conditions described in paragraphs (i)(7)(i) or (i)(7)(ii) of this section are met. The owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment will be allowed additional time beyond the additional time provided in paragraph (i)(7)(ii) of this section if the conditions described in paragraph (i)(7)(iii) of this section are met.
(i) Additional time, to the extent reasonably necessary will be allowed for retrofitting or retiring industrial process refrigeration equipment due to delays occasioned by the requirements of other applicable federal, state, or local laws or regulations, or due to the unavailability of a suitable replacement refrigerant with a lower ozone depletion potential. If these circumstances apply, the owner or operator of the facility must notify EPA within six months after the 30-day period following the discovery of an exceedance of the 35 percent leak rate.
Records necessary to allow EPA to determine that these provisions apply and the length of time necessary to complete the work must be submitted to EPA in accordance with § 82.166(o), as well as maintained on-site. EPA will notify the owner or operator of its determination within 60 days of receipt the submittal.
(ii) An additional one-year period beyond the initial one-year retrofit period is allowed for industrial process refrigeration equipment where the following criteria are met:
(A) The new or the retrofitted industrial process refrigerant equipment is custom-built;
(B) The supplier of the appliance or one or more of its critical components has quoted a delivery time of more than 30 weeks from when the order is placed;
(C) The owner or operator notifies EPA within six months of the expiration of the 30-day period following the discovery of an exceedance of the 35 percent leak rate to identify the owner or operator, describe the appliance involved, explain why more than one year is needed, and demonstrate that the first two criteria are met in accordance with § 82.166(o); and
(D) The owner or operator maintains records that are adequate to allow a determination that the criteria are met.
(iii) The owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment may request additional time to complete retrofitting or retiring industrial process refrigeration equipment beyond the additional one-year period if needed and where the initial additional one year was granted in accordance with paragraph (i)(7)(ii) of this section. The request shall be submitted to EPA before the end of the ninth month of the first additional year and shall include revisions of information required under § 82.166(o). Unless EPA objects to this request submitted in accordance with § 82.166(o) within 30 days of receipt, it shall be deemed approved.
(8) Owners or operators of federally-owned commercial or comfort-cooling appliances will be allowed an additional year to complete the retrofit or retirement of the appliances if the conditions described in paragraph (i)(8)(i) of this section are met, and will be allowed one year beyond the additional year if the conditions in paragraph (i)(8)(ii) of this section are met.
(i) Up to one additional one-year period beyond the initial one-year retrofit period is allowed for such equipment where the following criteria are met:
(A) Due to complications presented by the federal agency appropriations and/or procurement process, a delivery time of more than 30 weeks from the beginning of the official procurement process is quoted, or where the appliance is located in an area subject to radiological contamination and creating a safe working environment will require more than 30 weeks;
(B) The operator notifies EPA within six months of the expiration of the 30-day period following the discovery of an exceedance of the applicable allowable annual leak rate to identify the operator, describe the appliance involved, explain why more than one year is needed, and demonstrate that the first criterion is met in accordance with § 82.166(o); and
(C) The operator maintains records adequate to allow a determination that the criteria are met.
(ii) The owners or operators of federally-owned commercial or comfort-cooling appliances may request additional time to complete retrofitting, replacement or retiring such appliances beyond the additional one-year period if needed and where the initial additional one year was granted in accordance with paragraph (i)(8)(i) of this section. The request shall be submitted to EPA before the end of the ninth month of the first additional year and shall include revisions of information earlier submitted as required under § 82.166(o). Unless EPA objects to this request submitted in accordance with § 82.166(o) within 30 days of receipt, it shall be deemed approved.
(9) Owners or operators must repair leaks pursuant to paragraphs (i)(1), (i)(2) and (i)(5) of this section within 30 days after discovery, or within 30 days after when the leaks should have been discovered if the owners intentionally shielded themselves from information
which would have revealed a leak, unless granted additional time pursuant to § 82.156(i).
(10) The amount of time for owners and operators to complete repairs, retrofit plans or retrofits/replacements/ retirements under paragraphs (i)(1), (i)(2), (i)(5), (i)(6), (i)(7), (i)(8), and (i)(9) of this section is temporarily suspended at the time an appliance is mothballed as defined in § 82.152. The time for owners and operators to complete repairs, retrofit plans, or retrofits/replacements will resume on the day the appliance is brought back on-line and is no longer considered mothballed. All initial and follow-up verification tests must be performed in accordance with paragraphs (i)(3), (i)(3)(i), and (i)(3)(ii) of this section.
(11) In calculating annual leak rates, purged refrigerant that is destroyed at a verifiable destruction efficiency of 98 percent or greater will not be counted toward the leak rate. Owners or operators destroying purged refrigerants must maintain information as set forth in § 82.166(p)(1) and submit to EPA, within 60 days after the first time such exclusion is used by that facility, information set forth in § 82.166(p)(2).
(j)
Definitions for the leak repair provisions in 82.156(i).
These definitions are not applicable to any other portion of subpart F other than 82.156(i). Along with paragraph (i) of this section, the definitions in this section apply only until January 1, 2019.
Appliance
means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, any device which contains and uses a refrigerant and which is used for household or commercial purposes, including any air conditioner, refrigerator, chiller, or freezer.
Commercial refrigeration
means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, the refrigeration appliances utilized in the retail food and cold storage warehouse sectors. Retail food includes the refrigeration equipment found in supermarkets, convenience stores, restaurants and other food service establishments. Cold storage includes the equipment used to store meat, produce, dairy products, and other perishable goods. All of the equipment contains large refrigerant charges, typically over 75 pounds.
Critical component
means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, a component without which industrial process refrigeration equipment will not function, will be unsafe in its intended environment, and/or will be subject to failures that would cause the industrial process served by the refrigeration appliance to be unsafe.
Custom-built
means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, that the equipment or any of its critical components cannot be purchased and/or installed without being uniquely designed, fabricated and/or assembled to satisfy a specific set of industrial process conditions.
Follow-up verification test
means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, those tests that involve checking the repairs within 30 days of the appliance's returning to normal operating characteristics and conditions. Follow-up verification tests for appliances from which the refrigerant charge has been evacuated means a test conducted after the appliance or portion of the appliance has resumed operation at normal operating characteristics and conditions of temperature and pressure, except in cases where sound professional judgment dictates that these tests will be more meaningful if performed prior to the return to normal operating characteristics and conditions. A follow-up verification test with respect to repairs conducted without evacuation of the refrigerant charge means a reverification test conducted after the initial verification test and usually within 30 days of normal operating conditions. Where an appliance is not evacuated, it is only necessary to conclude any required changes in pressure, temperature or other conditions to return the appliance to normal operating characteristics and conditions.
Full charge
means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, the amount of refrigerant required for normal operating characteristics and conditions of the appliance as determined by using one or a combination of the following four methods:
(i) Use the equipment manufacturer's determination of the correct full charge for the equipment;
(ii) Determine the full charge by making appropriate calculations based on component sizes, density of refrigerant, volume of piping, and other relevant considerations;
(iii) Use actual measurements of the amount of refrigerant added or evacuated from the appliance; and/or
(iv) Use an established range based on the best available data regarding the normal operating characteristics and conditions for the appliance, where the midpoint of the range will serve as the full charge, and where records are maintained in accordance with § 82.166(q).
Industrial process refrigeration
means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, complex customized appliances used in the chemical, pharmaceutical, petrochemical and manufacturing industries. These appliances are directly linked to the industrial process. This sector also includes industrial ice machines, appliances used directly in the generation of electricity, and ice rinks. Where one appliance is used for both industrial process refrigeration and other applications, it will be considered industrial process refrigeration equipment if 50 percent or more of its operating capacity is used for industrial process refrigeration.
Industrial process shutdown
means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, that an industrial process or facility temporarily ceases to operate or manufacture whatever is being produced at that facility.
Initial verification test
means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, those leak tests that are conducted as soon as practicable after the repair is completed. An initial verification test, with regard to the leak repairs that require the evacuation of the appliance or portion of the appliance, means a test conducted prior to the replacement of the full refrigerant charge and before the appliance or portion of the appliance has reached operation at normal operating characteristics and conditions of temperature and pressure. An initial verification test with regard to repairs conducted without the evacuation of the refrigerant charge means a test conducted as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the repair work.
Leak rate
means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, the rate at which an appliance is losing refrigerant, measured between refrigerant charges. The leak rate is expressed in terms of the percentage of the appliance's full charge that would be lost over a 12-month period if the current rate of loss were to continue over that period. The rate is calculated using only one of the following methods for all appliances located at an operating facility.
(i) Method 1. (A) Step 1. Take the number of pounds of refrigerant added to the appliance to return it to a full charge and divide it by the number of pounds of refrigerant the appliance normally contains at full charge;
(B) Step 2. Take the shorter of the number of days that have passed since the last day refrigerant was added or 365 days and divide that number by 365 days;
(C) Step 3. Take the number calculated in Step 1. and divide it by the number calculated in Step 2.; and
(D) Step 4. Multiply the number calculated in Step 3. by 100 to calculate a percentage. This method is summarized in the following formula:
ER18NO16.076
(ii) Method 2. (A) Step 1. Take the sum of the quantity of refrigerant added to the appliance over the previous 365-day period (or over the period that has passed since leaks in the appliance were last repaired, if that period is less than one year),
(B) Step 2. Divide the result of Step 1. by the quantity (
e.g.,
pounds) of refrigerant the appliance normally contains at full charge, and
(C) Step 3. Multiply the result of Step 2. by 100 to obtain a percentage. This method is summarized in the following formula:
ER18NO16.077
Normal operating characteristics or conditions
means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, temperatures, pressures, fluid flows, speeds and other characteristics that would normally be expected for a given process load and ambient condition during operation. Normal operating characteristics and conditions are marked by the absence of atypical conditions affecting the operation of the refrigeration appliance.
Normally containing
a quantity of refrigerant means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, containing the quantity of refrigerant within the appliance or appliance component when the appliance is operating with a full charge of refrigerant.
Refrigerant
means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, any substance consisting in part or whole of a class I or class II ozone-depleting substance that is used for heat transfer purposes and provides a cooling effect.
Substitute
means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, any chemical or product, whether existing or new, that is used by any person as an EPA approved replacement for a class I or II ozone-depleting substance in a given refrigeration or air-conditioning end-use.
Suitable replacement refrigerant
means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, a refrigerant that is acceptable under section 612(c) of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 and all regulations promulgated under that section, compatible with other materials with which it may come into contact, and able to achieve the temperatures required for the affected industrial process in a technically feasible manner.
System mothballing
means, for the purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, the intentional shutting down of a refrigeration appliance undertaken for an extended period of time by the owners or operators of that facility, where the refrigerant has been evacuated from the appliance or the affected isolated section of the appliance, at least to atmospheric pressure.
[58 FR 28712, May 14, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 42956, 42962, Aug. 19, 1994; 59 FR 55926, Nov. 9, 1994; 60 FR 40440, Aug. 8, 1995; 68 FR 43807, July 24, 2003; 69 FR 11979, Mar. 12, 2004; 70 FR 1991, Jan. 11, 2005; 79 FR 29690, May 23, 2014; 8a FR 82354, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 82.157
Appliance maintenance and leak repair.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies as of January 1, 2019. As of April 10, 2020, this section applies only to appliances with a full charge of 50 or more pounds of any class I or class II refrigerant or blend containing a class I or class II refrigerant. Notwithstanding the use of the term refrigerant in this section, the requirements of this section do not apply to appliances containing solely substitute refrigerants. Unless otherwise specified, the requirements of this section apply to the owner or operator of the appliance.
(b)
Leak rate calculation.
Persons adding or removing refrigerant from an appliance must, upon conclusion of that service, provide the owner or operator with documentation that meets the applicable requirements of paragraph (l)(2) of this section. The owner or operator must calculate the leak rate every
time refrigerant is added to an appliance unless the addition is made immediately following a retrofit, installation of a new appliance, or qualifies as a seasonal variance.
(c)
Requirement to address leaks through appliance repair, or retrofitting or retiring an appliance.
(1) Owners or operators must repair appliances with a leak rate over the applicable leak rate in this paragraph in accordance with paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section unless the owner or operator elects to retrofit or retire the appliance in compliance with paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section. If the owner or operator elects to repair leaks, but fails to bring the leak rate below the applicable leak rate, the owner or operator must create and implement a retrofit or retirement plan in accordance with paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section.
(2) Leak Rates:
(i) 20 percent leak rate for commercial refrigeration equipment;
(ii) 30 percent leak rate for industrial process refrigeration equipment; and
(iii) 10 percent leak rate for comfort cooling appliances or other appliances with a full charge of 50 or more pounds of refrigerant not covered by (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(d)
Appliance repair.
Owners or operators must identify and repair leaks in accordance with this paragraph within 30 days (or 120 days if an industrial process shutdown is required) of when refrigerant is added to an appliance exceeding the applicable leak rate in paragraph (c) of this section.
(1) A certified technician must conduct a leak inspection, as described in paragraph (g) of this section, to identify the location of leaks.
(2) Leaks must be repaired such that the leak rate is brought below the applicable leak rate. This must be confirmed by the leak rate calculation performed upon the next refrigerant addition. The leaks will be presumed to be repaired if there is no further refrigerant addition for 12 months after the repair or if the leak inspections required under paragraph (g) do not find any leaks in the appliance. Repair of leaks must be documented by both an initial and a follow-up verification test or tests.
(3) The time frames in paragraphs (d) through(f) of this section are temporarily suspended when an appliance is mothballed. The time will resume on the day additional refrigerant is added to the appliance (or component of an appliance if the leaking component was isolated).
(e)
Verification tests.
The owner or operator must conduct both initial and follow-up verification tests on each leak that was repaired under paragraph (d) of this section.
(1)
Initial verification test.
Unless granted additional time, an initial verification test must be performed within 30 days (or 120 days if an industrial process shutdown is required) of an appliance exceeding the applicable leak rate in paragraph (c) of this section. An initial verification test must demonstrate that leaks where a repair attempt was made are repaired.
(i) For repairs that can be completed without the need to open or evacuate the appliance, the test must be performed after the conclusion of the repair work and before any additional refrigerant is added to the appliance.
(ii) For repairs that require the evacuation of the appliance or portion of the appliance, the test must be performed before adding any refrigerant to the appliance.
(iii) If the initial verification test indicates that the repairs have not been successful, the owner or operator may conduct as many additional repairs and initial verification tests as needed within the applicable time period.
(2)
Follow-up verification test.
A follow-up verification test must be performed within 10 days of the successful initial verification test or 10 days of the appliance reaching normal operating characteristics and conditions (if the appliance or isolated component was evacuated for the repair(s)). Where it is unsafe to be present or otherwise impossible to conduct a follow-up verification test when the system is operating at normal operating characteristics and conditions, the verification test must, where practicable, be conducted prior to the system returning to normal operating characteristics and conditions.
(i) A follow-up verification test must demonstrate that leaks where a repair
attempt was made are repaired. If the follow-up verification test indicates that the repairs have not been successful, the owner or operator may conduct as many additional repairs and verification tests as needed to bring the appliance below the leak rate within the applicable time period and to verify the repairs.
(f)
Extensions to the appliance repair deadlines.
Owners or operators are permitted more than 30 days (or 120 days if an industrial process shutdown is required) to comply with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section if they meet the requirements of (f)(1) through (4) of this section or the appliance is mothballed. The request will be considered approved unless EPA notifies the owners or operators otherwise.
(1) One or more of the following conditions must apply:
(i) The appliance is located in an area subject to radiological contamination or shutting down the appliance will directly lead to radiological contamination. Additional time is permitted to the extent needed to conduct and finish repairs in a safe working environment.
(ii) Requirements of other applicable Federal, state, or local regulations make a repair within 30 days (or 120 days if an industrial process shutdown is required) impossible. Additional time is permitted to the extent needed to comply with the pertinent regulations.
(iii) Components that must be replaced as part of the repair are not available within 30 days (or 120 days if an industrial process shutdown is required). Additional time is permitted up to 30 days after receiving delivery of the necessary components, not to exceed 180 days (or 270 days if an industrial process shutdown is required) from the date the appliance exceeded the applicable leak rate.
(2) Repairs to leaks that the technician has identified as significantly contributing to the exceedance of the leak rate and that do not require additional time must be completed and verified within the initial 30 day repair period (or 120 day repair period if an industrial process shutdown is required);
(3) The owner or operator must document all repair efforts and the reason for the inability to make the repair within the initial 30 day repair period (or 120 day repair period if an industrial process shutdown is required); and
(4) The owner or operator must request an extension from EPA at the address specified in paragraph (m) of this section within 30 days (or 120 days if an industrial process shutdown is required) of the appliance exceeding the applicable leak rate in paragraph (c) of this section. Extension requests must include: Identification and address of the facility; the name of the owner or operator of the appliance; the leak rate; the method used to determine the leak rate and full charge; the date the appliance exceeded the applicable leak rate; the location of leak(s) to the extent determined to date; any repair work that has been performed thus far, including the date that work was completed; the reasons why more than 30 days (or 120 days if an industrial process shutdown is required) are needed to complete the repair; and an estimate of when the work will be completed. If the estimated completion date is to be extended, a new estimated date of completion and documentation of the reason for that change must be submitted to EPA within 30 days of identifying that the completion date must be extended. The owner or operator must keep a dated copy of this submission.
(g)
Leak inspections.
(1) The owner or operator must conduct a leak inspection in accordance with the following schedule on any appliance exceeding the applicable leak rate in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(i) For commercial refrigeration and industrial process refrigeration appliances with a full charge of 500 or more pounds, leak inspections must be conducted once every three months until the owner or operator can demonstrate through the leak rate calculations required under paragraph (b) of this section that the appliance has not leaked in excess of the applicable leak rate for four quarters in a row.
(ii) For commercial refrigeration and industrial process refrigeration appliances with a full charge of 50 or more pounds but less than 500 pounds, leak inspections must be conducted once per calendar year until the owner or operator can demonstrate through the leak
rate calculations required under paragraph (b) of this section that the appliance has not leaked in excess of the applicable leak rate for one year.
(iii) For comfort cooling appliances and other appliances not covered by paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, leak inspections must be conducted once per calendar year until the owner or operator can demonstrate through the leak rate calculations required under paragraph (b) of this section that the appliance has not leaked in excess of the applicable leak rate for one year.
(2) Leak inspections must be conducted by a certified technician using method(s) determined by the technician to be appropriate for that appliance.
(3) All visible and accessible components of an appliance must be inspected, with the following exceptions:
(i) Where components are insulated, under ice that forms on the outside of equipment, underground, behind walls, or are otherwise inaccessible;
(ii) Where personnel must be elevated more than two meters above a support surface; or
(iii) Where components are unsafe to inspect, as determined by site personnel.
(4) Quarterly or annual leak inspections are not required on appliances, or portions of appliances, continuously monitored by an automatic leak detection system that is audited or calibrated annually. An automatic leak detection system may directly detect refrigerant in air, monitor its surrounding in a manner other than detecting refrigerant concentrations in air, or monitor conditions of the appliance.
(i) For systems that directly detect the presence of a refrigerant in air, the system must:
(A) Only be used to monitor components located inside an enclosed building or structure;
(B) Have sensors or intakes placed so that they will continuously monitor the refrigerant concentrations in air in proximity to the compressor, evaporator, condenser, and other areas with a high potential for a refrigerant leak;
(C) Accurately detect a concentration level of 10 parts per million of vapor of the specific refrigerant or refrigerants used in the refrigeration appliance(s); and
(D) Alert the owner or operator when a refrigerant concentration of 100 parts per million of vapor of the specific refrigerant or refrigerants used in the refrigeration appliance(s) is reached.
(ii) For a system that monitors its surrounding in a manner other than detecting refrigerant concentrations in air or monitor conditions of the appliance, the system must automatically alert the owner or operator when measurements indicate a loss of 50 pounds of refrigerant or 10 percent of the full charge, whichever is less.
(iii) When automatic leak detection equipment is only being used to monitor portions of an appliance, the remainder of the appliance continues to be subject to any applicable leak inspection requirements.
(h)
Retrofit or retirement plans.
(1) The owner or operator must create a retrofit or retirement plan within 30 days of:
(i) an appliance leaking above the applicable leak rate in paragraph (c) of this section if the owner or operator intends to retrofit or retire rather than repair the leak;
(ii) an appliance leaking above the applicable leak rate in paragraph (c) of this section if the owner or operator fails to take any action to identify or repair the leak; or
(iii) an appliance continues to leak above the applicable leak rate after having conducted the required repairs and verification tests under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(2) A retrofit or retirement plan must, at a minimum, contain the following information:
(i) Identification and location of the appliance;
(ii) Type and full charge of the refrigerant used in the appliance;
(iii) Type and full charge of the refrigerant to which the appliance will be converted, if retrofitted;
(iv) Itemized procedure for converting the appliance to a different refrigerant, including changes required for compatibility with the new substitute, if retrofitted;
(v) Plan for the disposition of recovered refrigerant;
(vi) Plan for the disposition of the appliance, if retired; and
(vii) A schedule, not to exceed one-year, for completion of the appliance retrofit or retirement.
(3) The retrofit or retirement plan must be signed by an authorized company official, dated, accessible at the site of the appliance in paper copy or electronic format, and available for EPA inspection upon request.
(4) All identified leaks must be repaired as part of any retrofit under such a plan.
(5)(i) Unless granted additional time, all work performed in accordance with the plan must be finished within one year of the plan's date (not to exceed 13 months from when the plan was required in paragraph (h)(1) of this section).
(ii) The owner or operator may request that EPA relieve it of the obligation to retrofit or retire an appliance if the owner or operator can establish within 180 days of the plan's date that the appliance no longer exceeds the applicable leak rate and if the owner or operator agrees in writing to repair all identified leaks within one year of the plan's date consistent with paragraph (h)(4) and (h)(5)(i) of this section. The owner or operator must submit to EPA the retrofit or retirement plan as well as the following information: The date that the requirement to develop a retrofit or retirement plan was triggered; the leak rate; the method used to determine the leak rate and full charge; the location of the leak(s) identified in the leak inspection; a description of repair work that has been completed; a description of repair work that has not been completed; a description of why the repair was not conducted within the time frames required under paragraphs (d) and (f) of this section; and a statement signed by an authorized official that all identified leaks will be repaired and an estimate of when those repairs will be completed (not to exceed one year from date of the plan). The request will be considered approved unless EPA notifies the owners or operators within 60 days of receipt of the request that it is not approved.
(i)
Extensions to the one-year retrofit or retirement schedule.
Owners or operators may request more than one year to comply with paragraph (h) of this section if they meet the requirements of this paragraph. The request will be considered approved unless EPA notifies the owners or operators within 60 days of receipt of the request that it is not approved. The request must be submitted to EPA at the address specified in § 82.157(m) within seven months of discovering the appliance exceeded the applicable leak rate. The request must include the identification of the appliance; name of the owner or operator; the leak rate; the method used to determine the leak rate and full charge; the date the appliance exceeded the applicable leak rate; the location of leaks(s) to the extent determined to date; any repair work that has been finished thus far, including the date that work was finished; a plan to finish the retrofit or retirement of the appliance; the reasons why more than one year is necessary to retrofit or retire the appliance; the date of notification to EPA; and an estimate of when retrofit or retirement work will be finished. A dated copy of the request must be available on-site in either electronic or paper copy. If the estimated completion date is to be revised, a new estimated date of completion and documentation of the reason for that change must be submitted to EPA at the address specified in § 82.157(m) within 30 days. Additionally, the time frames in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section are temporarily suspended when an appliance is mothballed. The time will resume running on the day additional refrigerant is added to the appliance (or component of an appliance if the leaking component was isolated).
(1)
Extensions available to any appliance.
Owners or operators of commercial refrigeration, industrial process refrigeration, comfort-cooling, or other equipment are automatically allowed 18 months to retire an appliance if the replacement appliance uses a substitute refrigerant exempted under § 82.154(a).
(2)
Extensions available to industrial process refrigeration.
Owners or operators of industrial process refrigeration equipment may request additional time beyond the one-year period in paragraph (h) of this section to finish
the retrofit or retirement under the following circumstances.
(i) Requirements of other applicable Federal, state, or local regulations make a retrofit or retirement within one year impossible. Additional time is permitted to the extent needed to comply with the pertinent regulations;
(ii) The new or the retrofitted equipment is custom-built as defined in this subpart and the supplier of the appliance or one of its components has quoted a delivery time of more than 30 weeks from when the order is placed. The appliance or appliance components must be installed within 120 days after receiving delivery of the necessary parts; or
(iii) After receiving an extension under paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section, owners or operators may request additional time if necessary to finish the retrofit or retirement of equipment. The request must be submitted to EPA before the end of the ninth month of the initial extension and must include the same information submitted for that extension, with any necessary revisions. A dated copy of the request must be available on-site in either electronic or paper copy. The request will be considered approved unless EPA notifies the owners or operators within 60 days of receipt of the request that it is not approved.
(3)
Extensions available to Federally owned equipment.
Owners or operators of federally owned commercial or comfort-cooling equipment may request an additional year beyond the one-year period in paragraph (h) of this section to finish the retrofit or retirement under the following circumstances:
(i) A delivery time of more than 30 weeks from the beginning of the official procurement process is quoted due to complications presented by the Federal agency appropriations and/or procurement process;
(ii) The appliance is located in an area subject to radiological contamination and creating a safe working environment will require more than 30 weeks; or
(iii) After receiving a one-year extension under paragraphs (i)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, additional time may be requested if necessary to finish the retrofit or retirement of equipment. The request must be submitted to EPA before the end of the ninth month of the one-year extension and must include the same information submitted for that one-year extension, with any necessary revisions. A dated copy of the request must be available on-site in either electronic or paper copy. The request will be considered approved unless EPA notifies the owners or operators within 60 days of receipt of the request that it is not approved.
(j)
Chronically leaking appliances.
Owners or operators of appliances containing 50 pounds or more of refrigerant that leak 125 percent or more of the full charge in a calendar year must submit a report to EPA at the address in paragraph (m) of this section. This report must be submitted by March 1 of the subsequent year and describe efforts to identify leaks and repair the appliance.
(k)
Purged refrigerant.
In calculating annual leak rates, purged refrigerant that is destroyed at a verifiable destruction efficiency of 98 percent or greater will not be counted toward the leak rate.
(l)
Recordkeeping.
All records identified in this paragraph must be kept for at least three years in electronic or paper format, unless otherwise specified.
(1) Owners or operators must determine the full charge of all appliances with 50 or more pounds of refrigerant and maintain the following information for each appliance until three years after the appliance is retired:
(i) The identification of the owner or operator of the appliance;
(ii) The address where the appliance is located;
(iii) The full charge of the appliance and the method for how the full charge was determined;
(iv) If using method 4 (using an established range) for determining full charge, records must include the range for the full charge of the appliance, its midpoint, and how the range was determined;
(v) Any revisions of the full charge, how they were determined, and the dates such revisions occurred.
(2) Owners or operators must maintain a record including the following information for each time an appliance
with a full charge of 50 or more pounds is maintained, serviced, repaired, or disposed of, when applicable. If the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal is done by someone other than the owner or operator, that person must provide a record containing the following information, with the exception of (l)(2)(vii) and (viii) of this section, to the owner or operator:
(i) The identity and location of the appliance;
(ii) The date of the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal performed;
(iii) The part(s) of the appliance being maintained, serviced, repaired, or disposed;
(iv) The type of maintenance, service, repair, or disposal performed for each part;
(v) The name of the person performing the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal;
(vi) The amount and type of refrigerant added to, or in the case of disposal removed from, the appliance;
(vii) The full charge of the appliance; and
(viii) The leak rate and the method used to determine the leak rate (not applicable when disposing of the appliance, following a retrofit, installing a new appliance, or if the refrigerant addition qualifies as a seasonal variance).
(3) Owners or operators must keep records of leak inspections that include the date of inspection, the method(s) used to conduct the leak inspection, a list of the location of each leak that was identified, and a certification that all visible and accessible parts of the appliance were inspected. Technicians conducting leak inspections must, upon conclusion of that service, provide the owner or operator of the appliance with documentation that meets these requirements.
(4) If using an automatic leak detection system, the owner or operator must maintain records regarding the installation and the annual audit and calibration of the system, a record of each date the monitoring system identified a leak, and the location of the leak.
(5) Owners or operators must maintain records of the dates and results of all initial and follow-up verification tests. Records must include the location of the appliance, the date(s) of the verification tests, the location(s) of all repaired leaks that were tested, the type(s) of verification test(s) used, and the results of those tests. Technicians conducting initial or follow-up verification tests must, upon conclusion of that service, provide the owner or operator of the appliance with documentation that meets these requirements.
(6) Owners or operators must maintain retrofit or retirement plans developed in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.
(7) Owners or operators must maintain retrofit and/or extension requests submitted to EPA in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.
(8) Owners or operators that suspend the deadlines in this section by mothballing an appliance must keep records documenting when the appliance was mothballed and when additional refrigerant was added to the appliance (or isolated component).
(9) Owners or operators who exclude purged refrigerants that are destroyed from annual leak rate calculations must maintain records to support the amount of refrigerant claimed as sent for destruction. Records must be based on a monitoring strategy that provides reliable data to demonstrate that the amount of refrigerant claimed to have been destroyed is not greater than the amount of refrigerant actually purged and destroyed and that the 98 percent or greater destruction efficiency is met. Records must include flow rate, quantity or concentration of the refrigerant in the vent stream, and periods of purge flow. Records must include:
(i) The identification of the facility and a contact person, including the address and telephone number;
(ii) A description of the appliance, focusing on aspects relevant to the purging of refrigerant and subsequent destruction;
(iii) A description of the methods used to determine the quantity of refrigerant sent for destruction and type of records that are being kept by the owners or operators where the appliance is located;
(iv) The frequency of monitoring and data-recording; and
(v) A description of the control device, and its destruction efficiency.
(10) Owners or operators that exclude additions of refrigerant due to seasonal variance from their leak rate calculation must maintain records stating that they are using the seasonal variance flexibility and documenting the amount added and removed under § 82.157(l)(2).
(11) Owners or operators that submit reports to EPA in accordance with paragraph (m) of this section must maintain copies of the submitted reports and any responses from EPA.
(m)
Reporting.
All notifications must be submitted electronically to
608reports@epa.gov
unless the notification contains confidential business information. If the notification contains confidential business information, the information should be submitted to: Section 608 Program Manager; Stratospheric Protection Division; Mail Code: 6205T; U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20460.
(1) Owners or operators must notify EPA at this address in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section when seeking an extension of time to complete repairs.
(2) Owners or operators must notify EPA at this address in accordance with paragraph (h)(5)(ii) of this section when seeking relief from the obligation to retrofit or retire an appliance.
(3) Owners or operators must notify EPA at this address in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section when seeking an extension of time to complete the retrofit or retirement of an appliance.
(4) Owners or operators must notify EPA at this address in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section for any appliance that leaks 125 percent or more of the full charge in a calendar year.
(5) When excluding purged refrigerants that are destroyed from annual leak rate calculations, owners or operators must notify EPA at this address within 60 days after the first time the exclusion is used by the facility where the appliance is located. The report must include the information included in paragraph (l)(9) of this section.
[81 FR 82356, Nov. 18, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 14171, Apr. 10, 2020]
§ 82.158
Standards for recovery and/or recycling equipment.
Starting January 1, 2017, this section applies to recovery and/or recycling equipment for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances containing any class I or class II refrigerant or any non-exempt substitute refrigerant.
(a) No person may manufacture or import recovery and/or recycling equipment for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances unless the equipment is certified in accordance with this section.
(b) No person may alter the design of certified refrigerant recovery and/or recycling equipment in a way that would affect the equipment's ability to meet the certification standards in this section without resubmitting the altered design for certification testing. Until it is tested and shown to meet the certification standards in this section, equipment so altered will be considered uncertified.
(c) Recovery and/or recycling equipment manufactured or imported before November 15, 1993, intended for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) will be considered certified if it is capable of achieving the level of evacuation specified in Table 2 of this section when tested using a properly calibrated pressure gauge.
(d) Manufacturers and importers of recovery and/or recycling equipment must have such equipment certified by an approved equipment testing organization as follows:
(1) Recovery and/or recycling equipment manufactured or imported on or after November 15, 1993, and before September 22, 2003, intended for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) must be certified by an approved equipment testing organization as being capable of achieving the level of evacuation specified in Table 2 of this section under the conditions of appendix B1 of this subpart (based upon the ARI Standard 740-1993,
Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling and/or Reclaim Equipment
).
(2) Recovery and/or recycling equipment manufactured or imported on or after September 22, 2003, and before January 1, 2017, intended for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) must be certified by an approved equipment testing organization as being capable of achieving the level of evacuation specified in Table 2 of this section under the conditions of appendix B2 of this subpart (based upon the ARI Standard 740-1995,
Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling and/or Reclaim Equipment
).
(3) Recovery and/or recycling equipment manufactured or imported on or after January 1, 2017, intended for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) must be certified by an approved equipment testing organization as being capable of achieving the level of evacuation specified in Table 2 of this section under the conditions of appendix B3 (for non-flammable refrigerants) based upon AHRI Standard 740-2016 or appendix B4 (for flammable refrigerants) of this subpart.
Table 2—Levels of Evacuation Which Must Be Achieved by Recovery and/or Recycling Equipment
[Except for small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances.]
Type of appliance with which recovery and/or recycling machine is intended to be used
Inches of Hg vacuum
(relative to standard atmospheric pressure of 29.9 inches Hg)
Manufactured or
imported before
November 15, 1993
Manufactured or
imported on or after
November 15, 1993
HCFC-22 appliances, or isolated component of such appliances, with a full charge of less than 200 pounds of refrigerant
0
0.
HCFC-22 appliances, or isolated component of such appliances, with a full charge of 200 pounds or more of refrigerant
4
10.
Very high-pressure appliances
0
0.
Other high-pressure appliances, or isolated component of such appliances, with a full charge of less than 200 pounds of refrigerant
4
10.
Other high-pressure appliances, or isolated component of such appliances, with a full charge of 200 pounds or more of refrigerant
4
15.
Medium-pressure appliances, or isolated component of such appliances, with a full charge of less than 200 pounds of refrigerant
4
10.
Medium-pressure appliances, or isolated component of such appliances, with a full charge of 200 pounds or more of refrigerant
4
15.
Low-pressure appliances
25 mm Hg absolute
25 mm Hg absolute.
(4) Recovery and/or recycling equipment whose recovery efficiency cannot be tested according to the procedures in appendix B1, B2, B3, or B4 of this subpart as applicable may be certified if an approved third-party testing organization adopts and performs a test that demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, that the recovery efficiency of that equipment is equal to or better than that of equipment that:
(i) Is intended for use with the same type of appliance; and
(ii) Achieves the level of evacuation in Table 2. The manufacturer's instructions must specify how to achieve the required recovery efficiency, and the equipment must be tested when used according to these instructions.
(5) The equipment must meet the minimum requirements for certification under appendix B1, B2, B3, or B4 of this subpart as applicable.
(6) If the equipment is equipped with a noncondensables purge device, the equipment must not release more than 3 percent of the quantity of refrigerant being recycled through noncondensables purging under the conditions of appendix B1, B2, B3, or B4 of this subpart as applicable.
(7) The equipment must be equipped with low-loss fittings on all hoses.
(8) The equipment must have its liquid recovery rate and its vapor recovery rate measured under the conditions of appendix B1, B2, B3, or B4 as applicable, unless the equipment has no inherent liquid or vapor recovery rate.
(e)
Small appliances.
Equipment used during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of small appliances must be certified by an approved equipment testing organization to be capable of recovering 90 percent of the refrigerant in the test stand when the compressor of the test stand is operational and 80 percent of the refrigerant when the compressor of the test stand is not operational, when used in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions under the conditions of appendix C, Method for Testing Recovery Devices for Use with Small Appliances.
(1) Equipment manufactured or imported before November 15, 1993, will be considered certified if it is capable of either recovering 80 percent of the refrigerant in the system, whether or not the compressor of the test stand is operational, or achieving a four-inch vacuum when tested using a properly calibrated pressure gauge.
(2) Equipment manufactured or imported on or after November 15, 1993, may also be certified if it is capable of achieving a four-inch vacuum under the conditions of appendix B1 of this subpart, based upon ARI Standard 740-1993.
(3) Equipment manufactured or imported on or after September 22, 2003, and before January 1, 2017, may also be certified if it is capable of achieving a four-inch vacuum under the conditions of appendix B2 of this subpart, based upon ARI Standard 740-1995.
(4) Equipment manufactured or imported on or after January 1, 2017, may also be certified if it is capable of achieving a four-inch vacuum under the conditions of appendix B3 of this subpart (for non-flammable refrigerants), based upon AHRI Standard 740-2016 or appendix B4 of this subpart (for flammable refrigerants), based upon both AHRI Standard 740-2016 and UL 1963, Supplement SB,
Requirements for Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment Intended for Use with a Flammable Refrigerant,
Fourth Edition, June 1, 2011.
(5) Equipment used to evacuate any class I or class II refrigerant or any non-exempt substitute refrigerant from small appliances before they are disposed of may also be certified if it is capable of achieving a four-inch vacuum when tested using a properly calibrated pressure gauge.
(f)
MVAC-like appliances.
(1) Manufacturers and importers of recovery and/or recycling equipment intended for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of MVAC-like appliances must certify such equipment in accordance with subpart B of this part.
(2) Equipment manufactured or imported before November 15, 1993, intended for use during the maintenance, service, or repair of MVAC-like appliances must be capable of reducing the system pressure to 102 mm of mercury vacuum under the conditions of appendix A of subpart B of this part.
(g)
MVACs.
Manufacturers and importers of recovery and/or recycling equipment intended for use during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of MVACs must certify such equipment in accordance with subpart B of this part.
(h)
Labeling.
(1) Manufacturers and importers of equipment certified under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section must place a label on each piece of equipment stating the following:
THIS EQUIPMENT HAS BEEN CERTIFIED BY [APPROVED EQUIPMENT TESTING ORGANIZATION] TO MEET EPA's MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR RECYCLING OR RECOVERY EQUIPMENT INTENDED FOR USE WITH [APPROPRIATE CATEGORY OF APPLIANCE].
(2) The label must also show the date of manufacture and the serial number (if applicable) of the equipment. The label must be affixed in a readily visible or accessible location, be made of a material expected to last the lifetime of the equipment, present required information in a way that it is likely to remain legible for the lifetime of the equipment, and be affixed in such a way that it cannot be removed from the equipment without damage to the label.
(i)
Retesting.
At least once every three years, manufacturers or importers of certified recovery and/or recycling equipment intended for use during the maintenance, service, or repair of appliances (except MVACs or MVAC-like appliances) or during the disposal of appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) must have approved equipment testing organizations conduct either:
(1) Retests of certified recovery and/or recycling equipment in accordance with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section; or
(2) Inspections of recovery and/or recycling equipment at manufacturing facilities to ensure that each equipment model line that has been certified under this section continues to meet the certification criteria.
(j)
Revocation.
An equipment model line that has been certified under this section may have its certification revoked if it is subsequently determined to fail to meet the certification criteria. In such cases, the Administrator must give notice to the manufacturer or importer setting forth the basis for the determination.
(k) Equipment that is advertised or marketed as “recycling equipment” must be capable of recycling the standard contaminated refrigerant sample of appendix B2, B3, or B4 of this subpart (as applicable) to the levels in the following table when tested under the conditions of appendix B2, B3 or B4 of this subpart:
Maximum Levels of Contaminants Permissible in Refrigerant Processed Through Equipment Advertised as “Recycling” Equipment
Contaminants
Low-pressure (R-11, R-123, R-113) systems
R-12 systems
All other systems
Acid Content (by wt.)
1.0 PPM
1.0 PPM
1.0 PPM.
Moisture (by wt.)
20 PPM
10 PPM
20 PPM.
Noncondensable Gas (by vol.)
N/A
2.0%
2.0%.
High Boiling Residues (by vol.)
1.0%
0.02%
0.02%.
Chlorides by Silver Nitrate Test
No turbidity
No turbidity
No turbidity.
Particulates
Visually clean
Visually clean
Visually clean.
[81 FR 82360, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 82.160
Approved equipment testing organizations.
(a) Any equipment testing organization may apply for approval by the Administrator to certify equipment under the standards in § 82.158 and appendices B2, B3, B4, or C of this subpart. Applications must be sent to
608reports@epa.gov
, or if containing confidential business information, mailed to: Section 608 Program Manager, Stratospheric Protection Division, Mail Code: 6205T, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20460.
(b) Applications for approval must include:
(1) A list of equipment present at the organization that will be used for equipment testing.
(2) Verification of the organization's expertise in equipment testing and the technical experience of the organization's personnel.
(3) Verification of the organization's knowledge of the standards and recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart.
(4) A description of the organization's program for verifying the performance of certified recovery and/or recycling equipment manufactured over the long term, specifying whether retests of equipment or inspections of equipment at manufacturing facilities will be used.
(5) Verification that the organization has no conflict of interest and receives no direct or indirect financial benefit from the outcome of certification testing.
(6) Agreement to allow the Administrator access to records and personnel to verify the information contained in the application.
(c) Organizations may not certify equipment before receiving approval from EPA. If approval is denied under this section, the Administrator must give written notice to the organization setting forth the basis for the determination.
(d) If an approved testing organization conducts certification tests in a way not consistent with the representations made in its application or with the provisions of this subpart, the Administrator may revoke approval in accordance with § 82.169. In such cases, the Administrator must give notice to the organization setting forth the basis for the determination.
(e)
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(1) Approved equipment testing organizations must maintain records of equipment testing and performance and a list of equipment that meets EPA requirements. This list must include the name of the manufacturer and the name and/or serial number of the model line. Approved equipment testing organizations must publish online a list of all certified equipment that includes the information specified above and update the list annually.
(2) Approved equipment testing organizations must notify EPA at
608reports@epa.gov
if retests of equipment or inspections of manufacturing facilities conducted under to § 82.158(i) show that a previously certified model line fails to meet EPA requirements. Such notification must be received within thirty days of the retest or inspection.
(3) All records must be maintained for three years after the equipment is no longer offered for sale. Online lists must contain certified equipment until three years after that equipment is no longer offered for sale.
[81 FR 82362, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 82.161
Technician certification.
Until January 1, 2018, this section applies only to technicians and organizations certifying technicians that maintain, service, or repair appliances containing class I or class II refrigerants. Starting on January 1, 2018, this section applies to technicians and organizations certifying technicians that maintain, service, or repair appliances containing any class I or class II refrigerant or any non-exempt substitute refrigerant.
(a)
Certification requirements.
(1) Any person who could be reasonably expected to violate the integrity of the refrigerant circuit during the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal of appliances (as follows in this paragraph) containing a class I or class II refrigerant or a non-exempt substitute refrigerant must pass a certification exam offered by an approved technician certification program.
(i) Persons who maintain, service, or repair small appliances must be certified as Type I technicians.
(ii) Persons who maintain, service, repair, or dispose of medium-, high-, or very high-pressure appliances (except small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances) must be certified as Type II technicians.
(iii) Persons who maintain, service, repair, or dispose of low-pressure appliances must be certified as Type III technicians.
(iv) Persons who maintain, service, repair, or dispose of all appliances described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section must be certified as Universal technicians.
(v) Technicians who maintain, service, or repair MVAC-like appliances must either be certified as Type II technicians or be certified in accordance with 40 CFR part 82, subpart B.
(vi) Persons who maintain, service, or repair MVAC appliances for consideration must be certified in accordance with 40 CFR part 82, subpart B.
(vii) Persons who dispose of small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like appliances are not required to be certified.
(2) Apprentices are exempt from the requirement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section provided the apprentice is closely and continually supervised by a certified technician while performing any maintenance, service, repair, or disposal that could reasonably be expected to release refrigerant from an appliance into the environment, except those substitute refrigerants exempted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The supervising certified technician and the apprentice have the responsibility to ensure that the apprentice complies with this subpart.
(3) The Administrator may require technicians to demonstrate at their place of business their ability to perform proper procedures for recovering and/or recycling refrigerant, except those substitute refrigerants exempted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Failure to demonstrate or failure to properly use the equipment may result in revocation or suspension of the certificate. Failure to abide by any of the provisions of this subpart may also result in revocation or suspension of the certificate. If a technician's certificate is revoked, the technician would need to recertify before maintaining, servicing, repairing, or disposing of any appliances.
(4) (i) Technicians certified under this section must keep a copy of their certificate at their place of business.
(ii) Technicians must maintain a copy of their certificate until three years after no longer operating as a technician.
(5)
Recertification.
The Administrator reserves the right to specify a requirement for technician recertification at some future date, if necessary, by placing a notice in the
Federal Register
.
(b)
Requirements for Technician Certification Programs.
(1) No technician training or testing program may issue certificates under this section unless the program complies with all the standards of this section and appendix D, and has been granted approval by the Administrator.
(2)
Program approval.
Persons may seek approval of any technician certification program (program), in accordance with this paragraph, by submitting to the Administrator at the address in § 82.160(a) verification that the program meets all the standards listed in appendix D of this subpart. The Administrator reserves the right to consider other relevant factors to ensure the effectiveness of certification programs. If approval is denied under this section, the Administrator must give written notice to the program setting forth the basis for the determination.
(3)
Alternative examinations.
Programs are encouraged to make provisions for non-English speaking technicians by providing tests in other languages or allowing the use of a translator when taking the test. A test may be administered orally to any person who makes this request, in writing, to the program at least 30 days before the scheduled date for the examination. The written request must explain why the request is being made.
(4)
Proof of certification.
Programs certifying technicians must provide technicians with identification cards in accordance with section (f) of appendix D of this subpart.
(5) Programs certifying technicians must maintain records in accordance with section (g) of appendix D of this subpart.
(6) Starting January 1, 2018, programs certifying technicians, excluding Federally-run programs, must publish online a list of all technicians they have certified on or after January 1, 2017. Certifying organizations must update these lists at least annually.
(i) The list must include the first name, middle initial, and last name of the certified technician, the technician's city of residence when taking the test, the type(s) of certification received, and the date each certification was received.
(ii) Programs certifying technicians must provide notice to technicians that such information will be published online in compliance with any other Federal, state or local regulations, and allow technicians to opt out of being included in such lists.
(7) If an approved program violates any of the above requirements, the Administrator may revoke approval in accordance with § 82.169. In such cases, the Administrator must give notice to the organization setting forth the basis for the determination.
(c)
Test subject material.
A bank of test questions developed by the Administrator consists of groups, including a core group and technical groups. The Administrator will release this bank of questions only to approved technician certification programs. Each test for each type of certification must include at least 25 questions drawn from the core group and at least 25 questions drawn from each relevant technical group. These questions must address the subject areas in appendix D of this subpart.
[81 FR 82363, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 82.162
[Reserved]
§ 82.164
Reclaimer certification.
(a) All persons reclaiming used class I or II refrigerant or non-exempt substitute refrigerant for sale to a new owner must meet the following requirements:
(1) Reclaim such refrigerant to all the specifications in appendix A of this subpart (based on AHRI Standard 700-2016,
Specifications for Refrigerants
) that are applicable to that refrigerant;
(2) Verify that each batch of such refrigerant reclaimed meets these specifications using the analytical methodology prescribed in appendix A of this subpart, which includes the primary methodologies included in appendix A of AHRI Standard 700-2016;
(3) Release no more than 1.5 percent of the refrigerant during the reclamation process;
(4) Dispose of wastes from the reclamation process in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations; and
(5) Maintain records and submit reports in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) The owner or a responsible officer reclaiming used refrigerant for sale to a new owner, except for persons who properly certified under this section before May 11, 2004, must certify to the Administrator at the address in § 82.160(a) that they will meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section. The certification must include the name and address of the reclaimer and a list of equipment used to reclaim the refrigerant to the required standard, and to analyze the refrigerant to ensure it meets these specifications.
(c) Certificates are not transferable. In the event of a change in ownership of an entity which reclaims refrigerant, the new owner of the entity must certify with the Administrator within 30 days of the change that they will meet the reclaimer certification requirements. In the event of a change in business management, location, or contact information, the owner of the entity must notify EPA within 30 days of the change at the address in § 82.160(a).
(d)
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(1) Reclaimers must maintain records, by batch, of the results of the analysis conducted to verify that reclaimed refrigerant meets the necessary specifications in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) Reclaimers must maintain records of the names and addresses of persons sending them material for reclamation and the quantity of the material (the combined mass of refrigerant and contaminants) by refrigerant type sent to them for reclamation. Such records must be maintained on a transactional basis for three years.
(3) Reclaimers must report to the Administrator annually by February 1 of the next calendar year the total annual quantity of material (the combined mass of refrigerant and contaminants) by refrigerant type sent to them for reclamation, the total annual mass of each refrigerant reclaimed, and the total annual mass of waste products.
(e) Failure to abide by any of the provisions of this subpart may result in revocation or suspension of the certification of the reclaimer in accordance with § 82.169. In such cases, the Administrator must give notice to the organization setting forth the basis for the determination.
[81 FR 82364, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 82.166
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements for leak repair.
This section contains leak repair reporting and recordkeeping requirements that apply to owners and operators of appliances containing 50 or more pounds of class I or class II refrigerants until January 1, 2019. Starting January 1, 2019, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in the leak repair provisions in § 82.157(l) and (m) apply to owners and operators of appliances containing 50 or more pounds of class I or class II refrigerants or non-exempt substitutes.
(a)-(i) [Reserved]
(j) Persons servicing appliances normally containing 50 or more pounds of refrigerant must provide the owner/operator of such appliances with an invoice or other documentation, which indicates the amount of refrigerant added to the appliance.
(k) Owners/operators of appliances normally containing 50 or more pounds of refrigerant must keep servicing records documenting the date and type
of service, as well as the quantity of refrigerant added. The owner/operator must keep records of refrigerant purchased and added to such appliances in cases where owners add their own refrigerant. Such records should indicate the date(s) when refrigerant is added.
(l) [Reserved]
(m) All records required to be maintained pursuant to this section must be kept for a minimum of three years unless otherwise indicated.
(n) The owners or operators of appliances must maintain on-site and report to EPA Headquarters at the address listed in § 82.160 the information specified in paragraphs (n)(1), (n)(2), and (n)(3) of this section, within the timelines specified under § 82.156 (i)(1), (i)(2), (i)(3) and (i)(5) where such reporting or recordkeeping is required. This information must be relevant to the affected appliance.
(1) An initial report to EPA under § 82.156(i)(1)(i), (i)(2), or (i)(5)(i) regarding why more than 30 days are needed to complete repairs must include: Identification of the facility; the leak rate; the method used to determine the leak rate and full charge; the date a leak rate above the applicable leak rate was discovered; the location of leak(s) to the extent determined to date; any repair work that has been completed thus far and the date that work was completed; the reasons why more than 30 days are needed to complete the work and an estimate of when the work will be completed. If changes from the original estimate of when work will be completed result in extending the completion date from the date submitted to EPA, the reasons for these changes must be documented and submitted to EPA within 30 days of discovering the need for such a change.
(2) If the owners or operators intend to establish that the appliance's leak rate does not exceed the applicable allowable leak rate in accordance with § 82.156(i)(3)(v), the owner or operator must submit a plan to fix other outstanding leaks for which repairs are planned but not yet completed to achieve a rate below the applicable allowable leak rate. A plan to fix other outstanding leaks in accordance with § 82.156(i)(3)(v) must include the following information: The identification of the facility; the leak rate; the method used to determine the leak rate and full charge; the date a leak rate above the applicable allowable leak rate was discovered; the location of leak(s) to the extent determined to date; and any repair work that has been completed thus far, including the date that work was completed. Upon completion of the repair efforts described in the plan, a second report must be submitted that includes the date the owner or operator submitted the initial report concerning the need for additional time beyond the 30 days and notification of the owner or operator's determination that the leak rate no longer exceeds the applicable allowable leak rate. This second report must be submitted within 30 days of determining that the leak rate no longer exceeds the applicable allowable leak rate.
(3) Owners or operators must maintain records of the dates, types, and results of all initial and follow-up verification tests performed under § 82.156(i)(3). Owners or operators must submit this information to EPA within 30 days after conducting each test only where required under § 82.156 (i)(1), (i)(2), (i)(3) and (i)(5). These reports must also include: Identification and physical address of the facility; the leak rate; the method used to determine the leak rate and full charge; the date a leak rate above the applicable allowable leak rate was discovered; the location of leak(s) to the extent determined to date; and any repair work that has been completed thus far and the date that work was completed. Submitted reports must be dated and include the name of the owner or operator of the appliance, and must be signed by an authorized company official.
(o) The owners or operators of appliances must maintain on-site and report to EPA at the address specified in § 82.160 the following information where such reporting and recordkeeping is required and in the timelines specified in § 82.156 (i)(7) and (i)(8), in accordance with § 82.156 (i)(7) and (i)(8). This information must be relevant to the affected appliance and must include:
(1) The identification of the industrial process facility;
(2) The leak rate;
(3) The method used to determine the leak rate and full charge;
(4) The date a leak rate above the applicable allowable rate was discovered.
(5) The location of leaks(s) to the extent determined to date;
(6) Any repair work that has been completed thus far and the date that work was completed;
(7) A plan to complete the retrofit or retirement of the system;
(8) The reasons why more than one year is necessary to retrofit or retire the system;
(9) The date of notification to EPA; and
(10) An estimate of when retrofit or retirement work will be completed. If the estimated date of completion changes from the original estimate and results in extending the date of completion, the owner or operator must submit to EPA the new estimated date of completion and documentation of the reason for the change within 30 days of discovering the need for the change, and must retain a dated copy of this submission.
(p)(1) Owners or operators who wish to exclude purged refrigerants that are destroyed from annual leak rate calculations must maintain records on-site to support the amount of refrigerant claimed as sent for destruction. Records shall be based on a monitoring strategy that provides reliable data to demonstrate that the amount of refrigerant claimed to have been destroyed is not greater than the amount of refrigerant actually purged and destroyed and that the 98 percent or greater destruction efficiency is met. Records shall include flow rate, quantity or concentration of the refrigerant in the vent stream, and periods of purge flow.
(2) Owners or operators who wish to exclude purged refrigerants that are destroyed from annual leak rate calculations must maintain on-site and make available to EPA upon request the following information after the first time the exclusion is utilized by the facility:
(i) The identification of the facility and a contact person, including the address and telephone number;
(ii) A general description of the refrigerant appliance, focusing on aspects of the appliance relevant to the purging of refrigerant and subsequent destruction;
(iii) A description of the methods used to determine the quantity of refrigerant sent for destruction and type of records that are being kept by the owners or operators where the appliance is located;
(iv) The frequency of monitoring and data-recording; and
(v) A description of the control device, and its destruction efficiency.
This information must also be included, where applicable, in any reporting requirements required for compliance with the leak repair and retrofit requirements for industrial process refrigeration equipment, as set forth in paragraphs (n) and (o) of this section.
(q) Owners or operators choosing to determine the full charge as defined in § 82.156(j) of an affected appliance by using an established range or using that methodology in combination with other methods for determining the full charge as defined in § 82.156(j) must maintain the following information:
(1) The identification of the owner or operator of the appliance;
(2) The location of the appliance;
(3) The original range for the full charge of the appliance, its midpoint, and how the range was determined;
(4) Any and all revisions of the full charge range and how they were determined; and
(5) The dates such revisions occurred.
[58 FR 28712, May 14, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 42957, Aug. 19, 1994; 60 FR 40443, Aug. 8, 1995; 69 FR 11981, Mar. 12, 2004; 70 FR 1992, Jan. 11, 2005; 79 FR 64290, Oct. 28, 2014; 81 FR 82364, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 82.168
Incorporation by Reference.
(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this subpart part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You can obtain the material from the sources listed below. You may inspect a copy of the approved material at U.S. EPA's Air and Radiation Docket; EPA West Building, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030 or go to
http://
www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html
.
(b) Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute (AHRI), 2111 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 500, Arlington, VA 22201,
www.ahrinet.org
.
(1) AHRI Standard 110-2016,
2016 Standard for Air-Conditioning, Heating and Refrigerating Equipment Nameplate Voltages
, copyright 2016, into Appendix B3 to subpart F.
(2) 2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014,
2008 Appendix C for Analytical Procedures for AHRI Standard 700-2014
—
Normative
, copyright 2008, into Appendix A to subpart F.
(3) 2008 Appendix D to AHRI Standard 700-2014,
2012 Appendix D for Gas Chromatograms for AHRI Standard 700-2014—Informative
, copyright 2012, into Appendix A to subpart F.
(c) American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Inc., (ASHRAE), 1791 Tullie Circle NE., Atlanta, GA 30329, U.S.A.
(1) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 63.2-1996 (RA 2010),
Method of Testing Liquid-Line Filter Drier Filtration Capability,
Reaffirmed June 26, 2010, into Appendix B3 to subpart F.
(d) ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959,
www.astm.org
.
(1) ASTM D1296-01 (Reapproved 2012),
Standard Test Method for Odor of Volatile Solvents and Diluents
, approved July 1, 2012, into Appendix A to subpart F.
(2) [Reserved]
(e) Gas Processors Association, 6526 East 60th Street, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74145.
(1) GPA Standard STD-2177-13,
Analysis of Natural Gas Liquid Mixtures Containing Nitrogen and Carbon Dioxide by Gas Chromatography
, Revised, copyright 2013, into Appendix A to subpart F.
(2) [Reserved]
(f) General Services Administration, 301 7th St. SW., Washington, DC 20410.
(1) BB-F-1421B, Federal Specification for “Fluorocarbon Refrigerants,” dated March 5, 1982, IBR approved for Appendix A to subpart F.
(2) [Reserved]
(g) International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), 3, rue de Varembé, P.O. Box 131. CH-1211 Geneva 20—Switzerland, 41 22 919 02 11,
http://www.iec.ch
.
(1) IEC 60038,
IEC Standard Voltages
, Edition 7.0, 2009-06, into Appendix B3 to subpart F.
(2) [Reserved]
(h) Underwriters Laboratories (UL), 333 Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062, 847-272-8800,
http://www.ul.com
.
(1) UL 1963,
Standard for Safety Requirements for Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment
, Fourth Edition (with revisions through October 13, 2013), June 1, 2011, in appendix B3 to subpart F, appendix B4 to subpart F.
(2) [Reserved]
[81 FR 82364, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 82.169
Suspension and revocation procedures.
(a) Failure to abide by any of the provisions of this subpart may result in the revocation or suspension of the approval to certify technicians (under § 82.161), approval to act as a recovery/recycling equipment testing organization (under § 82.160), or reclaimer certification (under § 82.164), hereafter referred to as the “organization.” In such cases, the Administrator or her or his designated representative shall give notice of an impending suspension to the person or organization setting forth the facts or conduct that provide the basis for the revocation or suspension.
(b) Any organization that has received notice of an impending suspension or revocation may choose to request a hearing and must file that request in writing within 30 days of the date of the Agency's notice at the address listed in § 82.160 and shall set forth their objections to the revocation or suspension and data to support the objections.
(c) If the Agency does not receive a written request for a hearing within 30 days of the date of the Agency's notice, the revocation will become effective upon the date specified in the notice of an impending suspension.
(d) If after review of the request and supporting data, the Administrator or her or his designated representative finds that the request raises a substantial factual issue, she or he shall provide the organization with a hearing.
(e) After granting a request for a hearing the Administrator or her or his designated representative shall designate a Presiding Officer for the hearing.
(f) The hearing shall be held as soon as practicable at a time and place determined by the Administrator, the designated representative, or the Presiding Officer.
(g) The Administrator or her or his designated representative may, at his or her discretion, direct that all argument and presentation of evidence be concluded within a specified period established by the Administrator or her or his designated representative. Said period may be no less than 30 days from the date that the first written offer of a hearing is made to the applicant. To expedite proceedings, the Administrator or her or his designated representative may direct that the decision of the Presiding Officer (who need not be the Administrator) shall be the final EPA decision.
(h) Upon appointment pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, the Presiding Officer will establish a hearing file. The file shall consist of the following:
(1) The notice issued by the Administrator under § 82.169(a);
(2) the request for a hearing and the supporting data submitted therewith;
(3) all documents relating to the request for certification and all documents submitted therewith; and
(4) correspondence and other data material to the hearing.
(i) The hearing file will be available for inspection by the petitioner at the office of the Presiding Officer.
(j) An applicant may appear in person or may be represented by counsel or by any other duly authorized representative.
(k) The Presiding Officer, upon the request of any party or at his or her discretion, may arrange for a pre-hearing conference at a time and place he or she specifies. Such pre-hearing conferences will consider the following:
(1) Simplification of the issues;
(2) Stipulations, admissions of fact, and the introduction of documents;
(3) Limitation of the number of expert witnesses;
(4) Possibility of agreement disposing of any or all of the issues in dispute; and
(5) Such other matters as may aid in the disposition of the hearing, including such additional tests as may be agreed upon by the parties.
(l) The results of the conference shall be reduced to writing by the Presiding Officer and made part of the record.
(m) Hearings shall be conducted by the Presiding Officer in an informal but orderly and expeditious manner. The parties may offer oral or written evidence, subject to the exclusion by the Presiding Officer of irrelevant, immaterial, and repetitious evidence.
(n) Witnesses will not be required to testify under oath. However, the Presiding Officer shall call to the attention of witnesses that their statements may be subject to the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 1001, which imposes penalties for knowingly making false statements or representations or using false documents in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States.
(o) Any witness may be examined or cross-examined by the Presiding Officer, the parties, or their representatives.
(p) Hearings shall be reported verbatim. Copies of transcripts of proceedings may be purchased by the petitioner from the reporter.
(q) All written statements, charts, tabulations, and similar data offered in evidence at the hearings shall, upon a showing satisfactory to the Presiding Officer of their authenticity, relevancy, and materiality, be received in evidence and shall constitute a part of the record.
(r) Oral argument may be permitted at the discretion of the Presiding Officer and shall be reported as part of the record unless otherwise ordered by the Presiding Officer.
(s) The Presiding Officer shall make an initial decision that shall include written findings and conclusions and the reasons or basis regarding all the material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record. The findings, conclusions, and written decision shall be provided to the parties and made a part of the record. The initial decision shall become the decision of
the Administrator without further proceedings, unless there is an appeal to the Administrator or motion for review by the Administrator within 20 days of the date the initial decision was filed.
(t) On appeal from or review of the initial decision, the Administrator or her or his designated representative shall have all the powers which he or she would have in making the initial decision, including the discretion to require or allow briefs, oral argument, the taking of additional evidence, or a remand to the Presiding Officer for additional proceedings. The decision by the Administrator or her or his designated representative shall include written findings and conclusions and the reasons or basis therefore on all the material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented on the appeal or considered in the review.
[68 FR 43809, July 24, 2003]
Pt. 82, Subpt. F, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart F of Part 82—Specifications for Refrigerants
This appendix is based on the Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute Standard 700-2016,
Specifications for Refrigerants.

# Section 1. Purpose
1.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this standard is to evaluate and accept/reject refrigerants regardless of source (
i.e.
, new, reclaimed and/or repackaged) for use in new and existing refrigeration and air-conditioning products as required under 40 CFR part 82.
1.1.1
Intent.
This standard is intended for the guidance of the industry including manufacturers, refrigerant reclaimers, repackagers, distributors, installers, servicemen, contractors and for consumers.
1.1.2
Review and Amendment.
This standard is subject to review and amendment as the technology advances.

# Section 2. Scope
2.1
Scope.
This standard specifies acceptable levels of contaminants (purity requirements) for various fluorocarbon and other refrigerants regardless of source and lists acceptable test methods. These refrigerants are as referenced in the ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 34 with Addenda:
2.1.1 Single-Component Fluorocarbon Refrigerants: R-11, R-12, R-13, R-22, R-23, R-32, R-113, R-114, R-115, R-116, R-123, R-124, R-125, R-134a, R-141b, R-142b, R-143a, R-152a, R-218, R-227ea, R-236fa, R-245fa, R-1233zd(E), R-1234yf, R-1234ze(E);
2.1.2 Single Component Hydrocarbon Refrigerants: R-50, R-170, R-E170, R-290, R-600, R-600a, R-601, R-601a, R-610, R-1150, R-1270;
2.1.3 Carbon Dioxide Refrigerant: R-744;
2.1.4 Zeotropic Blend Refrigerants: R-401A, R-401B, R-402A, R-402B, R-403A, R-403B, R-404A, R-405A, R-406A, R-407A, R-407B, R-407C, R-407D, R-407E, R-407F, R-408A, R-409A, R-409B, R-410A, R-410B, R-411A, R-411B, R-412A, R-413A, R-414A, R-414B, R-415A, R-415B, R-416A, R-417A, R-417B, R-417C, R-418A, R-419A, R-419B, R-420A, R-421A, R-421B, R-422A, R-422B, R-422C, R-422D, R-422E, R-423A, R-424A, R-425A, R-426A, R-427A, R-428A, R-429A, R-430A, R-431A, R-434A, R-435A, R-437A, R-438A, R-439A, R-440A, R-442A, R-444A, R-444B, R-445A, R-446A, R-447A, R-448A, R-449A, R-450A;
2.1.5 Zeotropic Hydrocarbon Blend Refrigerants: R-432A, R-433A, R-433B, R-433C, R-436A, R-436B, R-441A, R-443A; and
2.1.6 Azeotropic Blend Refrigerants: R-500, R-502, R-503, R-507A, R-508A, R-508B, R-509A, R-510A, R-511A, and R-512A.

# Section 3. Definitions
3.1
Definitions.
All terms in this appendix will follow the definitions in § 82.152 unless otherwise defined in this appendix.
3.2
Shall, Should, Recommended,
or
It Is Recommended
shall be interpreted as follows:
3.2.1
Shall.
Where “shall” or “shall not” is used for a provision specified, that provision is mandatory if compliance with this appendix is claimed.
3.2.2
Should, Recommended,
or
It is Recommended
is used to indicate provisions which are not mandatory but which are desirable as good practice.

# Section 4. Characterization of Refrigerants and Contaminants
4.1
Characterization.
Characterization of single component fluorocarbon (Table 1A) and zeotropic/azeotropic blend (Table 2A/3) refrigerants and contaminants are listed in the following general classifications:
4.1.1 Isomer content (see Table 1A)
4.1.2 Air and other non-condensables (see Tables 1A, 2A, 3)
4.1.3 Water (see Tables 1A, 2A, 3)
4.1.4 All other volatile impurities (see Tables 1A, 2A, 3)
4.1.5 High boiling residue (see Tables 1A, 2A, 3)
4.1.6 Halogenated unsaturated volatile impurities (see Table 1A)
4.1.7 Particulates/solids (see Tables 1A, 2A, 3)
4.1.8 Acidity (see Tables 1A, 2A, 3)
4.1.9 Chloride (see Tables 1A, 2A, 3)
4.2 Hydrocarbon Characterization. Characterization of hydrocarbon refrigerants (Tables 1B and 2B) and contaminants are listed in the following general classifications:
4.2.1 Nominal composition
4.2.2 Other allowable impurities
4.2.3 Air and other non-condensables
4.2.4 Sulfur odor
4.2.5 High boiling residue
4.2.6 Particulates/solids
4.2.7 Acidity
4.2.8 Water
4.2.9 All other volatile impurities
4.2.10 Total C3, C4, and C5 polyolefins
4.3
Carbon Dioxide Characterization.
Characterization of carbon dioxide (Table 1C) and its contaminants are listed in the following general classifications:
4.3.1 Purity
4.3.2 Air and other non-condensables
4.3.3 Water
4.3.4 High boiling residue
4.3.5 Particulates/solids

# Section 5. Sampling and Summary of Test Procedures
5.1
Referee Test.
The referee test methods for the various contaminants are summarized in the following paragraphs. Detailed test procedures are included in
2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014
(incorporated by reference, see § 82.168). If alternative test methods are employed, the user must be able to demonstrate that they produce results at least equivalent to the specified referee test method.
5.2
Refrigerant Sampling
5.2.1
Sampling Precautions.
Special precautions should be taken to ensure that representative samples are obtained for analysis. Sampling shall be done by qualified personnel following accepted sampling and safety procedures. Refrigerants with critical temperatures near or below ambient temperature cannot be reliably sampled for both liquid and vapor phase without special handling.
Note:
Flammable refrigerants which are ASHRAE 34 class 2L, 2, or 3 present additional safety challenges and require additional measures for sampling safety procedures compared to nonflammable halocarbons documented in this standard.
5.2.2
Cylinder Preparation.
Place a clean, empty sample cylinder with the valve open in an oven at 110 °C (230 °F) for one hour. Remove it from the oven while hot, immediately connect it to an evacuation system and evacuate to less than 56 kPa. Close the valve and allow it to cool. Weigh the empty cylinder.
5.2.3
Vapor Phase Sampling.
A vapor phase sample shall be obtained for determining the non-condensables. The source temperature shall be measured and recorded at the time the sample is taken.
5.2.3.1
Special Handling for Low Critical Temperature Refrigerant.
A vapor phase sample is required to determine non-condensables and volatile impurities, including other refrigerants. The vapor phase sample is obtained by regulating the sample container temperature to 5 K or more above the refrigerant critical temperature.
5.2.3.2
Handling for Liquid Refrigerants with Boiling Points Near or Above Room Temperature.
Since R-11, R-113, R-123, R-141b, R-245fa, and R-1233zd(E) have normal boiling points near or above room temperature, non-condensable determination is not required for these refrigerants.
Note:
Non-condensable gases, if present, will concentrate in the vapor phase of the refrigerant; care must be exercised to eliminate introduction of either air or liquid phase refrigerant during the sample transfer.
5.2.4
Liquid Phase Sampling.
A liquid phase sample is required for all tests listed in this standard except the test for non-condensables.
5.2.4.1
Liquid Sampling.
Accurate analysis requires that the sample cylinder, at ambient temperature, be filled to at least 60 percent by volume; however, under no circumstances should the cylinder be filled to more than 80 percent by volume. This can be accomplished by weighing the empty cylinder and then the cylinder with refrigerant. When the desired amount of refrigerant has been collected, close the valve(s) and immediately disconnect the sample cylinder.
Note:
Care should be taken to ensure that all connections and transfer lines are dry and evacuated to avoid contaminating the sample.
Note:
Low critical temperature refrigerants can have extremely high pressure and the sampling vessel, all connections, and transfer lines must be designed to handle high pressures.
5.2.4.2
Special Handling for Low Critical Temperature Refrigerant.
A liquid phase sample is required for all testing except volatile impurities, including other refrigerants. The liquid phase sample is obtained by regulating the sample cylinder temperature to 2 °C below the critical temperature of the refrigerant.
Note:
If free water is present in the sample, cooling to below 0 °C may result in the formation of ice. Clathrates may form at temperatures above 0 °C with some fluorocarbon refrigerants.
5.2.4.3
Record Weight.
Check the sample cylinder for leaks and record the gross weight.
5.3
Refrigerant Identification.
The required method shall be gas chromatography (GC) as described in
2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014
(incorporated by reference, see § 82.168) with the corresponding gas chromatogram figures as illustrated in
2012 Appendix D to AHRI Standard 700-2014
(incorporated by reference, see § 82.168). The chromatogram of the sample shall be compared to known standards.
5.3.2
Alternative Method.
Determination of the boiling point and boiling point range is
an acceptable alternative test method which can be used to characterize refrigerants. The test method shall be that described in section 4.4.3 of BB-F-1421B (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
5.3.3
Required Values.
The required values for boiling point and boiling point range are given in Table 1A,
Physical Properties of Single Component Refrigerants
; Table 1B,
Physical Properties of Zeotropic Blends (400 Series Refrigerants)
; and Table 1C,
Physical Properties of Azeotropic Blends (500 Series Refrigerants).
5.4
Water Content.
5.4.1
Method.
The Coulometric Karl Fischer Titration shall be the primary test method for determining the water content of refrigerants. This method is described in
2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014
(incorporated by reference, see § 82.168). This method can be used for refrigerants that are either a liquid or a gas at room temperature. For all refrigerants, the sample for water analysis shall be taken from the liquid phase of the container to be tested.
5.4.2
Limits.
The value for water content shall be expressed in parts per million (ppm) by weight and shall not exceed the maximum specified in Tables 1A, 1B, 1C, 2A, 2B, and 3.
5.5
Conductivity.
(Alternative to chloride and acidity tests).
5.5.1
Method.
A refrigerant may be tested for conductivity as an indication of the presence of acids, metal chlorides, and any compound that ionizes in water. This alternative procedure is intended for use with new or reclaimed refrigerants, however, significant amounts of oil can interfere with the test results.
5.5.2
Limits.
The value for conductivity shall be converted to and expressed in ppm by weight calculated as HCl and shall be compared with the maximum acidity value specified (see in Tables 1A, 1B, 1C, 2A, 2B, and 3). If the conductivity is above this amount, then the chloride and acidity tests shall be conducted. If the conductivity is not greater than this amount, then the chloride and acidity tests may be omitted.
5.6
Chloride.
The refrigerant shall be tested for chloride as an indication of the presence of hydrochloric acid and/or metal chlorides. The referee procedure is intended for use with new or reclaimed halogenated refrigerants; however, high boiling residue in excess of the amounts in Tables 1A, 1B, 1C, 2A, 2B, and 3 can interfere with the test results.
5.6.1
Method.
The test method shall be that described in
2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014
(incorporated by reference, see § 82.168). The test will show noticeable turbidity at chloride levels of about 3 ppm or greater by weight.
5.5.2
Limits.
The results of the test shall not exhibit any sign of turbidity. Report the results as “pass” or “fail.”
5.7
Acidity.
5.7.1
Method.
The acidity test uses the titration principle to detect any compound that is soluble in water and ionizes as an acid. The test method shall be that described in
2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014
(incorporated by reference, see § 82.168). This test may not be suitable for determination of high molecular weight organic acids; however these acids will be found in the high boiling residue test outlined in Section 5.8. The test requires a 50 to 60 gram sample and has a detection limit of 0.1 ppm by weight calculated as HCl.
5.7.2
Limits.
The value for acidity shall be expressed in ppm by weight as HCl and shall not exceed the limits in Tables 1A, 1B, 2A, 2B, and 3.
5.8
High Boiling Residue.
5.8.1
Method.
High boiling residue shall be determined by either volume or weight. The volume method measures the residue from a standard volume of refrigerant after evaporation. The gravimetric method is described in
2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014
(incorporated by reference, see § 82.168). Oils and/or organic acids will be captured by these methods.
5.8.2
Limits.
The value for high boiling residue shall be expressed as a percentage by volume or weight and shall not exceed the maximum percent specified in Tables 1A, 1B, 1C, 2A, 2B, and 3.
5.9
Particulates and Solids.
5.9.1
Method.
A measured amount of sample shall be placed in a Goetz bulb under controlled temperature conditions. The particulates/solids shall be determined by visual examination of the Goetz bulb prior to the evaporation of refrigerant. For details of this test method, refer to Part 3 of
2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014
(incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
Note:
R-744 will partially sublimate when measuring a known amount of liquid sample into the dry Goetz bulb and the solid R-744 will interfere with the visual examination of particulates/solids. Determining the particulates/solids shall be completed by visual examination of the Goetz bulb after the evaporation of the refrigerant.
5.9.2
Limits.
Visual presence of dirt, rust, or other particulate contamination is reported as “fail.”
5.10
Non-Condensables.
5.10.1
Method.
A vapor phase sample shall be used for determination of non-condensables. Non-condensable gases consist primarily of air accumulated in the vapor phase of refrigerants where the solubility of air in the refrigerant liquid phase is extremely low and air is not significant as a liquid phase contaminant. The presence of non-condensable gases may reflect poor quality control in transferring refrigerants to storage tanks and cylinders.
The test method shall be gas chromatography with a thermal conductivity detector as described in
2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014
(incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
5.10.2
Limits.
The maximum level of non-condensables in the vapor phase of a test sample shall not exceed the maximum at 25 °C as shown in Tables 1A, 1B, 1C, 2A, 2B, and 3.
5.11
All Other Volatile Impurities and/or Other Refrigerants.
5.11.1
Method.
The amount of volatile impurities including other refrigerants in the subject refrigerant shall be determined by gas chromatography as described in
2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014
(incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
5.11.2
Limits.
The test sample shall not contain more than 0.5 percent by weight of volatile impurities including other refrigerants as shown in Tables 1A, 1B, 1C, 2A, 2B and 3.
5.12
Total C
3
, C
4
and C
5
Polyolefins in Hydrocarbon Refrigerants.
5.12.1
Method.
The amount of polyolefin impurities in the hydrocarbon shall be determined by gas chromatography as described in GPA Standard 2177-13 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
5.12.2
Limits.
The test sample shall not contain more than 0.05 percent by weight in the hydrocarbon sample as shown in Tables 1B and 2B. Report the results as “pass” or “fail.”
5.13
Sulfur Odor in Hydrocarbon Refrigerants.
5.13.1
Method.
The amount of sulfur containing compounds or other compounds with an odor shall be determined by ASTM D1296-01 (Reapproved 2012) (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
5.13.2
Limits.
The test sample paper shall not emit a residual sulfur odor as shown in Tables 1B and 2B.

# Section 6. Reporting Procedure
6.1
Reporting Procedure.
The source (manufacturer, reclaimer, or repackager) of the packaged refrigerant shall be identified. The refrigerant shall be identified by its accepted refrigerant number and/or its chemical name. Maximum allowable levels of contaminants are shown in Tables 1A, 1B, 1C, 2A, 2B, and 3. Test results shall be tabulated in a similar manner.
ER18NO16.078
ER18NO16.079
ER18NO16.080
ER18NO16.081
ER18NO16.082
ER18NO16.083
ER18NO16.084
ER18NO16.085
ER18NO16.086
ER18NO16.087
ER18NO16.088
ER18NO16.089
ER18NO16.090
ER18NO16.091
ER18NO16.092

# Section 7.0 References—Normative
Listed here are all standards, handbooks, and other publications essential to the formation and implementation of the standard. All references in this appendix are considered as part of this standard.
ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 34-2013,
Designation and Safety Classification of Refrigerants,
with Addenda, American National Standards Institute/American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers.
2008 Appendix C to AHRI Standard 700-2014,
2008 Appendix C for Analytical Procedures for AHRI Standard 700-2014—Normative,
copyright 2008 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
ASTM D1296-01 (Reapproved 2012),
Standard Test Method for Odor of Volatile Solvents and Diluents,
approved July 1, 2012, (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
BB-F-1421B, Federal Specification for “Fluorocarbon Refrigerants,” dated March 5, 1982, (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
GPA Standard 2177-13,
Analysis of Natural Gas Liquid Mixtures Containing Nitrogen and Carbon Dioxide by Gas Chromatography, Revised,
copyright 2013, (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
REFPROP Reference Fluid Thermodynamic and Transport Properties
NIST Standard Reference Database 23 version 9.1,
2013, U.S. Department of Commerce, Technology Administration, National Institute of Standards and Technology.

# Section 8.0 References—Informative
Listed here are standards, handbooks, and other publications which may provide useful information and background but are not considered essential.
2012 Appendix D to AHRI Standard 700-2014,
2012 Appendix D for Gas Chromatograms for AHRI Standard 700-2014—Informative,
copyright 2012, (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
[81 FR 82365, Nov. 18, 2016]
Pt. 82, Subpt. F, App. A1

# Appendix A1 to Subpart F of Part 82—Generic Maximum Contaminant Levels
Contaminant
Reporting units
Air and Other Non-condensables
1.5% by volume @ 25 °C (N/A for refrigerants used in low-pressure appliances
1
).
Water
10 ppm by weight 20 ppm by weight (for refrigerants used in low-pressure appliances
1
).
Other Impurities Including Refrigerant
0.50% by weight.
High boiling residue
0.01% by volume.
Particulates/solids
visually clean to pass.
Acidity
1.0 ppm by weight.
Chlorides (chloride level for pass/fail is 3ppm)
No visible turbidity.
1
Low-pressure appliances means an appliance that uses a refrigerant with a liquid phase saturation pressure below 45 psia at 104 °F.
Blend Compositions (Where Applicable)
Nominal
composition
(by weight%)
Allowable
composition
(by weight%)
Component constitutes 25% or more
±2.0
Component constitutes less than 25% but greater than 10%
±1.0
Component constitutes less than or equal to 10%
±0.5
[69 FR 11988, Mar. 12, 2004]
Pt. 82, Subpt. F, App. B1

# Appendix B1 to Subpart F of Part 82—Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling and/or Reclaim Equipment
This appendix is based on the Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute Standard 740-1993.

# Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment

# Section 1. Purpose
1.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this standard is to establish methods of testing for rating and evaluating the performance of refrigerant recovery, and/or recycling equipment, and general equipment requirements (herein referred to as “equipment”) for containment or purity levels, capacity, speed, and purge loss to minimize emission into the atmosphere of designated refrigerants.
1.1.1 This standard is intended for the guidance of the industry, including manufacturers, refrigerant reclaimers, repackers, distributors, installers, servicemen, contractors and for consumers.
1.1.2 This standard is not intended to be used as a guide in defining maximum levels of contaminants in recycled or reclaimed refrigerants used in various applications.
1.2
Review and Amendment.
This standard is subject to review and amendment as the technology advances.

# Section 2. Scope
2.1
Scope.
This standard defines general equipment requirements and the test apparatus, test mixtures, sampling and analysis techniques that will be used to determine the performance of recovery and/or recycling equipment for various refrigerants including R11, R12, R13, R22, R113, R114, R123, R134a, R500, R502, and R503, as referenced in the ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 34-1992, “Number Designation of Refrigerants” (American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers, Inc.).

# Section 3. Definitions
3.1
Recovered refrigerant.
Refrigerant that has been removed from a system for the purpose of storage, recycling, reclamation or transportation.
3.2 Recover. Reference 40 CFR 82.152.
3.3 Recycle. Reference 40 CFR 82.152.
3.4 Reclaim. Reference 40 CFR 82.152.
3.5
Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Sample.
A mixture of new and/or reclaimed refrigerant and specified quantities of identified contaminants which are representative of field obtained, used refrigerant samples and which constitute the mixture to be processed by the equipment under test.
3.6
Push/Pull Method.
The push/pull refrigerant recovery method is defined as the process of transferring liquid refrigerant from a refrigeration system to a receiving vessel by lowering the pressure in the vessel and raising the pressure in the system, and by connecting a separate line between the system liquid port and the receiving vessel.
3.7
Recycle Rate.
The amount of refrigerant processed (in pounds) divided by the time elapsed in the recycling mode in pounds per minute. For equipment which uses a separate recycling sequence, the recycle rate does not include the recovery rate (or elapsed time). For equipment which does not use a separate recycling sequence, the recycle rate is a maximum rate based solely on the higher of the liquid or vapor recovery rate, by which the rated contaminant levels can be achieved.
3.8
Equipment Classification.
3.8.1
Self Contained Equipment.
A refrigerant recovery or recycling system which is capable of refrigerant extraction without the assistance of components contained within an air conditioning or refrigeration system.
3.8.2
System Dependent Equipment.
Refrigerant recovery equipment which requires for its operation the assistance of components contained in an air conditioning or refrigeration system.
3.9
“Shall”, “Should”, “Recommended”
or
“It is Recommended”,
“Shall” “Should”, “recommended”, or “it is recommended” shall be interpreted as follows:
3.9.1
Shall.
Where “shall” or “shall not” is used for a provision specified, that provision is mandatory if compliance with the standard is claimed.
3.9.2
Should, Recommended,
or
It is Recommended,
“Should”, “recommended”, is used to indicate provisions which are not mandatory but which are desirable as good practice.

# Section 4. General Equipment Requirements
4.1 The equipment manufacturer shall provide operating instructions, necessary maintenance procedures, and source information for replacement parts and repair.
4.2 The equipment shall indicate when any filter/drier(s) needs replacement. This requirement can be met by use of a moisture transducer and indicator light, by use of a sight glass/moisture indicator, or by some measurement of the amount of refrigerant processed such as a flow meter or hour meter. Written instructions such as “to change the filter every 400 pounds, or every 30 days” shall not be acceptable except for equipment in large systems where the Liquid Recovery Rate is greater than 25 lbs/min [11.3 Kg/min] where the filter/drier(s) would be changed for every job.
4.3 The equipment shall either automatically purge non-condensables if the rated level is exceeded or alert the operator that the non-condensable level has been exceeded. While air purge processes are subject to the requirements of this section, there is no specific requirement to include an air purge process for “recycle” equipment.
4.4 The equipment's refrigerant loss due to non-condensable purging shall not be exceeded 5% by weight of total recovered refrigerant. (See Section 9.4)
4.5 Internal hose assemblies shall not exceed a permeation rate of 12 pounds mass per square foot [5.8 g/cm
2
] of internal surface per year at a temperature of 120 F [48.8 °C] for any designated refrigerant.
4.6 The equipment shall be evaluated at 75 F [24 °C] per 7.1. Normal operating conditions range from 50 °F to 104 F [10 °C to 40 °C].
4.7
Exemptions:
4.7.1 Equpment intended for recovery only shall be exempt from sections 4.2 and 4.3.
Table 1—Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Samples
R11
R12
R13
R22
R113
R114
R123
R134a
R500
R502
R503
Moisture content:
PPM by weight of pure refrigerant
100
80
30
200
100
85
100
200
200
200
30
Particulate content:
PPM by weight of pure refrigerant characterized by
1
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
Acid content:
PPM by weight of pure refrigerant—(mg KOH per kg refrig.) characterized by
2
500
100
NA
500
400
200
500
100
100
100
NA
Mineral oil content:
% by weight of pure refrigerant
20
5
NA
5
20
20
20
5
5
5
NA
Viscosity (SUS)
300
150
300
300
300
300
150
150
150
Non condensable gases air content % volume
3
NA
3
3
3
NA
3
3
3
3
3
3
1
Particulate content shall consist of inert materials and shall comply with particulate requirements in
ASHRAE
Standard 63.2, “Method of Testing of Filtration Capacity of Refrigerant Liquid Line Filters and Filter Driers.”
2
Acid consists of 60% oleic acid and 40% hydrochloric acid on a total number basis.
3
Synthetic ester based oil.

# Section 5. Contaminated Refrigerants
5.1 The standard contaminated refrigerant sample shall have the characteristics specified in Table 1, except as provided in 5.2
5.2 Recovery equipment not rated for any specific contaminant can be tested with new or reclaimed refrigerant.

# Section 6. Test Apparatus
6.1 Self Contained Equipment Test Apparatus. The apparatus as shown in Figure 1 consists of a 3 cubic foot [0.085 m
3
] mixing chamber with a conical-shaped bottom, although a larger mixing chamber is permissible. The size of the mixing chamber depends upon the size of the equipment. The outlet at the bottom of the cone and all restrictions and valves for liquid and vapor refrigerant lines in the test apparatus shall be a minimum of 0.375 in. [9.5 mm] inside diameter or equivalent. The minimum inside diameter for large equipment for use on chillers shall be 1.5 in. [38 mm.]. The mixing chamber shall contain various ports for receiving liquid refrigerant, oil, and contaminants. A recirculating line connected from the bottom outlet through a recirculating pump and then to a top vapor port shall be provided for stirring of the mixture. Isolation valves may be required for the pump. Alternative stirring means may be used if demonstrated to be equally effective.
6.1.1 For liquid refrigerant feed, the liquid valve is opened. For vapor refrigerant feed, the vapor valve is opened and refrigerant passes through an evaporator coil. Flow is controlled by a thermostatic expansion valve to create 5 F [3 °C] superheat at an evaporator temperature of 70 F ±3 F[21 °C±2°]. The evaporator coil or equivalent evaporator means shall be either sized large enough for the largest system or be sized for each system.
6.1.2 An alternative method for vapor refrigerant feed is to pass through a boiler and then an automatic pressure regulating valve set at refrigerant saturation pressure at 75 F ±3 F [24 °C ±2 °C].
6.2 System Dependent Equipment Test Apparatus. This test apparatus is to be used for final recovery vacuum rating of all system dependent equipment.
6.2.1 The test apparatus shown in Figure 2 consists of a complete refrigeration system. The manufacturer shall identify the refrigerants to be tested. The test apparatus can be modified to facilitate operation or testing of the system dependent equipment if the modifications to the apparatus are specifically described within the manufacturer's literature. (
See Figure 2.
) A
1/4
inch [6.3 mm] balance line shall be connected across the test apparatus between the high and low pressure sides, with an isolation valve located at the connection to the compressor high side. A
1/4
inch [6.3 mm] access port with a valve core shall be located in the balance line for the purpose of measuring final recovery vacuum at the conclusion of the test.
EC01MY92.107
EC01MY92.108

# Section 7. Performance Testing
7.1 Contaminant removal and performance testing shall be conducted at 75 F ±2 F [23.9 °C ±1.1 °C].
7.1.1 The equipment shall be prepared for operation per the instruction manual.
7.1.2 The contaminated sample batch shall consist of not less than the sum of the amounts required to complete steps 7.1.2.2 and 7.1.2.3 below.
7.1.2.1 A liquid sample shall be drawn from the mixing chamber prior to starting the test to assure quality control of the mixing process.
7.1.2.2 Vapor refrigerant feed testing, if elected, shall normally be processed first. After the equipment reaches stabilized conditions of condensing temperature and/or storage tank pressure, the vapor feed recovery rate shall be measured. One method is to start measuring the vapor refrigerant recovery rate when 85% of refrigerant remains in the mixing chamber and continue for a period of time sufficient to achieve the accuracy in 9.2. If liquid feed is not elected, complete Step 7.1.2.4.
7.1.2.3 Liquid refrigerant feed testing, if elected, shall be processed next. After the equipment reaches stabilized conditions, the liquid feed recovery rate shall be measured. One method is to wait 2 minutes after starting liquid feed and then measure the liquid refrigerant recovery rate for a period of time sufficient to achieve the accuracy in 9.1. Continue liquid recovery operation as called for in 7.1.2.4.
7.1.2.4 Continue recovery operation until all liquid is removed from the mixing chamber and vapor is removed to the point where the equipment shuts down per automatic means or is manually stopped per the operating instructions.
7.1.2.5 After collecting the first contaminated refrigerant sample batch, the liquid and vapor value of the apparatus shall be closed and the mixing chamber pressure recorded after 1 minute as required in 9.5. After preparing a second contaminated refrigerant sample batch, continue recovery until the storage container reaches 80% liquid fill level. After recycling and measuring
the recycle rate per section 7.1.3, set this container aside for the vapor sample in 8.2.2.
7.1.2.6 Interruptions in equipment operations as called for in instruction manual are allowable.
7.1.3 Recycle as called for in equipment operating instructions. Determine recycle rate by appropriate means as required in 9.3.
7.1.4 Repeat steps 7.1.2, 7.1.2.4, and 7.1.3 with contaminated refrigerant sample until equipment indicator(s) show need to change filter(s). It will not be necessary to repeat the recycle rate determination in 7.1.3.
7.1.4.1 For equipment with a multiple pass recirculating filter system, analyze the contents of the previous storage container.
7.1.4.2 For equipment with a single pass filter system, analyze the contents of the current storage container.
7.1.5 Refrigerant loss due to the equipment's non-condensable gas purge shall be determined by appropriate means. (See Section 9.4.)
7.2 System Dependent Equipment. This procedure shall be used for vacuum rating of all system dependent equipment. Liquid refrigerant recovery rate, vapor refrigerant recovery rate, and recycle rate are not tested on system dependent systems.
7.2.1 The apparatus operation and testing shall be conducted at 75 F ±2 F. [23.9 °C. ±/1.1. °C.].
7.2.2 The apparatus shall be charged with refrigerant per its system design specifications.
7.2.3 For measurement of final recovery vacuum as required in 9.5, first shut the balance line isolation valve and wait 1 minute for pressure to balance. Then connect and operate the recovery system per manufacturers recommendations. When the evacuation is completed, open the balance line isolation valve and measure the pressure in the balance line.

# Section 8. Sampling and Chemical Analysis Methods
8.1 The referee test methods for the various contaminants are summarized in the following paragraphs. Detailed test procedures are included in Appendix A “Test Procedures for ARI STD 700.” If alternate test methods are employed, the user must be able to demonstrate that they produce results equivalent to the specified referee method.
8.2
Refrigerant Sampling.
8.2.1
Sampling Precautions.
Special precautions should be taken to assure that representative samples are obtained for analysis. Sampling shall be done by trained laboratory personnel following accepted sampling and safety procedures.
8.2.2
Gas Phase Sample.
A gas phase sample shall be obtained for determining the non-condensables. Since non-condensable gases, if present, will concentrate in the vapor phase of the refrigerant, care must be exercised to eliminate introduction of air during the sample transfer. Purging is not and acceptable procedure for a gas phase sample since it may introduce a foreign product. Since R11, R113 and R123 have normal boiling points at or above room temperature, noncondensable determination is not required for these refrigerants.
8.2.2.1 The sample cylinder shall be connected to an evacuated gas sampling bulb by means of a manifold. The manifold should have a valve arrangement that facilitates evacuation of all connecting tubing leading to the sampling bulb.
8.2.2.2 After the manifold has been evacuated, close the valve to the pump and open the valve on the system. Allow the pressure to equilibrate and close valves.
8.2.3
Liquid Phase Sample.
A liquid phase sample is required for all tests listed in this standard, except the test for non-condensables.
8.2.3.1 Place an empty sample cylinder with the valve open in an oven at 230 F [110 °C] for one hour. Remove it from the oven while hot, immediately connect to an evacuation system and evacuate to less than 1mm. mercury (1000 microns). Close the valve and allow it to cool.
8.2.3.2 The valve and lines from the unit to be sampled shall be clean and dry. Connect the line to the sample cylinder loosely. Purge through the loose connection. Make the connection tight at the end of the purge period. Take the sample as a liquid by chilling the sample cylinder slightly. Accurate analysis requires that the sample container be filled to at least 60% by volume; however under no circumstances should the cylinder be filled to more than 80% by volume. This can be accomplished by weighing the empty cylinder and then the cylinder with refrigerant. When the desired amount of refrigerant has been collected, close the valve(s) and disconnect the sample cylinder immediately.
8.2.3.3 Check the sample cylinder for leaks and record the gross weight.
8.3
Water Content.
8.3.1. The Coulometric Karl Fischer Titration shall be the primary test method for determining the water content of refrigerants. This method is described in Appendix A. This method can be used for refrigerants that are either a liquid or a gas at room temperature, including Refrigerants 11 and 13. For all refrigerants, the sample for water analysis shall be taken from the liquid phase of the container to be tested. Proper operation of the analytical method requires special equipment and an experienced operator. The precision of the results is excellent if proper sampling and handling procedures are followed. Refrigerants containing a colored dye can be successfully analyzed for water using this method.
8.3.2 The Karl Fischer Test Method is an acceptable alternative test method for determining the water content of refrigerants. This method is described in ASTM Standard for “Water in gases Using Karl Fisher Reagent” E700-79, reapproved 1984 (American Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia, PA).
8.3.3 Report the moisture level in parts per million by weight if a sample is required.
8.4
Chloride.
The refrigerant shall be tested for chlorides as an indication of the presence of hydrochloric or similar acids. The recommended procedure is intended for use with new or reclaimed refrigerants. Significant amounts of oil may interfere with the results by indicating a failure in the absence of chlorides.
8.4.1 The test method shall be that described in Appendix A “Test Procedures for ARI-700.” The test will show noticeable turbidity at equivalent chloride levels of about 3 ppm by weight or higher.
8.4.2 The results of the test shall not exhibit any sign of turbity. Report results as “pass” or “fail.”
8.5
Acidity.
8.5.1 The acidity test uses the titration principle to detect any compound that is highly soluble in water and ionizes as an acid. The test method shall be that described in Appendix A. “Test Procedures for ARI-700.” The test may not be suitable for determination of high molecular weight organic acids; however these acids will be found in the high boiling residue test outlined in Section 5.7. The test requires about a 100 to 120 gram sample and has a low detection limit of 0.1 ppm by weight as HC1.
8.6 High Boiling Residue.
8.6.1 High boiling residue will be determined by measuring the residue of a standard volume of refrigerant after evaporation. The refrigerant sample shall be evaporated at room temperature or a temperature 50 F [10°.0C], above the boiling point of the sample using a Goetz tube as specified in Appendix A “Test Procedures for ARI-700.” Oils and or organic acids will be captured by this method.
8.6.2 The value for high boiling residue shall be expressed as a percentage by volume.
8.7 Particulates/Solids.
8.7.1 A measured amount of sample is evaporated from a Goetz bulb under controlled temperature conditions. The particulates/solids shall be determined by visual examination of the empty Goetz bulb after the sample has evaporated completely. Presence of dirt, rust or other particulate contamination is reported a “fail.” For details of this test method, refer to Appendix B “Test Procedures for ARI-700.”
8.8 Non-Condensables
8.8.1 A vapor phase sample shall be used for determination of non-condensables. Non-condensable gases consist primarily of air accumulated in the vapor phase of refrigerant containing tanks. The solubility of air in the refrigerants liquid phase is extremely low and air is not significant as a liquid phase contaminant. The presence of non-condensable gases may reflect poor quality control in transferring refrigerants to storage tanks and cylinders.
8.8.2 The test method shall be gas chromatography with a thermal conductivity detector as described in Appendix A “Test Procedures for ARI-700.”
8.8.2.1 The Federal Specification for “Fluorocarbon Refrigerants,” BB-F-1421B, dated March 5, 1992, section 4.4.2 (perchloroethylene method) is an acceptable alternate test method.
8.8.3 Report the level of non-condensable as percent by volume.

# Section 9. Performance Calculation and Rating
9.1 The liquid refrigerant recovery rate shall be expressed in pounds per minute [kg/min] and measured by weight change at the mixing chamber (See Figure 1) divided by elapsed time to an accuracy within .02 lbs/min. [.009 kg/min]. Ratings using the Push/Pull method shall be identified “Push/Pull”. Equipment may be rated by both methods.
9.2 The vapor refrigerant recovery rate shall be expressed in pounds per minute [kg/min] and measured by weight change at the mixing chamber (See Figure 1) divided by elapsed time to an accuracy within .02 lbs/min. [.0.009 kg/min].
9.3 The recycle rate is defined in 3.7 and expressed in pounds per minute [kg/min] of flow and shall be per ASHRAE 41.7-84 “Procedure For Fluid Measurement Of Gases” or ASHRAE 41.8-89 “Standard Method of Flow of Fluids—Liquids.”
9.3.1 For equipment using multipass recycling or a separate sequence, the recycle rate shall be determined by dividing the net weight W of the refrigerant to be recycled by the actual time T required to recycle the refrigerant. Any set-up or operator interruptions shall not be included in the time T. The accuracy of the recycle rate shall be within .02 lbs/min. [.009 kg/min].
9.3.2 If no separate recycling sequence is used, the recycle rate shall be the higher of the vapor refrigerant recovery rate or the liquid refrigerant recovery rate. The recycle rate shall match a process which leads to contaminant levels in 9.6. Specifically, a recovery rate determined from bypassing a contaminant removal device cannot be used as a recycle rate when the contaminant levels in 9.6 are determined by passing the refrigerant through the containment removal device.
9.4 Refrigerant loss due to non-condensable purging shall be less than 5%. This rating shall be expressed as “passed” if less than 5%.
This calculation will be based upon net loss of non-condensables and refrigerant due to the purge divided by the initial net content. The net loss shall be determined by weighing before and after the purge, by collecting purged gases, or an equivalent method.
9.5 The final recovery vacuum shall be the mixing chamber pressure called for in 7.1.2.5 expressed in inches of mercury vacuum, [mm Hg or kP]. The accuracy of the measurement shall be within ±.1 inch [±2.5mm] of Hg and rounding down to the nearest whole number.
9.6 The contaminant levels remaining after testing shall be published as follows:
Moisture content, PPM by weight
Chloride ions, Pass/Fail
Acidity, PPM by weight
High boiling residue, percentage by volume
Particulate/solid, Pass/Fail
Non-condensables, % by volume
9.7 Product Literature: Except as provided under product labelling in Section 11. performance ratings per 9.1, 9.2, 9.3, and 9.5 must be grouped together and shown for all listed refrigerants (11.2) subject to limitations of 9.8. Wherever any contaminant levels per 9.6 are rated, all ratings in 9.6 must be shown for all listed refrigerants subject to limitations of 9.8. The type of equipment in 11.1 must be included with either grouping. Optional ratings in 9.8 need not be shown.
9.8 Ratings shall include all of the parameters for each designed refrigerant in 11.2 as shown in Tables 2 and 3.
Table 2—Performance
Parameter/type of equipment
Recovery
Recovery/ recycle
Recycle
System dependent equipment
Liquid refrigerant recovery rate
(
2
)
(
2
)
N/A
N/A
Vapor refrigerant recovery rate
(
2
)
(
2
)
N/A
N/A
Final recovery vacuum
(
1
)
(
1
)
N/A
(
1
)
Recycle rate
N/A
(
1
)
(
1
)
N/A
Refrigerant loss due to non-condensable purging
(
3
)
(
1
)
(
1
)
N/A
1
Mandatory rating.
2
For a recovery or recovery/recycle unit, one must rate for either liquid feed only or vapor feed only or can rate for both. If rating only the one, the other shall be indicated by “N/A.”
3
For Recovery Equipment, these parameters are optional. If not rated, use N/A.
Table 3—Contaminants
Contaminant/type of equipment
Recovery
Recovery/recycle
Recycle
System dependent equipment
Moisture content
(*)
x
x
NA.
Chloride ions
(*)
x
x
NA.
Acidity
(*)
x
x
NA.
High boiling residue
(*)
x
x
NA.
Particulates
(*)
x
x
NA.
Non-condensables
(*)
x
x
NA.
* For Recovery Equipment, these parameters are optional. If not rated, use N/A.
x Mandatory rating.

# Section 10. Tolerances
10.1 Any equipment tested shall produce contaminant levels not higher than the published ratings. The liquid refrigerant recovery rate, vapor refrigerant recovery rate, final recovery vacuum and recycle rate shall not be less than the published ratings.

# Section 11. Product Labelling
11.1
Type of equipment.
The type of equipment shall be as listed:
11.1.1 Recovery only
11.1.2 System Dependent Recovery
11.1.3 Recovery/Recycle
11.1.4 Recycle only
11.2 Designated refrigerants and the following as applicable for each:
11.2.1 Liquid Recovery Rate
11.2.2 Vapor Recovery Rate
11.2.3 Final Recovery Vacuum
11.2.4 Recycle Rate
11.3 The nameplate shall also conform to the labeling requirements established for certified recycling and recovery equipment established at 40 CFR 82.158(h).

# Attachment to Appendix B1
Particulate Used in Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Sample.

# 1. Particulate Specification
1.1 The particulate material pm will be a blend of 50% coarse air cleaner dust as received, and 50% retained on a 200-mesh screen. The coarse air cleaner dust is available from: AC Spark Plug Division, General Motors Corporation, Flint, Michigan.

# 1.2 Preparation of Particulate Materials
To prepare the blend of contaminant, first wet screen a quantity of coarse air cleaner dust on a 200-mesh screen (particle retention 74 pm). This is done by placing a portion of the dust on a 200-mesh screen and running water through the screen while stirring the dust with the fingers. The fine contaminant particles passing through the screen are discarded. The +200 mesh particles collected on the screen are removed and dried for one hour at 230 F [110 °C]. The blend of standard contaminant is prepared by mixing 50% by weight of coarse air cleaner dust as received after drying for one hour at 230 F [110 °C] with 50% by weight of the +200 mesh screened dust.
1.3 The coarse air cleaner dust as received and the blend used as the standard contaminant have the following approximate particle size analysis: Wt. % in various size ranges, pm.
Size range
As received
Blend
0-5
12
6
5-10
12
6
10-20
14
7
20-40
23
11
40-80
30
32
80-200
9
38
[58 FR 28712, May 14, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 42960, Aug. 19, 1994. Redesignated and amended at 68 FR 43815, July 24, 2003]
Pt. 82, Subpt. F, App. B2

# Appendix B2 to Subpart F of Part 82—Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling, and/or Reclaim Equipment
This appendix is based on the Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute Standard 740-1995.

# Section 1. Purpose
1.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this standard is to establish methods of testing for rating and evaluating the performance of refrigerant recovery, and/or recycling equipment and general equipment requirements (herein referred to as “equipment”) for contaminant or purity levels, capacity, speed and purge loss to minimize emission into the atmosphere of designated refrigerants.

# Section 2. Scope
2.1
Scope.
This standard applies to equipment for recovering and/or recycling single refrigerants, azeotropics, zeotropic blends, and their normal contaminants from refrigerant systems. This standard defines the test apparatus, test gas mixtures, sampling procedures and analytical techniques that will be used to determine the performance of refrigerant recovery and/or recycling equipment (hereinafter, “equipment”).

# Section 3. Definitions
3.1
Definitions.
All terms in this appendix will follow the definitions in § 82.152 unless otherwise defined in this appendix.
3.2
Clearing Refrigerant.
Procedures used to remove trapped refrigerant from equipment before switching from one refrigerant to another.
3.3
High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate.
For equipment having at least one designated refrigerant (see 11.2) with a boiling point in the range of −50 to +10 °C, the rate will be measured for R-22, or the lowest boiling point refrigerant if R-22 is not a designated refrigerant.
3.4
Published Ratings.
A statement of the assigned values of those performance characteristics, under stated rating conditions, by which a unit may be chosen to fit its application. These values apply to all units of like nominal size and type (identification) produced by the same manufacturer. As used herein, the term “published rating” includes the rating of all performance characteristics shown on the unit or published in specifications, advertising or other literature controlled by the manufacturer, at stated rating conditions.
3.5
Push/Pull Method.
The push/pull refrigerant recovery method is defined as the process of transferring liquid refrigerant from a refrigeration system to a receiving vessel by lowering the pressure in the vessel and raising the pressure in the system, and by connecting a separate line between the system liquid port and the receiving vessel.
3.6
Recycle Flow Rate.
The amount of refrigerant processed divided by the time elapsed in the recycling mode. For equipment which uses a separate recycling sequence, the recycle rate does not include the recovery rate (or elapsed time). For equipment which does not use a separate recycling sequence, the recycle rate is a rate based solely on the higher of the liquid or vapor recovery rate, by which the contaminant levels were measured.
3.7
Residual Trapped Refrigerant.
Refrigerant remaining in equipment after clearing.
3.8
Shall, Should, Recommended
or
It Is Recommended
shall be interpreted as follows:
3.8.1
Shall.
Where “shall” or “shall not” is used for a provision specified, that provision
is mandatory if compliance with this appendix is claimed.
3.8.2
Should, Recommended
or
It Is Recommended
is used to indicate provisions which are not mandatory but which are desirable as good practice.
3.9 Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Sample. A mixture of new or reclaimed refrigerant and specified quantities of identified contaminants which constitute the mixture to be processed by the equipment under test. These contaminant levels are expected only from severe service conditions.
3.10
Trapped Refrigerant.
The amount of refrigerant remaining in the equipment after the recovery or recovery/recycling operation but before clearing.
3.11
Vapor Recovery Rate.
The average rate that refrigerant is withdrawn from the mixing chamber between two pressures as vapor recovery rate is changing pressure and temperature starting at saturated conditions either 24 °C or at the boiling point 100 kPa (abs), whichever is higher. The final pressure condition is 10% of the initial pressure, but not lower than the equipment final recovery vacuum and not higher than 100 kPa (abs).

# Section 4. General Equipment Requirements
4.1
Equipment Information.
The equipment manufacturer shall provide operating instructions, necessary maintenance procedures and source information for replacement parts and repair.
4.2
Filter Replacement.
The equipment shall indicate when any filter/drier(s) needs replacement. This requirement can be met by use of a moisture transducer and indicator light, by use of a sight glass/moisture indicator or by some measurement of the amount of refrigerant processed such as a flow meter or hour meter. Written instructions such as “to change the filter every 181 kg, or every 30 days” shall not be acceptable except for equipment in large systems where the liquid recovery rate is greater than 11.3 kg/min where the filter/drier(s) would be changed for every job.
4.3
Purge of Non-Condensable.
If non-condensables are purged, the equipment shall either automatically purge non-condensables or provide indicating means to guide the purge process.
4.4
Purge Loss.
The total refrigerant loss due to purging non-condensables, draining oil and clearing refrigerant (
see
9.5) shall be less than 3% (by weight) of total processed refrigerant.
4.5
Permeation Rate.
High pressure hose assemblies
5/8
in. [16 mm] nominal and smaller shall not exceed a permeation rate of 3.9 g/cm
2
/yr (internal surface) at a temperature of 48.8 °C. Hose assemblies that UL recognized as having passed ANSI/UL 1963 requirements shall be accepted without testing. See 7.1.4.
4.6
Clearing Trapped Refrigerant.
For equipment rated for more than one refrigerant, the manufacturer shall provide a method and instructions which will accomplish connections and clearing within 15 minutes. Special equipment, other than a vacuum pump or manifold gauge set shall be furnished. The clearing procedure shall not rely upon the storage cylinder below saturated pressure conditions at ambient temperature.
4.7
Temperature.
The equipment shall be evaluated at 24 °C with additional limited evaluation at 40 °C. Normal operating conditions range from 10 °C to 40 °C.
4.8
Exemptions.
Equipment intended for recovery only shall be exempt from 4.2 and 4.3.

# Section 5. Contaminated Refrigerants
5.1
Sample Characteristics.
The standard contaminated refrigerant sample shall have the characteristics specified in Table 1, except as provided in 5.2.
5.2
Recovery-Only Testing.
Recovery equipment not rated for any specific contaminant shall be tested with new or reclaimed refrigerant.

# Section 6. Test Apparatus
6.1
General Recommendations.
The recommended test apparatus is described in the following paragraphs. If alternate test apparatus are employed, the user shall be able to demonstrate that they produce results equivalent to the specified referee apparatus.
6.2
Self-Contained Equipment Test Apparatus.
The apparatus, shown in Figure 1, shall consist of:
6.2.1
Mixing Chamber.
A mixing chamber consisting of a tank with a conical-shaped bottom, a bottom port and piping for delivering refrigerant to the equipment, various ports and valves for adding refrigerant to the chamber and stirring means for mixing.
6.2.2
Filling Storage Cylinder.
The storage cylinder to be filled by the refrigerant transferred shall be cleaned and at the pressure of the recovered refrigerant at the beginning of the test. It will not be filled over 80%, by volume.
6.2.3
Vapor Feed.
Vapor refrigerant feed consisting of evaporator, control valves and piping to create a 3.0 °C superheat condition at an evaporating temperature of 21 °C ±2K.
6.2.4
Alternative Vapor Feed.
An alternative method for vapor feed shall be to pass the refrigerant through a boiler and then through an automatic pressure regulating valve set at different saturation pressures, moving from saturated pressure at 24 °C to final pressure of recovery.
6.2.5
Liquid Feed.
Liquid refrigerant feed consisting of control valves, sampling port and piping.
6.2.6
Instrumentation.
Instrumentation capable of measuring weight, temperature, pressure and refrigerant loss, as required.
Table 1—Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Samples
R11
R12
R13
R22
R113
R114
R123
R134a
R500
R502
R503
Moisture Content: ppm by Weight of Pure refrigerant
100
80
30
200
100
85
200
200
200
200
30
Particulate Content: ppm by Weight of Pure Refrigerant Characterized by
1
80
80
NA
80
80
80
80
80
80
80
NA
Acid Content: ppm by Weight of Pure Refrigerant—(mg KOH per kg Refrigerant) Characterized by
2
500
100
NA
500
400
200
500
100
100
100
NA
Mineral Oil Content:
% by Weight of Pure Refrigerant
20
5
NA
5
20
20
20
5
5
5
NA
Viscosity (SUS)
300
150
300
300
300
300
150
3
150
150
Non-Condensable Gases (Air Content): % by Volume
NA
3
3
3
NA
3
NA
3
3
3
3
1
Particulate content shall consist of inert materials and shall comply with particulate requirements in appendix B.
2
Acid consists of 60% oleic acid and 40% hydrochloric acid on a total number basis.
3
Synthetic ester-based oil.
ER24JY03.007
6.3
Size.
The size of the mixing chamber shall be a minimum of .09 m
3
. The bottom port and the refrigerant feed shall depend on the size of the equipment. Typically, the mixing valves and piping shall be 9.5 mm. For large equipment to be used on chillers, the minimum inside diameter of ports, valves and pipings shall be the smaller of the manufacturer's recommendation or 37 mm.
6.4
System Dependent Equipment Test Apparatus.
This test apparatus is to be used for final recovery vacuum rating of all system dependent equipment.
6.4.1
Test Setup.
The test apparatus shown in Figure 2 consists of a complete refrigeration system. The manufacturer shall identify the refrigerants to be tested. The test apparatus can be modified to facilitate operation or testing of the system dependent equipment if the modifications to the apparatus are specifically described within the manufacturer's literature. (
See
Figure 2.) A 6.3 mm balance line shall be connected across the test apparatus between the high and low-pressure sides, with an isolation valve located at the connection to the compressor high side. A 6.3 mm access port with a valve core shall be located in the balance line for the purpose of measuring final recovery vacuum at the conclusion of the test.

# Section 7. Performance Testing
7.1
General Testing.
7.1.1
Temperatures.
Testing shall be conducted at an ambient temperature of 24 °C ±1K except high temperature vapor recovery shall be at 40 °C ±1K. The evaporator conditions of 6.2.3 shall be maintained as long as liquid refrigerant remains in the mixing chamber.
7.1.2
Refrigerants.
The equipment shall be tested for all designated refrigerants (
see
11.2). All tests in Section 7 shall be completed for each refrigerant before starting tests with the next refrigerant.
7.1.3
Selected Tests.
Tests shall be as appropriate for the equipment type and ratings parameters selected (
see
9.9, 11.1 and 11.2).
7.1.4
Hose Assemblies.
For the purpose of limiting refrigerant emissions to the atmosphere, hose assemblies shall be tested for permeation according to ANSI/UL Standard 1963, Section 40.10.
7.2
Equipment Preparation and Operation.
The equipment shall be prepared and operated per the operating instructions.
7.3
Test Batch.
The test batch consisting of refrigerant sample (
see
Section 5) of the test refrigerant shall be prepared and thoroughly mixed. Continued mixing or stirring shall be required during the test while liquid refrigerant remains in the mixing chamber. The mixing chamber shall be filled to 80% level by volume.
7.3.1
Control Test Batch.
Prior to starting the test for the first batch for each refrigerant, a liquid sample will be drawn from the mixing chamber and analyzed per Section 8 to assure that contaminant levels match Table 1 within ±10 ppm for moisture, ±20 ppm for particulate, ±20 ppm for oleic acid and ±0.5% for oil.
7.4
Recovery Tests (Recovery and Recovery/Recycle Equipment).
7.4.1
Determining Recovery Rates.
The liquid and vapor refrigerant recovery rates shall be measured during the first test batch for each refrigerant (
see
9.1, 9.2 and 9.4). Equipment preparation and recovery cylinder changeover shall not be included in elapsed time measurements for determining vapor recovery rate and liquid refrigerant recovery rate. Operations such as subcooling the recovery cylinder shall be included. Recovery cylinder shall be the same size as normally furnished or specified in the instructions by the equipment manufacturer. Oversized tanks shall not be permitted.
7.4.1.1
Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate.
If elected, the recovery rate using the liquid refrigerant feed means (
see
6.2.5) shall be determined. After the equipment reaches stabilized conditions of condensing temperature and/or recovery cylinder pressure, the recovery process shall be stopped and an initial weight shall be taken of the mixing chamber (
see
9.2). The recovery process shall be continued for a period of time sufficient to achieve the accuracy in 9.4. The recovery process shall be stopped and a final weight shall be taken of the mixing chamber.
ER24JY03.008
7.4.1.2
Vapor Refrigerant Recovery Rate.
If elected, the average vapor flow rate shall be measured to accuracy requirements in clause 9.4 under conditions with no liquid refrigerant in the mixing chamber. The liquid recovery feed means shall be used. At initial conditions of saturated vapor at the higher of 24 °C or the boiling temperature (100 kPa absolute pressure), the weight of the mixing chamber and the pressure shall be recorded. At final conditions representing pressure in the mixing chamber of 10% of the initial condition, but not less than the final recovery vacuum (
see
9.6) nor more than 100 kPa, measure the weight of the mixing chamber and the elapsed time.
7.4.1.3
High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate.
Applicable for equipment having at least one designated refrigerant (
see
11.2) with a boiling point between −50 °C and +10 °C. Measure the rate for R-22, or the refrigerant with the lowest boiling point if R-22 is not a designated refrigerant. Repeat the test in 7.4.1.2 at saturated conditions at 40 °C and continue to operate equipment to assure it will achieve the final recovery vacuum (
see
7.4.3).
7.4.2
Recovery Operation.
This test is for determining the final recovery vacuum and the ability to remove contaminants as appropriate. If equipment is rated for liquid recovery (
see
7.4.1.3), liquid recovery feed means described in 6.2.5 shall be used. If not, vapor recovery means described in 6.2.3 or 6.2.4 shall be used. Continue recovery operation until all liquid is removed from the test apparatus and vapor is removed to the point where equipment shuts down by automatic means or is manually shut off per operating instructions.
7.4.2.1
Oil Draining.
Capture oil from the equipment at intervals as required in the instructions. Record the weight of the container. Completely remove refrigerant from oil by evacuation or other appropriate means. The weight difference shall be used in 9.5.2.
7.4.3
Final Recovery Vacuum.
At the end of the first test batch for each refrigerant, the liquid valve and vapor valve of the apparatus shall be closed. After waiting 1 minute, the mixing chamber pressure shall be recorded (
see
9.6).
7.4.4
Residual Refrigerant.
This test will measure the mass of remaining refrigerant in the equipment after clearing and therefore the potential for mixing refrigerants (
see
4.6).
7.4.4.1
Initial Conditions.
At the end of the last test for each batch for each refrigerant, the equipment shall be disconnected from the test apparatus (Figure 1). Recycle per 7.5, if appropriate. Perform refrigerant clearing operations as called for in the instruction manual. Capture and record the weight of any refrigerant which would have been emitted to the atmosphere during the clearing process for use in 9.5. If two loops are used for recycling, trapped refrigerant shall be measured for both.
7.4.4.2
Residual Trapped Refrigerant.
Evacuate an empty test cylinder to 1.0 kPa absolute. Record the empty weight of the test cylinder. Open all valves to the equipment so as to provide access to all trapped refrigerant. Connect the equipment to the test cylinder and operate valves to recover the residual refrigerant. Record the weight of the test cylinder using a recovery cylinder pressure no less than specified in 6.2.2. Place the test cylinder in liquid nitrogen for a period of 30 minutes or until a vacuum of 1000 microns is reached, whichever occurs first.
7.5
Recycling Tests (Recovery/Recycle Equipment).
7.5.1
Recycling Operation.
As each recovery cylinder is filled in 7.4.2, recycle according to operating instructions. There will not necessarily be a separate recycling sequence. Note non-condensable purge measurement in 9.5.
7.5.1.1
Recycle Flow Rate.
While recycling the first recovery cylinder for each refrigerant, determine the recycling flow rate by appropriate means (
see
9.3) to achieve the accuracy required in 9.4.
7.5.2
Non-Condensable Sample.
After completing 7.4.3, prepare a second test batch (7.3). Recover per 7.4.2 until the current recovery cylinder is filled to 80% level by volume. Recycle per 7.5.1. Mark this cylinder and set aside for taking the vapor sample. For equipment having both an internal tank of at least 3 kg refrigerant capacity and an external recovery cylinder, two recovery cylinders shall be marked and set aside. The first is the cylinder described above. The second cylinder is the final recovery cylinder after filling it to 80% level by volume and recycling.
7.5.3
Liquid Sample for Analysis.
Repeat steps 7.3, 7.4.2 and 7.5.1 with further test batches until indication means in 4.2 show the filter/drier(s) need replacing.
7.5.3.1
Multiple Pass.
For equipment with a separate recycling circuit (multiple pass), set aside the current cylinder and draw the liquid sample (
see
7.4) from the previous cylinder.
7.5.3.2
Single Pass.
For equipment with the single pass recycling circuit, draw the liquid sample (
see
7.4) from the current cylinder.
7.6
Measuring Refrigerant Loss.
Refrigerant loss due to non-condensables shall be determined by appropriate means (
see
9.5.1). The loss could occur in 7.4.1, 7.4.2 and 7.5.1.

# Section 8. Sampling and Chemical Analysis Methods
8.1
Chemical Analysis.
Chemical analysis methods shall be specified in appropriate standards such as ARI 700-95 and Appendix C to ARI Standard 700-95.
8.2
Refrigerant Sampling.
8.2.1
Water Content.
The water content in refrigerant shall be measured by the Karl Fischer Analytical Method or by the Karl Fischer Coulometric techniques. Report the moisture level in parts per million by weight.
8.2.2
Chloride Ions.
Chloride ions shall be measured by turbidity tests. At this time, quantitative results have not been defined. Report chloride content as “pass” or “fail.” In the future, when quantitative results are possible, report chloride content as parts per million by weight.
8.2.3
Acidity.
The acidity test uses the titration principle. Report the acidity in parts per million by weight (mg KOH/kg) of sample.
8.2.4
High Boiling Residue.
High boiling residues shall use measurement of the volume of residue after evaporating a standard volume of refrigerant. Using weight measurement and converting to volumetric units is acceptable. Report high boiling residues as percent by volume.
8.2.5
Particulates/Solids.
The particulates/solids measurement employs visual examination. Report results as “pass” or “fail.”
8.2.6
Non-condensables.
The level of contamination by non-condensable gases in the base refrigerant being recycled shall be determined by gas chromatography. Report results as percent by volume.

# Section 9. Performance Calculation and Rating
9.1
Vapor Refrigerant Recovery Rate.
This rate shall be measured by weight change of the mixing chamber divided by elapsed time (
see
7.4.1.2). The units shall be kg/min and the accuracy shall be per 9.4.
9.1.1
High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate.
9.2
Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate.
This rate shall be measured by weight change of the mixing chamber divided by elapsed time (
see
7.4.1.3). The units shall be kg/min and the accuracy shall be per 9.4.
9.3
Recycle Flow Rate.
The recycle flow rate shall be as defined in 3.10, expressed in kg/min, and the accuracy shall be per 9.4.
9.3.1 For equipment using multi-pass recycling or a separate sequence, the recycle rate shall be determined by dividing the net weight W of the refrigerant to be recycled by the actual time T required to recycle. Any set-up or operator interruptions shall not be included in the time T.
9.3.2 If no separate recycling sequence is used, the recycle rate shall be the higher of the vapor refrigerant recovery rate or the liquid refrigerant recovery rate. The recycle rate shall match a process which leads to contaminant levels in 9.9. Specifically, a recovery rate determined from bypassing a contaminant removal device cannot be used as a recycle rate when the contaminant levels in 9.9 are determined by passing the refrigerant through the contaminant removal device.
9.4
Accuracy of Flow Rates.
The accuracy of test measurements in 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3 shall be ±008 kg/min or flow rates up to .42 kg/min and ±2.0% for flow rates larger than .42 kg/min. Ratings shall be expressed to the nearest .02 kg/min.
9.5
Refrigerant Loss.
This calculation will be based upon the net loss of refrigerant which would have been eliminated in the non-condensable purge process (
see
7.5.1), the oil draining process (
see
7.4.2.1) and the refrigerant clearing process (
see
7.4.4.1), all divided by the net refrigerant content of the test batches. The refrigerant loss shall not exceed 3% by weight.
9.5.1
Non-Condensable Purge.
Evacuate an empty container to 2 kPa absolute. Record the empty weight of the container. Place the container in a dry ice bath. Connect the equipment purge connection to the container and operate purge according to operating instructions so as to capture the non-condensables and lost refrigerant. Weigh the cylinder after the recycling is complete. Equivalent means are permissible.
9.5.2
Oil Draining.
Refrigerant removed from the oil after draining shall be collected and measured in accordance with 7.4.2.1.
9.5.3
Clearing Unit.
Refrigerant captured during the clearing process shall be measured in accordance with 7.4.4.1.
9.6
Final Recovery Vacuum.
The final recovery vacuum shall be the mixing chamber pressure in 7.4.3 expressed in kPa. The accuracy of the measurement shall be within 0.33 kPa.
9.7
Residual Trapped Refrigerant.
The amount of residual trapped refrigerant shall be the final weight minus the initial weight of the test cylinder in 7.4.4.2, expressed in kg. The accuracy shall be ±0.02 kg and reported to the nearest 0.05 kg.
9.8
Quantity Recycled.
The amount of refrigerant processed before changing filters (
see
7.5.3) shall be expressed in kg to an accuracy of ±1%.
9.9
Contaminant Levels.
The contaminant levels remaining after testing shall be published as follows:
Moisture content, ppm by weight
Chloride ions, pass/fail
Acidity, ppm by weight
High boiling residue, % (by volume)
Particulates-solid, pass/fail (visual examination)
Non-condensables, % (by volume)
9.10
Minimum Data Requirements for Published Ratings.
Published ratings shall include all of the parameters as shown in Tables 2 and 3 for each refrigerant designated by the manufacturer.

# Section 10. Tolerances
10.1
Tolerances.
Performance related parameters shall not be less favorable than the published ratings.

# Section 11. Marking and Nameplate Data
11.1
Marking and Nameplate Data.
The nameplate shall display the manufacturer's name, model designation, type of equipment, designated refrigerants, capacities and electrical characteristics where applicable. The nameplate shall also conform to the labeling requirements established for certified recycling and recovery equipment established at 40 CFR 82.158(h).
Recommended nameplate voltages for 60 Hertz systems shall include one or more of the utilization voltages shown in Table 1 of ARI Standard 110-90. Recommended nameplate voltages for 50 Hertz systems shall include one or more of the utilization voltages shown in Table 1 of IEC Standard Publication 38, IEC Standard Voltages.
11.2
Data for Designated Refrigerants.
For each refrigerant designated, the manufacturer shall include all the following that are applicable per Table 2:
a. Liquid Recovery Rate
b. Vapor Recovery Rate
c. High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate
d. Final Recovery Vacuum
e. Recycle Flow Rate
f. Residual Trapped Refrigerant
g. Quantity Recycled
Table 2—Performance
Parameter/Type of equipment
Recovery
Recovery/Recycle
Recycle
System
dependent
equipment
Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate
(
1
)
(
1
)
N/A
N/A
Vapor Refrigerant Recovery Rate
(
1
)
(
1
)
N/A
N/A
High Temp. Vapor Recovery Rate
(
1
)
(
1
)
N/A
N/A
Final Recovery Vacuum
(
X
)
(
X
)
N/A
(
X
)
Recycle Flow Rate
N/A
(
X
)
(
X
)
N/A
Refrigerant Loss
(
3
)
(
X
)
(
X
)
(
3
)
Residual Trapped Refrigerant
(
2
)
(
2
)
(
2
)
(
2
)
Quantity Recycled
N/A
(
X
)
(
X
)
N/A
X
Mandatory rating.
1
For a recovery or recovery/recycle unit, one must rate either liquid refrigerant recovery rate or vapor refrigerant recovery rate or one can rate for both. If rating only the one, the other shall be indicated by N/A, “not applicable.”
2
Mandatory rating for equipment tested for multiple refrigerants.
3
Mandatory rating if multiple refrigerants, oil separation or non-condensable purge are rated.
Note:
For recovery equipment, these parameters are optional. If not rated use N/A, “not applicable.”
Table 3—Contaminants
Contaminant/Type of equipment
Recovery
Recovery/Recycle
Recycle
System
dependent
equipment
Moisture Content
(*)
(
X
)
(
X
)
N/A
Chloride Ions
(*)
(
X
)
(
X
)
N/A
Acidity
(*)
(
X
)
(
X
)
N/A
High Boiling Residue
(*)
(
X
)
(
X
)
N/A
Particulates
(*)
(
X
)
(
X
)
N/A
Non-Condensables
(*)
(
X
)
(
X
)
N/A
* For recovery equipment, these parameters are optional. If not rated, use N/A, “not applicable.”
X
Mandatory rating.

# Attachment 1 to Appendix B2 to Subpart F of Part 82—References
Listed here are all standards, handbooks, and other publications essential to the formation and implementation of the standard. All references in this appendix are considered as part of this standard.
• ANSI/UL Standard 1963,
Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment,
First Edition, 1989, American National Standards Institute/Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.
• ARI Standard 110-90,
Air-Conditioning and Refrigerating Equipment Nameplate Voltages,
Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute
• ARI Standard 700-95,
Specifications for Fluorocarbon and Other Refrigerants,
Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute
• ASHRAE Terminology of Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning, Refrigeration,
Refrigeration, American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Inc., 1991
• IEC Standard Publication 38,
IEC Standard Voltages,
International Electrotechnical Commission, 1983

# Attachment 2 to Appendix B2 to Subpart F of Part 82-Particulate Used in Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Sample

# 1. Particulate Specification
B1.1 The particulate material (pm) will be a blend of 50% coarse air cleaner dust as received, and 50% retained on a 200-mesh screen. The coarse air cleaner dust is available from: AC Spark Plug Division; General Motors Corporation; Flint, Michigan.
B1.2
Preparation of Particulate Materials.
To prepare the blend of contaminant, first wet screen a quantity of coarse air cleaner dust on a 200-mesh screen (particle retention 74 pm). This is done by placing a portion of the dust on a 200-mesh screen and running water through the screen while stirring the dust with the fingers. The fine contaminant particles passing through the screen are discarded. The +200-mesh particles collected on the screen are removed and dried for one hour at 110 °C. The blend of standard contaminant is prepared by mixing 50% by weight of coarse air cleaner dust as received (after drying for one hour at 110 °C) with 50% by weight of the +200 mesh screened dust.
B1.3
Particle Size Analysis.
The coarse air cleaner dust as received and the blend used as the standard contaminant have the following approximate particle size analysis:
Wt. % in various size ranges, pm.
Size range
As received
Blend
0-5
12
6
5-10
12
6
10-20
14
7
20-40
23
11
40-80
30
32
80-200
9
38
[68 FR 43815, July 24, 2003; 68 FR 54678, Sept. 18, 2003]
Pt. 82, Subpt. F, App. B3

# Appendix B3 to Subpart F of Part 82—Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling, and/or Reclaim Equipment
This appendix is based on the Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute Standard 740-2016,
Performance Rating of Refrigerant Recovery Equipment and Recovery/Recycling Equipment.

# Section 1. Purpose
1.1 The purpose of this standard is to establish methods of testing for rating and evaluating the performance of refrigerant recovery, and/or recycling equipment and general equipment requirements (herein referred to as “equipment”) for contaminant or purity levels, capacity, speed and purge loss to minimize emission into the atmosphere of designated refrigerants.

# Section 2. Scope
2.1 This standard applies to equipment for recovering and/or recycling single refrigerants, azeotropes, zeotropic blends, and their normal contaminants from refrigerant systems. This standard defines the test apparatus, test gas mixtures, sampling procedures and analytical techniques that will be used to determine the performance of refrigerant recovery and/or recycling equipment (hereinafter, “equipment”). Appendix B4 of this subpart establishes standards for recovery/recycling equipment used with flammable refrigerants.

# Section 3. Definitions
3.1
Definitions.
All terms in this appendix will follow the definitions in § 82.152 unless otherwise defined in this appendix.
3.2
Clearing Refrigerant.
Procedures used to remove trapped refrigerant(s) from equipment before switching from one refrigerant to another.
3.3
High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate.
For equipment having at least one designated refrigerant (see Section 11.2 of this appendix) with a boiling point in the range of −50 to +10 °C, the rate will be measured for R-22, or the lowest boiling point refrigerant if R-22 is not a designated refrigerant.
3.4
Published Ratings.
A statement of the assigned values of those performance characteristics, under stated rating conditions, by which a unit may be chosen to fit its application. These values apply to all units of like nominal size and type (identification) produced by the same manufacturer. As used herein, the term “published rating” includes the rating of all performance characteristics shown on the unit or published in specifications, advertising, or other literature controlled by the manufacturer, at stated rating conditions.
3.5
Push/Pull Liquid Recovery.
The push/pull refrigerant recovery method is defined as the process of transferring liquid refrigerant from a refrigeration system to a receiving vessel by lowering the pressure in the vessel and raising the pressure in the system, and by connecting a separate line between the system liquid port and the receiving vessel.
3.6
Recycle Flow Rate.
The amount of refrigerant processed divided by the time elapsed in the recycling mode. For equipment which uses a separate recycling sequence, the recycle rate does not include the recovery rate (or elapsed time). For equipment which does not use a separate recycling sequence, the recycle rate is a rate based solely on the higher of the liquid or vapor recovery rate, by which the contaminant levels were measured.
3.7
Residual Trapped Refrigerant.
Refrigerant remaining in equipment after clearing refrigerant.
3.8
Shall, Should, Recommended
or
It Is Recommended
shall be interpreted as follows:
3.8.1
Shall.
Where “shall” or “shall not” is used for a provision specified, that provision is mandatory if compliance with this appendix is claimed.
3.8.2
Should, Recommended
or
It Is Recommended
is used to indicate provisions which are not mandatory but which are desirable as good practice.
3.9
Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Sample.
A mixture of new or reclaimed refrigerant and specified quantities of identified contaminants which constitute the mixture to be processed by the equipment under test. These contaminant levels are expected only from severe service conditions.
3.10
Trapped Refrigerant.
The amount of refrigerant remaining in the equipment after the recovery or recovery/recycling operation but before clearing refrigerant.
3.11
Vapor Recovery Rate.
The average rate that refrigerant is withdrawn from the mixing chamber between two pressures as vapor recovery rate is changing depending on the pressure. The initial condition is vapor only at saturation pressure and temperature at either 24 °C or at the boiling point at 100 kPa, whichever is higher. The final pressure condition is 10 percent of the initial pressure, but not lower than the equipment final recovery vacuum and not higher than 100 kPa.

# Section 4. General Equipment Requirements
4.1
Equipment Information.
The equipment manufacturer shall provide operating instructions, necessary maintenance procedures, and source information for replacement parts and repair.
4.2
Filter Replacement.
The equipment shall indicate when any filter/drier(s) needs replacement. This requirement can be met
by use of a moisture transducer and indicator light, by use of a sight glass/moisture indicator, or by some measurement of the amount of refrigerant processed such as a flow meter or hour meter. The equipment manufacturer must provide maximum quantity recycled or filter change interval in its written instructions.
4.3
Purge of Non-Condensable.
If non-condensables are purged, the equipment shall either automatically purge non-condensables or provide an indicating means to guide the purge process. Recycling equipment must provide purge means.
4.4
Purge Loss.
The total refrigerant loss due to purging non-condensables, draining oil, and clearing refrigerant (see Section 9.5) shall be less than 3 percent (by weight) of total processed refrigerant.
4.5
Permeation Rate.
High pressure hose assemblies
5/8
in. (16 mm) nominal and smaller shall not exceed a permeation rate of 3.9 g/cm
2
/yr (internal surface) at a temperature of 48.8 °C. Hose assemblies that UL recognized as having passed UL 1963, 2011 requirements shall be accepted without testing. See Section 7.1.4 of this appendix.
4.6
Clearing Trapped Refrigerant.
For equipment rated for more than one refrigerant, the manufacturer shall provide a method and instructions which will accomplish connections and clearing within 15 minutes. Special equipment, other than a vacuum pump or manifold gauge set, shall be furnished. The clearing procedure shall not rely upon the storage cylinder below saturated pressure conditions at ambient temperature.
4.7
Temperature.
The equipment shall be evaluated at 24 °C with additional limited evaluation at 40 °C. Normal operating conditions range from 10 °C to 40 °C.
4.8
Exemptions.
Equipment intended for recovery only shall be exempt from Sections 4.2 and 4.3.

# Section 5. Contaminated Refrigerants
5.1
Sample Characteristics.
The standard contaminated refrigerant sample shall have the characteristics specified in Table 1, except as provided in Section 5.2 of this appendix. Testing shall be conducted at an ambient temperature of 24 °C ± 1 °C except high temperature vapor recovery shall be 40 °C ± 1 °C.
5.2
Recovery-only Testing.
Recovery equipment not rated for removal of contaminants shall be tested with new or reclaimed refrigerant.
ER18NO16.093

# Section 6. Test Apparatus
6.1
General Recommendations.
The recommended test apparatus is described in the following paragraphs. If alternate test apparatus are employed, the user shall be able to demonstrate that they produce results equivalent to the specified reference apparatus.
6.2
Self-Contained Equipment Test Apparatus.
The apparatus, shown in Figure 1, shall consist of:
6.2.1
Mixing Chamber.
A mixing chamber consisting of a tank with a conical-shaped bottom, a bottom port and piping for delivering refrigerant to the equipment, various ports and valves for adding refrigerant to the chamber, and stirring means for mixing.
6.2.2
Filling Storage Cylinder.
The storage cylinder to be filled by the refrigerant transferred shall be cleaned and at the pressure of the recovered refrigerant at the beginning of the test. It will not be filled over 80 percent, by volume.
6.2.3
Vapor Feed.
Vapor refrigerant feed consisting of evaporator, control valves and piping to create a 3.0 °C superheat condition at an evaporating temperature of 21 °C ± 2 °C.
6.2.4
Alternative Vapor Feed.
An alternative method for vapor feed shall be to pass the refrigerant through a boiler and then through an automatic pressure regulating valve set at different saturation pressures, moving from saturated pressure at 24 °C to final pressure of recovery.
6.2.5
Liquid Feed.
Liquid refrigerant feed consisting of control valves, sampling port, and piping.
6.2.6
Instrumentation.
Instrumentation capable of measuring weight, temperature, pressure, and refrigerant loss, as required.
ER18NO16.094
6.3
Size.
The size of the mixing chamber and filling storage cylinder used during testing shall correspond to the size of the equipment being tested per Section 6.3.1 or 6.3.2:
6.3.1 For equipment utilizing nominal
1/4
″ or
3/8
″ flare ports and hoses, the mixing chamber shall be 0.09 m
3
and all ports, valves, mixing valves, and piping shall be
1/2
″ or larger, reduced down to the port size of the equipment by fittings at the connection ports of the mixing chamber. The filling storage cylinder used during testing shall be a nominal 50-pound water capacity DOT 4Bx cylinder with
1/4
″ flare liquid and vapor ports.
6.3.2 For equipment utilizing
1/2
″ or larger flare ports and hoses, the mixing chamber shall be 0.45 m
3
(or nominal 1000-pound water capacity DOT 4Bx cylinder) and all ports, valves, mixing valves, and piping shall be 1
1/2
″ or larger, reduced down to the port size of the equipment by fittings at the connection ports of the mixing chamber. The filling storage cylinder used during testing shall be a nominal 1000-pound water capacity DOT 4Bx cylinder with liquid and vapor ports, valves and piping sized
3/4
″ NPT and reduced or increased to the port size of the equipment by fittings at the connection ports of the filling storage cylinder.
6.4
System Dependent Equipment Test Apparatus.
This test apparatus is to be used for final recovery vacuum rating of all system dependent equipment.
6.4.1
Test Setup.
The test apparatus shown in Figure 2 consists of a complete refrigeration system. The manufacturer shall identify the refrigerants to be tested. The test apparatus can be modified to facilitate operation or testing of the system dependent equipment if the modifications to the apparatus are specifically described within the manufacturer's literature. A 6.3 mm balance line shall be connected across the test apparatus between the high- and low-pressure sides, with an isolation valve located at the connection to the compressor high side. A 6.3 mm access port with a valve core shall be located in the balance line for the purpose of measuring final recovery vacuum at the conclusion of the test.
ER18NO16.095

# Section 7. Performance Testing Procedures
7.1
General Testing.
7.1.1
Temperatures.
Testing shall be conducted at an ambient temperature of 24 °C ± 1 °C except high temperature vapor recovery shall be at 40 °C ± 1 °C. The evaporator conditions of Section 6.2.3 shall be maintained as long as liquid refrigerant remains in the mixing chamber.
7.1.2
Refrigerants.
The equipment shall be tested for all designated refrigerants (see Section 11.2). All tests in Section 7 shall be completed for each refrigerant before starting tests with the next refrigerant.
7.1.3
Selected Tests.
Tests shall be as appropriate for the equipment type and ratings
parameters selected (see Sections 9.9, 11.1 and 11.2).
7.1.4
Hose Assemblies.
For the purpose of limiting refrigerant emissions to the atmosphere, hose assemblies shall be tested for permeation according to UL Standard 1963 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
7.2
Equipment Preparation and Operation.
The equipment shall be prepared and operated per the operating instructions.
7.3
Test Batch.
The test batch consisting of refrigerant sample (
see
Section 5) of the test refrigerant shall be prepared and thoroughly mixed. Continued mixing or stirring shall be required during the test while liquid refrigerant remains in the mixing chamber. The mixing chamber shall be filled to 80 percent level by volume.
7.3.1
Control Test Batch.
Prior to starting the test for the first batch for each refrigerant, a liquid sample will be drawn from the mixing chamber and analyzed per Section 8 to assure that contaminant levels match Table 1 within ±10 ppm for moisture, ±20 ppm for oleic acid and ±0.5 percent for oil.
7.4
Recovery Tests (Recovery and Recovery/Recycling Equipment)
7.4.1
Determining Recovery Rates.
The liquid and vapor refrigerant recovery rates shall be measured during the first test batch for each refrigerant (
see
Sections 9.1, 9.2 and 9.4). Equipment preparation and recovery cylinder changeover shall not be included in elapsed time measurements for determining vapor recovery rate and liquid refrigerant recovery rate. Operations such as subcooling the recovery cylinder shall be included. The recovery cylinder shall be the same size as per Section 6.3 or as furnished by the equipment manufacturer. Oversized tanks shall not be permitted.
7.4.1.1
Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate.
If elected, the recovery rate using the liquid refrigerant feed means (
see
Section 6.2.5) shall be determined. After the equipment reaches stabilized conditions of condensing temperature and/or recovery cylinder pressure, the recovery process shall be stopped and an initial weight shall be taken of the mixing chamber (
see
Section 9.2). The recovery process shall be continued for a period of time sufficient to achieve the accuracy in Section 9.4. The recovery process shall be stopped and a final weight of the mixing chamber shall be taken.
7.4.1.2
Vapor Refrigerant Recovery Rate.
If elected, the average vapor flow rate shall be measured to accuracy requirements in Section 9.4 under conditions with no liquid refrigerant in the mixing chamber. The liquid recovery feed means shall be used. At initial conditions of saturated vapor at the higher of 24 °C or the boiling temperature (100 kPa), the weight of the mixing chamber and the pressure shall be recorded. At final conditions representing pressure in the mixing chamber of 10 percent of the initial condition, but not less than the final recovery vacuum (
see
Section 9.6) nor more than 100 kPa, measure the weight of the mixing chamber and the elapsed time. At initial conditions, the recovery cylinder shall be at saturation pressure at ambient conditions.
7.4.1.3
High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate.
This is applicable for equipment having at least one designated refrigerant (
see
Section 11.2) with a boiling point between −50 °C and +10 °C. Measure the rate for R-22, or the refrigerant with the lowest boiling point if R-22 is not a designated refrigerant. Repeat the test in Section 7.4.1.2 at saturated conditions at 40 °C and continue to operate equipment to assure it will operate at this condition (see Section 7.4.3). At initial conditions, the recovery cylinder shall be at saturated pressure at 40 °C.
7.4.1.4
Push/Pull Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate.
If elected, the average liquid push/pull flow rate shall be measured to accuracy requirements in Section 9.4. The mixing chamber and filling storage cylinder shall be filled with refrigerant vapor at initial conditions of saturated vapor at the higher of 24 °C or the boiling temperature at 100 kPa. An amount of liquid refrigerant shall be added to the mixing chamber equivalent to 80 percent by weight of the capacity of the filling storage cylinder. The pressure between the mixing chamber and filling storage cylinder shall be equalized and stabilized at initial conditions of saturated vapor at the higher of 24 °C or the boiling temperature at 100 kPa. The initial weight of the mixing chamber and the pressure shall be recorded. The equipment is then operated in push/pull liquid recovery mode and the weight change of the mixing chamber is recorded over time until all of the liquid has been transferred.
7.4.2
Recovery Operation.
This test is for determining the final recovery vacuum and the ability to remove contaminants as appropriate. If equipment is rated for liquid recovery (
see
Section 7.4.1.3), liquid recovery feed means described in Section 6.2.5 shall be used. If not, vapor recovery means described in Sections 6.2.3 or 6.2.4 shall be used. Continue recovery operation until all liquid is removed from the test apparatus and vapor is removed to the point where equipment shuts down by automatic means or is manually shut off per operating instructions.
7.4.2.1
Oil Draining.
Capture oil from the equipment at intervals as required in the instructions. Record the weight of the container. Completely remove refrigerant from oil by evacuation or other appropriate means. The weight difference shall be used in Section 7.5.2.
7.4.3
Final Recovery Vacuum.
At the end of the first test batch for each refrigerant, the liquid valve and vapor valve of the apparatus shall be closed. After waiting 1 minute, the mixing chamber pressure shall be recorded (
see
Section 9.6).
7.4.4
Residual Refrigerant.
This test will measure the mass of remaining refrigerant in the equipment after clearing and therefore the extent of mixing different refrigerants (
see
Section 9.6).
7.4.4.1
Initial Conditions.
At the end of the last test for each batch for each refrigerant, the equipment shall be disconnected from the test apparatus (Figure 1). Recycle per Section 7.5, if appropriate. Perform refrigerant clearing operations as called for in the instruction manual. Capture and record the weight of any refrigerant which would have been emitted to the atmosphere during the clearing process for use in Section 9.5. If two loops are used for recycling, trapped refrigerant shall be measured for both.
7.4.4.2
Residual Trapped Refrigerant.
Evacuate an empty test cylinder to 1.0 kPa. Record the empty weight of the test cylinder. Open all valves to the equipment so as to provide access to all trapped refrigerant. Connect the equipment to the test cylinder and operate valves to recover the residual refrigerant. Record the weight of the test cylinder using a recovery cylinder pressure no less than specified in Section 6.2.2. Place the test cylinder in liquid nitrogen for a period of 30 minutes or until a vacuum of 1000 microns is reached, whichever occurs first.
7.5
Recycling Tests (Recovery/Recycling Equipment).
7.5.1
Recycling Operation.
As each recovery cylinder is filled in Section 7.4.2, recycle according to operating instructions. There will not necessarily be a separate recycling sequence. Note non-condensable purge measurement in Section 9.5.
7.5.1.1
Recycle Flow Rate.
While recycling the first recovery cylinder for each refrigerant, determine the recycling flow rate by appropriate means (
see
Section 9.3) to achieve the accuracy required in Section 9.4.
7.5.2
Non-Condensable Sample.
After completing Section 7.4.3, prepare a second test batch (
see
Section 7.3). Recover per Section 7.4.2 until the current recovery cylinder is filled to 80 percent level by volume. Recycle per Section 7.5.1. Mark this cylinder and set aside for taking the vapor sample. For equipment having both an internal tank of at least 3 kg refrigerant capacity and an external recovery cylinder, two recovery cylinders shall be marked and set aside. The first is the cylinder described above. The second cylinder is the final recovery cylinder after filling it to 80 percent level by volume and recycling.
7.5.2.1
Push/Pull Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate.
This rate shall be measured by weight change of the mixing chamber divided by elapsed time (
see
Section 7.4.1.4). The units shall be kg/min and the accuracy shall be per Section 9.4.
7.5.3
Liquid Sample for Analysis.
Repeat steps in Sections 7.3, 7.4.2 and 7.5.1 with further test batches until indication means in Section 4.2 show the filter/drier(s) need replacing.
7.5.3.1
Multiple Pass.
For equipment with a separate recycling circuit (multiple pass), set aside the current cylinder and draw the liquid sample (
see
Section 7.4) from the previous cylinder.
7.5.3.2
Single Pass.
For equipment with the single pass recycling circuit, draw the liquid sample (
see
Section 7.4) from the current cylinder.
7.6
Measuring Refrigerant Loss.
Refrigerant loss due to non-condensables shall be determined by appropriate means (
see
Section 9.5.1). The loss could occur in Sections 7.4.1, 7.4.2 and 7.5.1.

# Section 8. Sampling and Chemical Analysis Methods
8.1
Chemical Analysis.
Chemical analysis methods shall be specified in appropriate standards such as AHRI Standard 700,
2008 Appendix C for Analytical Procedures for AHRI Standard 700-2014- Normative
, and Addendum 700-1 to Appendix C. If alternate test methods are employed, the laboratory must be able to demonstrate that they produce results equivalent to the specified referee method.
8.2
Refrigerant Sampling.
8.2.1
Moisture Content.
The water content in refrigerant shall be measured by the Karl Fischer Coulometric Titration technique. Report the moisture level in parts per million by weight.
8.2.2
Chloride Ions.
Chloride ions shall be measured by turbidity tests. At this time, quantitative results have not been defined. Report chloride content as “pass” or “fail.” In the future, when quantitative results are possible, report chloride content as parts per million by weight.
8.2.3
Acid Content.
The acidity test uses the titration principle. Report the acidity in parts per million by weight (mg KOH/kg) of sample.
8.2.4
High Boiling Residue.
High boiling residues shall use measurement of the volume of residue after evaporating a standard volume of refrigerant. Using weight measurement and converting to volumetric units is acceptable. Report high boiling residues as percent by volume.
8.2.5
Particulates/Solids.
The particulates/solids measurement employs visual examination. Report results as “pass” or “fail.”
8.2.6
Non-condensables.
The level of contamination by non-condensable gases in the base refrigerant being recycled shall be determined by gas chromatography. Report results as percent by volume.

# Section 9. Performance Calculations for Ratings
9.1
Vapor Refrigerant Recovery Rate.
This rate shall be measured by weight change of
the mixing chamber divided by elapsed time (
see
7.4.1.2). The units shall be kg/min and the accuracy shall be per Section 9.4.
9.1.1
High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate.
This rate shall be measured by measured weight change of the mixing chamber divided by elapsed time (see Section 7.4.1.3). The units shall be kg/min and the accuracy shall be per Section 9.4.
9.2
Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate.
This rate shall be measured by weight change of the mixing chamber divided by elapsed time (
see
7.4.1.3). The units shall be kg/min and the accuracy shall be per Section 9.4.
9.3
Recycle Flow Rate.
The recycle flow rate shall be as defined in Section 3.12, expressed in kg/min, and the accuracy shall be per Section 9.4.
9.3.1 For equipment using multi-pass recycling or a separate sequence, the recycle rate shall be determined by dividing the net weight, W, of the refrigerant to be recycled by the actual time T required to recycle. Any set-up or operator interruptions shall not be included in the time T.
9.3.2 If no separate recycling sequence is used, the recycle rate shall be the higher of the vapor refrigerant recovery rate or the liquid refrigerant recovery rate. The recycle rate shall match a process which leads to contaminant levels in Section 9.9. Specifically, a recovery rate determined from bypassing a contaminant removal device cannot be used as a recycle rate when the contaminant levels in Section 9.9 are determined by passing the refrigerant through the contaminant removal device.
9.4
Accuracy of Flow Rates.
The accuracy of test measurements in Sections 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3 shall be ±008 kg/min for flow rates up to 0.42 kg/min and ±2.0 percent for flow rates larger than 0.42 kg/min. Ratings shall be expressed to the nearest 0.02 kg/min.
9.5
Refrigerant Loss.
This calculation will be based upon the net loss of refrigerant which would have been eliminated in the non-condensable purge process (
see
Section 7.5.1), the oil draining process (
see
Section 7.4.2.1) and the refrigerant clearing process (
see
Section 7.4.4.1), all divided by the net refrigerant content of the test batches. The refrigerant loss shall not exceed 3 percent by weight.
9.5.1
Non-Condensable Purge.
Evacuate an empty container to 2 kPa. Record the empty weight of the container. Place the container in a dry ice bath. Connect the equipment purge connection to the container and operate purge according to operating instructions so as to capture the non-condensables and lost refrigerant. Weigh the cylinder after the recycling is complete. Equivalent means are permissible.
For units which either recycle or publish (list) non-condensable removal, non-condensable gases are purged, operating the recycle device per the manufacturer's instructions through an evaporator pressure regulator (EPR) valve into a liquid nitrogen-chilled cylinder. This combination will simulate the atmosphere while allowing the capture of purge gases. The cylinder is weighed before and after the purge procedure.
9.5.2
Oil Draining.
Refrigerant removed from the oil after draining shall be collected and measured in accordance with Section 7.4.2.1.
9.5.3
Clearing Unit.
Refrigerant captured during the clearing process shall be measured in accordance with Section 7.4.4.1.
9.6
Final Recovery Vacuum.
The final recovery vacuum shall be the mixing chamber pressure in Section 7.4.3 expressed in kPa at 24 °C. The accuracy of the measurement shall be within 0.33 kPa.
9.7
Residual Trapped Refrigerant.
The amount of residual trapped refrigerant shall be the final weight minus the initial weight of the test cylinder in Section 7.4.4.2, expressed in kg. The accuracy shall be ±0.02 kg and reported to the nearest 0.05 kg.
9.8
Refrigerant Processed.
The amount of refrigerant processed before changing filters (
see
Section 7.5.3) shall be expressed in kg to an accuracy of ±1 percent.
9.9
Contaminant Levels.
The contaminant levels remaining after testing shall be published as follows:
Moisture content, ppm by weight
Chloride ions, pass/fail
Acid Content, ppm by weight
High boiling residue, percent (by volume)
Particulates/solids, pass/fail (visual examination)
Non-condensables, percent (by volume)
9.10
Minimum Data Requirements for Published Ratings.
Published ratings shall include all of the parameters as shown in Tables 2 and 3 for each refrigerant designated by the manufacturer.

# Section 10. Tolerances
10.1
Tolerances.
Performance related parameters shall be equal to or better than the published ratings.

# Section 11. Marking and Nameplate Data
11.1
Marking and Nameplate Data.
The nameplate shall display the manufacturer's name, model designation, type of equipment (Recovery or Recovery/Recycling and Self-Contained or System Dependent), designated refrigerant(s), capacities, and electrical characteristics where applicable. The nameplate shall also conform to the labeling requirements established for certified recycling and recovery equipment established at 40 CFR 82.158(h).
Recommended nameplate voltages for 60 Hertz systems shall include one or more of the equipment nameplate voltages shown in Table 1 of AHRI 110-2016 (incorporated by
reference, see § 82.168). Recommended nameplate voltages for 50 Hertz systems shall include one or more of the utilization voltages shown in Table 1 of IEC 60038 (English version) (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
11.2
Data for Designated Refrigerants.
For each refrigerant designated, the manufacturer shall include all the following that are applicable per Table 2:
a. Liquid Recovery Rate, kg/min
b. Vapor Recovery Rate, kg/min
c. High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate, kg/min
d. Push/Pull Liquid Recovery Rate, kg/min
e. Final Recovery Vacuum Level, kPa
f. Recycle Flow Rate, kg/min
g. Refrigerant Loss, kg
h. Residual Trapped Refrigerant, kg
i. Quantity of Refrigerant Processed at Rated Conditions, kg
Table 2—Performance Ratings for Refrigerant Recovery and Recovery/Recycling Equipment
4,5
Parameter
Type of equipment
Recovery
Recovery/
recycling
Recycling
System
dependent
equipment
Liquid Refrigerant Recovery Rate, kg/min
X
1, 4
X
1
N/A
5
N/A
Vapor Refrigerant Recovery Rate, kg/min
X
1
X
1
N/A
N/A
High Temperature Vapor Recovery Rate, kg/min
X
1
X
1
N/A
N/A
Push/Pull Liquid Recovery Rate, kg/min
X
1
X
1
N/A
N/A
Final Recovery Vacuum Level, kPa
X
X
N/A
X
Recycle Flow Rate, kg/min
N/A
X
X
N/A
Refrigerant Loss, kg
X
2
X
X
X
3
Residual Trapped Refrigerant, kg
X
3
X
2
X
2
X
2
Quantity of Refrigerant Processed at Rated Conditions, kg
N/A
X
X
N/A
1
For a recovery or recovery/recycle unit, one must rate either liquid refrigerant recovery rate or vapor refrigerant recovery rate or one can rate for both. If rating only one, the other shall be indicated by N/A, “not applicable.”
2
Mandatory rating if multiple refrigerants, oil separation or non-condensable purge are rated.
3
Mandatory rating for equipment tested for multiple refrigerants.
4
“X” denotes mandatory rating or equipment requirements.
5
“N/A” indicates “Not Applicable” for a parameter that does not have a rating.
Table 3—Contaminant Removal Ratings for Refrigerant Recovery and Recovery/Recycling Equipment
1 2
Contaminant
Type of equipment
Recovery
Recovery/
recycling
Recycling
System
dependent
equipment
Moisture Content, ppm by weight
N/A
2
X
1
X
N/A
Chloride Ions, pass/fail
N/A
X
X
N/A
Acid Content, ppm by weight
N/A
X
X
N/A
High Boiling Residue, % by volume
N/A
X
X
N/A
Particulates/solids, pass/fail
N/A
X
X
N/A
Non-condensables, % by volume
N/A
X
X
N/A
1
“X” denotes mandatory rating.
2
“N/A” indicates “Not Applicable” for a parameter that does not have a rating.

# Section 12. References
Listed here are all standards, handbooks, and other publications essential to the formation and implementation of the standard. All references in this appendix are considered as part of this standard.
• UL 1963,
Standard for Safety Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment
, Fourth Edition (with revisions through October 13, 2013), dated June 1, 2011, (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
• AHRI 110-2016,
2016 Standard for Air-Conditioning, Heating and Refrigerating Equipment Nameplate Voltages
, copyright 2016 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
• AHRI Standard 700-2015,
Specifications for Refrigerants
, Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute
• IEC 60038
IEC Standard Voltages
, Edition 7.0, 2009-06 (English version) (incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).

# Section 13.0. Particulate Used in Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Sample
13.1
Particulate Specification
13.1.1 The particulate material (pm) will be a blend of 50 percent coarse air cleaner dust as received, and 50 percent retained on a 200-mesh screen. The coarse air cleaner
dust is available from: AC Spark Plug Division; General Motors Corporation; Flint, Michigan.
13.1.2
Preparation of Particulate Materials.
To prepare the blend of contaminant per ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 63.2-1996 (RA 2010), first wet screen a quantity of coarse air cleaner dust on a 200-mesh screen (particle retention 74 µm). This is done by placing a portion of the dust on a 200-mesh screen and running water through the screen while stirring the dust with the fingers. The fine contaminant particles passing through the screen are discarded. The larger than 200-mesh particles collected on the screen are removed and dried for one hour at 110 °C. The blend of standard contaminant is prepared by mixing 50 percent by weight of coarse air cleaner dust as received (after drying for one hour at 110 °C) with 50 percent by weight of the larger than 200-mesh screened dust.
13.1.3
Particle Size Analysis.
The coarse air cleaner dust as received and the blend used as the standard contaminant have the following approximate particle size analysis:
Table B1—Weight Percentage in Various
µm
Size Ranges for Particle Size Analysis
Size range
(µm)
As
received
(wt %)
Blend
(wt %)
0-5
12
6
5-10
12
6
10-20
14
7
20-40
23
11
40-80
30
32
80-200
9
38
[81 FR 82383, Nov. 18, 2016]
Pt. 82, Subpt. F, App. B4

# Appendix B4 to Subpart F of Part 82—Performance and Safety of Flammable Refrigerant Recovery and/or Recycling Equipment
This appendix is based on the Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute Standard 740-2016,
Performance Rating of Refrigerant Recovery Equipment and Recovery/Recycling Equipment
, and Underwriters Laboratories Standard 1963-2011 (Fourth Edition),
Standard for Safety: Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment
, including Supplement SB (added October 11, 2013),
Requirements for Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment Intended for Use with a Flammable Refrigerant.

# Section 1. Purpose
1.1 The purpose of this standard is to establish methods of testing for rating and evaluating the performance and safety of refrigerant recovery and/or recycling equipment and general equipment requirements (herein referred to as “equipment”) for contaminant or purity levels, capacity, speed and purge loss to minimize emission into the atmosphere of designated refrigerants, as well as safety for use with flammable refrigerants.

# Section 2. Scope
2.1 This standard applies to equipment for recovering and/or recycling flammable single refrigerants, azeotropes, zeotropic blends, and their normal contaminants from refrigerant systems. This standard defines the test apparatus, test gas mixtures, sampling procedures, analytical techniques, and equipment construction that will be used to determine the performance and safety of refrigerant recovery and/or recycling equipment (hereinafter, “equipment”).

# Section 3. Definitions
3.1 All terms in this appendix will follow the definitions in § 82.152 and Appendix B3 to Subpart F of Part 82 unless otherwise defined in this appendix.
3.2 All definitions used in UL 1963, including the definitions in Supplement SB, as applicable, are incorporated by reference, see § 82.168.

# Section 4. Evaluation of Performance
4.1
Performance Ratings.
All recovery and/or recycling equipment to be tested under this appendix must follow the procedures and meet all requirements established in Appendix B3 to Subpart F of Part 82 to determine the performance ratings in addition to the safety evaluation conducted under the rest of this appendix.
4.2
Safety.
All recovery and/or recycling equipment to be tested under this appendix must follow the procedures and meet all requirements in Supplement SB (added October 11, 2013),
Requirements for Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment Intended for Use with a Flammable Refrigerant
in Underwriters Laboratories Standard 1963-2011 (Fourth Edition),
Standard for Safety: Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment
(incorporated by reference, see § 82.168).
[81 FR 82390, Nov. 18, 2016]
Pt. 82, Subpt. F, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart F of Part 82—Method for Testing Recovery Devices for Use With Small Appliances

# Recovery Efficiency Test Procedure for Refrigerant Recovery Equipment Used on Small Appliances
The following test procedure is utilized to evaluate the efficiency of equipment designed to recover ozone depleting refrigerants (or any substitute refrigerant subject to the recycling rules promulgated pursuant to section 608 of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990) from small appliances when
service of those appliances requires entry into the sealed refrigeration system or when those appliances are destined for disposal. This procedure is designed to calculate on a weight or mass basis the percentage of a known charge of CFC-12 refrigerant removed and captured from a test stand refrigeration system. Captured refrigerant is that refrigerant delivered to a container suitable for shipment to a refrigerant reclaimer plus any refrigerant remaining in the recovery system in a manner that it will be transferred to a shipping container after additional recovery operations.
The test stand refrigeration system required for this procedure is constructed with standard equipment utilized in currently produced household refrigerator and freezer products. The procedure also accounts for compressor oils that might be added to or removed from the test stand compressor or any compressor used in the recovery system.

# I. Test Stand
Test stands are constructed in accordance with the following standards.
1. Evaporator—
5/16
in. outside dia. with 30 cu. in. volume.
2. Condenser—
1/4
in. outside dia. with 20 cu. in volume.
3. Suction line capillary heat exchanger—appropriate for compressor used.
4. An 800-950 Btu/hr high side case (rotary) compressor; or (depending on the test senario);
5. An 800-9500 Btu/hr low side case (reciprocating) compressor.
A person seeking to have its recovery system certified shall specify the compressors by manufacturer and model that are to be used in test stands constructed for evaluation of its equipment, and the type and quantity of compressor to be used in those compressors. Only a compressor oil approved for use by the compressor's manufacturer may be specified, and the quantity of compressor oil specified shall be an appropriate quantity for the type of oil and compressor to be used. In order to reduce the cost of testing, the person seeking certification of its recovery system may supply an EPA approved third party testing laboratory with test stands meeting these standards for use in evaluating its recovery system.

# II. Test Conditions
Tests are to be conducted at 75 degrees F, plus or minus 2 degrees F (23.9 C ±1.1 C). Separate tests are conducted on both high side case compressor stands and low side case compressor stands. Separate tests are also conducted with the test stand compressor running during the recovery operation, and without the test stand compressor running during the recovery operation, to calculate the system's recovery efficiency under either condition.
These tests are to be performed using a representative model of all equipment used in the recovery system to deliver recovered refrigerant to a container suitable for shipment to a refrigerant reclaimer. The test stands are to be equipped with access valves permanently installed as specific by the recovery system's vendor to represent the valves used with that system in actual field operations.
A series of five (5) recovery operations are to be performed for each compressor scenario and a recovery efficiency is calculated based on the total quantity of refrigerant captured during all five (5) recoveries. Alternatively, at the request of the recovery system's vendor, a recovery efficiency is to be calculated for each recovery event. In this case, a statistically significant number of recovery operations are to be performed. Determination of what is a statistically significant number of recoveries is to be calculated as set out below. These individual recovery efficiencies are then averaged.
There are four (4) compressor scenarios to be tested. These are a high side case compressor in working condition; a high side case compressor in nonworking condition; a low side case compressor in working condition; and a low side case compressor in nonworking condition. Recovery efficiencies calculated for the two working compressor scenarios are to be averaged to report a working compressor performance. The two nonworking compressor efficiencies are also to be averaged to report a nonworking compressor performance.
If large scale equipment is required in the system to deliver recovered refrigerant to a refrigerant reclaimer (eg. carbon desorption equipment) and it is not possible to have that equipment evaluated under the procedure, the system's vendor shall obtain engineering data on the performance of that large scale equipment that will reasonably demonstrate the percentage refrigerant lost when processed by that equipment. That data will be supplied to any person required to evaluate the performance of those systems. The following procedure will also be modified as needed to determine the weight of refrigerant recovered from a test stand and delivered to a container for shipment to the large process equipment for further processing. The percentage loss documented to occur during processing is then to be applied to the recovery efficiencies calculated in this modified procedure to determine the overall capture efficiency for the entire system.
The following are definitions of symbols used in the test procedure.
Test Stand:
“TSO” means an original test stand weight.
“TSC” means a charged test stand weight.
Shipping Containers:
“SCO” means the original or empty weight of shipping container(s).
“SCF” means the final or full weight of shipping container(s).
Recover/Transfer System:
“RSO” means the original weight of a recovery/transfer system.
“RSF” means the final weight of a recovery/transfer system.
“OL” means the net amount of oil added/removed from the recovery device and/or transfer device between the beginning and end of the test for one compressor scenario.
Weighing steps are conducted with precision and accuracy of plus or minus 1.0 gram.

# III. Test Procedure
1. Evacuate the test stand to 20 microns vacuum (pressure measured at a vacuum pump) for 12 hours.
2. Weigh the test stand (TSO).
3. If this is the first recovery operation being performed for a compressor scenario (or if a recovery efficiency is to be calculated for each recovery event), then weigh all devices used in the recovery system to deliver recovered refrigerant to a container suitable for shipment or delivery to a refrigerant reclaimer. Weigh only devices that can retain refrigerant in a manner that it will ultimately be transferred to a shipping container without significant release to the atmosphere (RSO).
4. Weigh final shipping containers (SCO).
5. Charge the test stand with an appropriate CFC-12 charge (either 6 oz. or 9 oz.).
6. Run the test stand for four (4) hours with 100% run time.
7. Turn off the test stand for twelve (12) hours. During this period evaporate all condensation that has collected on the test stand during step 6.
8. Weigh the test stand (TSC).
9. Recover CFC-12 from the test stand and perform all operations needed to transfer the recovered refrigerant to one of the shipping containers weighed in step 4. All recovery and transfer operations are to be performed in accordance with the operating instructions provided by the system's vendor. The compressor in the test stand is to remain “off” or be turned “on” during the recovery operation depending on whether the test is for a nonworking or working compressor performance evaluation. If a recovery efficiency is to be calculated for each recovery event, transfer the captured refrigerant to a shipping container and then skip to step 13. Otherwise continue. If the system allows for multiple recovery operations to be performed before transferring recovered refrigerant to a shipping container, the transfer operation can be delayed until either the maximum number of recovery operations allowed before a transfer is required have been performed, or the last of the five (5) recovery operations has been performed.
10. Perform any oil removal or oil addition operations needed to properly maintain the test stand and the devices used for recovery or transfer operations. Determine the net weight of the oil added or removed from the recovery device and/or transfer device. (OP1 for oil added, OP2 for oil removed).
11. Evacuate the test stand to 20 microns vacuum for 4 hours.
12. Return to step 2 unless five (5) recovery operations have been performed.
13. Weigh all final shipping containers that received recovered refrigerant (SCF).
14. Weigh the equipment weighed in step three (3) above (RSF). If a recovery efficiency is to be calculated for each recovery event, perform calculations and return to step one (1) for additional recoveries.

# IV. Calculations

# A.
For Five (5) Consecutive Recoveries
Refrigerant Recoverable
equals the summation of charged test stand weights minus original test stand weights.
82-412a.eps
Oil Loss
equals the net weight of oil added to and removed from the recovery device and/or transfer device.
82-412b.eps
Refrigerant Recovered
equals the final weight of shipping containers minus the initial weight of final shipping containers, plus final recovery system weight, minus original recovery system weight, plus the net value of all additions and removals of oil from the recovery and transfer devices.
en30au93.001
n = number of shipping containers used.
Recovery Efficiency
equals Refrigerant Recovered divided by Refrigerant Recoverable times 100%.
en30au93.002

# B.
For Individual Recoveries
Refrigerant Recoverable
equals the charged test stand weight minus the original test stand weight.
en30au93.003
Refrigerant Recovered
equals the final weight of the shipping container minus the initial weight of the shipping container plus the final weight of the recovery system minus the original recovery system weight.
en30au93.004
Recovery Efficiency
equals Refrigerant Recovered divided by Refrigerant Recoverable times 100 percent.
en30au93.005

# C.
Calculation of a Statistically Significant Number of Recoveries
en30au93.006
Where:
N
add
= the number of additional samples required to achieve 90% confidence.
sd = Standard deviation, or (X/(N−1)
5
)
X = Sample average
N = Number of samples tested
Number of samples
t for 90% confidence
2
6.814
3
2.920
4
2.353
5
2.132
6
2.015
7
1.943
8
1.895
9
1.860
10
1.833
Procedure:
1. Compute N
add
after completing two recoveries.
2. If N
add
0, then run an additional test.
3. Re-compute N
add
. Continue to test additional samples until N
add
0.

# V. Test Procedure Approval and Certification
Each vendor of capture equipment for small appliances desiring certification will provide a representative model of its capture system and its recommended recovery procedures to an EPA approved third party laboratory for testing in accordance with this procedure. The third party laboratory will certify recovery systems that when tested in accordance with this procedure demonstrate a sufficient recovery efficiency to meet EPA regulatory requirements.
Pt. 82, Subpt. F, App. D

# Appendix D to Subpart F of Part 82—Standards for Becoming a Certifying Program for Technicians
a. Test Preparation.
Technicians must pass an EPA-approved test, provided by an EPA-approved certifying program to be certified as a Type I technician. Organizations providing Type I certification only may choose either an on-site format or a mail-in format similar to what is permitted under the MVACs program.
Technicians must pass a closed-book, proctored test, administered in a secure environment, by an EPA-approved certifying program to be certified as a Type II or Type III technician.
Technicians must pass a closed-book, proctored test (or series of tests), administered in a secure environment, by an EPA-approved certifying program to be certified as a Universal technician. Mail-in format Type I tests cannot be used toward a Universal certification.
Each certifying program must assemble tests by choosing a prescribed subset from the EPA test bank. EPA will have a test bank with more questions than are needed for an individual test, which will enable the certifying program to generate multiple tests in order to discourage cheating. Each test must include 25 questions drawn from Group 1 and 25 questions drawn from each relevant technical Group. Tests for Universal technicians will include 100 questions (25 from Group 1 and 25 from each relevant technical Group). Universal tests may be taken all at once, or by combining passing scores on separate Type I, Type II, and Type III tests. Questions should be divided in order to sufficiently cover each topic within the Group.
Certifying programs must provide a paper hand-out or electronic form of communication to technicians after they have completed their certification test that contains the following information:
—Which certifying program is providing the testing;
—Contact information for the certifying program;
—The name and contact information of the proctor; and
—When they should expect to receive their score and, if they passed, their certification card.
Each certifying program must show a method of randomly choosing which questions will be on the tests. Multiple versions of the test must be used during each testing event. Test answer sheets must include the name and address of the applicant, the name and address of the certifying program, and the date and location at which the test was administered.
Training material accompanying mail-in Type I tests must not include sample test questions mimicking the language of the certification test. All mail-in material will be subject to review by EPA.
Certifying programs may charge individuals reasonable fees for the administration of the tests. EPA will publish a list of all approved certifying programs.
b. Proctoring.
A certifying program for Type I (if in-person), Type II, Type III, and Universal technicians must designate at least one proctor registered for every 50 people taking tests at the same time at a given site.
The certification test for Type I (if taken as part of a Universal certification), Type II, Type III, and Universal technicians is a closed-book exam. The proctors must ensure that the applicants for certification do not use any notes or training materials during testing. Desks or work space must be placed in a way that discourages cheating. The space and physical facilities are to be conducive to continuous surveillance by the proctors and monitors during testing.
The proctor may not receive any benefit from the outcome of the testing other than a fee for proctoring. Proctors cannot know in advance which questions are on the tests they are proctoring.
Proctors are required to verify the identity of individuals taking the test by examining photo identification. Acceptable forms of identification include but are not limited to drivers' licenses, government identification cards, passports, and military identification.
Certifying programs for Type I technicians using the mail-in format, must take sufficient measures at the test site to ensure that tests are completed honestly by each technician. Each test for Type I certification must provide a means of verifying the identification of the individual taking the test. Acceptable forms of identification include but are not limited to drivers' licenses and passports.
c. Test Security.
A certifying program must demonstrate the ability to ensure the confidentiality and security of the test questions and answer keys through strict accountability procedures. An organization interested in developing a technician certification program will be required to describe these test security procedures to EPA.
After the completion of a test, proctors must collect all test forms, answer sheets, scratch paper and notes. These items are to be placed in a sealed envelope.
d. Test Content.
All Type I, Type II and Type III, certification tests will include 25 questions from Group I and 25 questions from Group II. Universal certification tests will include 25 questions from Group I and 75 questions from Group II (with 25 from each of the three sector-specific areas).
Group I will ask questions in the following areas:
1. Environmental impact of CFCs, HCFCs, and substitute refrigerants
2. Laws and regulations
3. Changing industry outlook
Group II will ask questions covering sector-specific (
i.e.,
Type I, Type II, Type III) issues in the following areas:
4. Leak detection
5. Recovery Techniques
6. Safety
7. Shipping
8. Disposal
e. Grading.
Tests must be graded objectively. Certifying programs must inform the applicant of their test results no later than 30 days from the date of the test. Type I certifying programs using the mail-in format must notify the applicants of their test results no later than 30 days from the date the certifying programs received the completed test and any required documentation.
The passing score for the closed-book Type I, Type II, Type III and Universal certification test is 70 percent. The passing score for Type I certification tests using the mail-in format is 84 percent.
f. Proof of Certification.
Certifying programs must issue a standard wallet-sized identification card no later than 30 days from the date of the test. Type I certifying programs using mail-in formats must issue cards to certified technicians no later than 30 days from the date the certifying program receives the completed test and any required documentation.
Each wallet-sized identification card must include, at a minimum, the name of the certifying program including the date the certifying program received EPA approval, the name of the person certified, the type of certification, a unique number for the certified person that does not include a technician's social security number, and the following text:
[name of person] has successfully passed a [Type I, Type II, Type III and/or Universal—as appropriate] exam on how to responsibly handle refrigerants as required by EPA's National Recycling and Emissions Reduction Program.
g. Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements.
Certifying programs must maintain records of the names and addresses of all individuals taking the tests, the scores of all certification tests administered, and the dates and locations of all tests administered. These records must be maintained indefinitely, unless transferred to another certifying program or EPA.
EPA must receive an activity report from all approved certifying programs by every January 30 and July 30, which covers the previous six months of certifications. The first report must be submitted following the first full six-month period for which the program has been approved by EPA. This report includes the pass/fail rate. If the certifying program believes a test bank question needs to be modified, information about that question should also be included.
Approved certifying programs will receive a letter of approval from EPA. Each testing
center must display a copy of that letter at their place of business.
Approved technician certification programs that voluntarily plan to stop providing the certification test must forward all records required by this appendix and § 82.161 to another program currently approved by EPA in accordance with this appendix and with § 82.161. Approved technician certification programs that receive records of certified technicians from a program that no longer offers the certification test, and the program that is voluntarily withdrawing from being a technician certification program must inform EPA at the address listed in § 82.160 within 30 days of receiving or transferring these records. The notification must include the name and address of the program to which the records have been transferred. If another currently approved program willing to accept the records cannot be located, these records must be submitted to EPA at the address listed at § 82.160.
Technician certification programs that have had their certification revoked in accordance with § 82.169 must forward all records required by this appendix and § 82.161 to EPA at the address listed in § 82.160. Failure to do so is a violation of 40 CFR part 82, subpart F.
h. Additional Requirements.
EPA may periodically inspect testing sites to ensure compliance with EPA regulations. If testing center discrepancies are found, they must be corrected within a specified time period. If discrepancies are not corrected, EPA may suspend or revoke the certifying program's approval. The inspections will include but are not limited to a review of the certifying program's provisions for test security, the availability of space and facilities to conduct the administrative requirements and ensure the security of the tests, the availability of adequate testing facilities and spacing of the applicants during testing, a review of the proper procedures regarding accountability, and that there is no evidence of misconduct on the part of the certifying programs, their representatives and proctors, or the applicants for certification.
If the certifying programs offer training or provide review materials to the applicants, these endeavors are to be considered completely separate from the administration of the certification test.
[81 FR 82390, Nov. 18, 2016]
Pt. 82, Subpt. F, App. E

# Appendix E to Subpart F of Part 82—Test Procedure for Leaks From Containers Holding Two Pounds or Less of Refrigerant for Use in an MVAC
This appendix is based on the California Air Resources Board (CARB) standard
TP-503: Test Procedure for Leaks from Small Cans of Automotive Refrigerant,
as amended on January 5, 2010; and CARB standard
BP-A1: Balance Protocol for Gravimetric Determination of Sample Weights using a Precision Balance,
as amended January 5, 2010.

# Section 1. Applicability
This test procedure is used by manufacturers of containers holding two pounds or less of refrigerant for use in a motor vehicle air conditioner (MVAC) to determine the leakage rate of small containers of automotive refrigerant that are subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 82, subpart F. Specifically, this test procedure will specify the equipment, procedures, and calculations to determine if a container holding two pounds or less of refrigerant for use in an MVAC complies with the leakage rate specified in § 82.154(c)(2)(ii). All terms in this appendix will follow the definitions in § 82.152 unless otherwise defined in this appendix.
All containers holding two pounds or less of refrigerant for use in an MVAC must comply with other applicable codes and regulations such as local, state, or Federal safety codes and regulations.
This test procedure involves the use of materials under pressure and operations and should only be used by or under the supervision of those familiar and experienced in the use of such materials and operations. Appropriate safety precautions should be observed at all times while performing this test procedure.

# Section 2. Principle and Summary of Test Procedure
This procedure is used to determine the leakage rate of containers holding two pounds or less of refrigerant for use in an MVAC (small cans). Testing will involve subjecting both full and partially empty cans in both upright and inverted positions at two temperatures: 73 °F and 130 °F.
Thirty small cans are tested under each condition for a total of 240 small cans tested. Small cans are brought to temperature stability, weighed, then stored for 30 days under specified conditions of temperature, orientation, and state of fill, then re-weighed. Leakage rate (grams/year) is estimated by (weight loss in grams) x 365/(days duration). The leakage rate is then compared to a standard of 3.00 grams/year to determine if a given small can complies with the leakage rate specified in § 82.154(c)(2)(ii).

# Section 3. Biases and Interferences
3.1 Contaminants on the operator's hands can affect the weight of the small can and the ability of the small can to absorb moisture. To avoid contamination of the small can, the balance operator should wear gloves while handling the small cans.
3.2 Weight determinations can be interfered with by moisture condensing on the small can and by thermal currents generated by temperature differences between the small can and the room temperature. The small cans cool during discharge and could cause condensation. For these reasons, small cans must be equilibrated to balance room temperature for at least four hours before weighing.
3.3 Variations in the temperature, pressure, and humidity of the ambient air will cause variations in the buoyancy of the small can. These variations should typically be less than 25 mg for a small can. If the small can is not leaking at all, then the uncorrected weight changes will be within the range of 0 ± 25 mg, which is about ten percent of the 247 mg loss expected after thirty days for a can leaking at 3 g/yr. In that case buoyancy corrections can be omitted. If the absolute value of the uncorrected weight change exceeds 25 mg, then all calculations must be made using weights corrected for buoyancy based on the temperature, pressure, and humidity of the weighing room.
3.4 Some electronic balances are sensitive to the effects of small static charges. The small can should be placed directly on the balance pan, ensuring metal to metal contact. If the balance pan is not grounded, the small can and balance pan should be statically discharged before weighing.

# Section 4. Sensitivity and Range
The mass of a full small can could range from roughly 50 g to 1000 g depending on the container capacity. A top loading balance, capable of a maximum weight measurement of not less than 1,000 g and having a minimum readability of 0.001 g, reproducibility and linearity of ± 0.002 g, must be used to perform mass measurements.

# Section 5. Equipment
5.1 A top loading balance that meets the requirements of Section 4 above.
5.2 A NIST traceable working standard mass for balance calibration. A NIST traceable working standard mass for a balance linearity check. A reference mass to serve as a “blank” small can.
5.3 An enclosure capable of controlling the internal air temperature from 73 °F ± 5 °F, and an enclosure capable of controlling the internal air temperature to 130 °F ± 5 °F.
5.4 A temperature instrument capable of measuring the internal temperature of the temperature conditioning enclosures and the balance room with a sensitivity of ± 2 °F.
5.5 A barometric pressure instrument capable of measuring atmospheric pressure at the location of the balance to within ± 0.02 inches of mercury.
5.6 A relative humidity measuring instrument capable of measuring the relative humidity (RH) at the location of the balance with a sensitivity of ± 2 percent RH.
5.7 A hose with appropriate fitting for dispensing refrigerant from the small can to a recovery machine.
5.8 A refrigerant recovery machine to collect the discharged refrigerant from small cans being tested.

# Section 6. Calibration Procedures
6.1 Calibrations are applied to the balance and to the support equipment such as temperature, humidity, and pressure monitoring equipment. Procedures for calibration are not spelled out here. General calibration principals for the support equipment and the balance are described in Section 11, Quality Assurance/Quality Control. Detailed calibration procedures for measurements made using the balance are contained in Attachment A: “Balance Protocol for Gravimetric Determination of Sample Weights using a Precision Balance.”

# Section 7. Small Can Preparation
7.1 Receive a batch of 240 small cans of one design to be tested. These may include several SKUs from different manufacturers if the container and valve combination are the same.
7.2 Clean small cans with Alkanox solution or equivalent and dry with a lint free towel.
7.3 Confirm that the sample ID sticker on the small can matches the sample ID on the chain of custody forms.
7.4 Select a reference mass similar to the weight of a full small can. If multiple sets of similar sized small cans are being tested, only one reference mass is needed; it can be used with all sets. Store the reference mass in the balance area.
7.5 Evacuate the contents of one half of the small cans (120 cans) into the refrigerant recovery machine using normal DIY dispensing procedures until each small can is approximately half full.
7.6 Select a reference mass similar to the weight of the half-full small can. If multiple sets of similar size small cans are being tested, only one reference mass is needed; it can be used with all sets. Store the reference mass in the balance area.

# Section 8. Small Can Weighing
Weighing cans on the balance is done in accordance with Attachment A to this appendix. Attachment A describes how to conduct weight determinations including appropriate calibration and QC data. This section, “Small Can Weighing,” describes the overall process, not the details of how to use the balance.

# Initial Weights
8.1 Put on gloves. Check the small cans for contamination.
8.2 Place the 240 small cans into a location where they can equilibrate to balance room temperature. Record the small can test IDs and the equilibration start time on the Small Can Test Data Forms available on EPA's Web site in sets of thirty, one form for each of the eight test conditions.
8.3 Let cans equilibrate for at least four hours.
8.4 Weigh the set of 240 small cans and the reference weights using Attachment A and log the results to the Balance Weighing Log Form available on EPA's Web site.
8.5 Transfer data from the Balance Weighing Log Form to the Small Can Test Data Form in sets of 30, one set for each of the eight conditions to be tested.

# Thirty-Day Soak
8.6 Place each set of 30 small cans into the appropriate orientation and temperature for soaking:
30 full small cans—73 °F, upright
30 full small cans—73 °F, inverted
30 full small cans—130 °F, upright
30 full small cans—130 °F, inverted
30 half-full small cans—73 °F, upright
30 half-full small cans—73 °F, inverted
30 half-full small cans—130 °F, upright
30 half-full small cans—130 °F, inverted
8.7 Soak the small cans for 30 days undisturbed.

# Final Weighing
8.8 Place the 240 small cans into a location where they can equilibrate to balance room temperature.
8.9 Let the small cans equilibrate for at least four hours.
8.10 Weigh the set of 240 small cans, the reference weights, and any additional sets of small cans using Attachment A.
8.11 Transfer data from the Balance Weighing Log Form to the corresponding Small Can Test Data Forms.

# Section 9. Calculations

# Corrections for Buoyancy
The calculations in this section are described in terms of “weight.” Mass is a property of the small can, whereas weight is a force due to the effects of buoyancy and gravity. Procedures for correcting the effect of buoyancy are given in Attachment B of this appendix. Ignoring buoyancy,
i.e.,
using weight data uncorrected for buoyancy effects, is acceptable for a thirty day test if the absolute magnitude of the weight change is less than 25 mg. If the uncorrected weight change exceeds 25 mg for any small can, then correct all small can weights for buoyancy using the procedures in Attachment B before performing the calculations described below.

# Calculation of Leak Rate
The emission rate in grams/day for each small can is calculated by subtracting the final weight from the initial weight and then dividing the weight difference by the time difference measured in days to the nearest hour (nearest 1/24 of a day). The emission rate in g/day is multiplied by 365 to determine emission rate in grams/yr. If the annual emission rate for any small can exceeds the entire small can contents, then the annual emission rate for that small can is adjusted to equal the entire small can contents/year (
e.g.,
about 350 g/yr for a 12 ounce small can). The annual emission rate for the purpose of the test is calculated by averaging the 240 individual adjusted annual emission rates and rounding to two decimal places. The cans fail the test if the adjusted annual emission rate averaged over 240 cans is greater than 3.00 g/yr. The calculations are described below.
Loss rate for each small can
E
i
daily
= (W
i
final
− W
i
initial
)/(D
i
final
− D
i
initial
) g/day
E
i
annual
= 365 × E
i
daily
g/year
E
i
adjusted
= Minimum of (E
i
adjusted
, C
i
/year) g/yr
Where,
E
i
= emission rate
W
i
final
= weight of can
i
after soaking (grams)
W
i
initial
= weight of can I before soaking (grams)
D
i
final
= date/time of final weight measurements (days)
D
i
initial
= date/time of initial weight measurements (days)
C
i
= original factory mass of refrigerant in can
i
Note:
Date/Times are measured in days. Microsoft Excel stores dates and times in days, and the calculations can be made directly in Excel. If calculations are made manually, calculate serial days to the nearest hour for each date and time as follows:
D = Julday + Hour/24
Where,
Julday = serial day of the year: Jan 1 = 1, Jan 31 = 31, Feb 1 = 32, etc.
Hour = hour of day using 24-hour clock, 0 to 23
Calculate the average loss rate for the 240 small cans as follows:
E
mean
= [Sum (E
adjusted
i
),
i
= 1 to 240]/240

# Section 10. Recordkeeping
During small can weighing, record the small can weights and date/times on the Balance Weighing Log Form. After each weighing session, transfer the measured weights and date/times from the Balance Weighing Log Form to the Small Can Test Data Form.
At the end of the test, complete the calculations described in Section 9, Calculations, and record the results on the Small Can Test Data Form.

# Section 11. Quality Assurance/Quality Control
11.1 All temperature, pressure, and humidity instruments should be calibrated annually against NIST traceable laboratory standards. The main purpose of the NIST traceable calibration is to establish the absolute accuracy of the device. The instruments should also be checked periodically such as weekly, monthly, or quarterly against intermediate standards or against independent instruments. For example, a thermocouple can be checked weekly against a wall thermometer. A barometer or pressure gauge can be checked weekly by adjusting to sea level and comparing with local airport data. The main purpose of the frequent checks is to verify that the device has not failed in some way. This is especially important for electronic devices such as a digital thermometer, but even a liquid filled thermometer can develop a problem such as a bubble.
11.2 The balance should be serviced and calibrated annually by an independent balance service company or agency using NIST traceable reference masses. Servicing verifies accuracy and linearity, and the maintenance performed helps ensure that a malfunction does not develop.
11.3 The balance must also be calibrated and its linearity checked with working standards before and after each weighing session, or before and after each group of 24 small cans if more than 24 small cans are weighed in a session. Procedures for calibrating and using the balance, as well as recording balance data, are described in the accompanying balance weighing protocol. These procedures include zero checks, calibration checks, and reference mass checks. Procedures for calculating quality control data from those checks are described in Attachment A.
11.4 The small cans are cleaned then handled using gloves to prevent contamination. All equilibration and soaking must be done in a dust free area.

# Section 12. Balance Protocol for Gravimetric Determination of Sample Weights Using a Precision Balance
12.1
Scope and application
This Protocol summarizes a set of procedures and tolerances for weighing objects in the range of 0 to 1,000 g with a resolution of 0.001 g. This protocol only addresses balance operations, it does not address project requirements for equilibration, sample hold time limits, sample collection etc.
12.2
Summary of method
The balance is zeroed and calibrated using procedures defined herein. Object weight determinations are conducted along with control object weight determinations, zero checks, calibration checks, sensitivity checks, and replicate weightings in a defined sequence designed to control and quantitatively characterize precision and accuracy.
12.3
Definitions
N/A.
12.4
Interferences
Object weights can be affected by temperature and relative humidity of their environment, air currents, static electricity, gain and loss of water vapor, gain or loss of and loss of volatile compounds directly from the sample or from contaminants such as finger prints, marker ink, and adhesive tape.
Contamination, transfer of material to or from the samples, is controlled by conducting operations inside a clean area dedicated to the purpose and having a filtered laminar air flow where possible; by wearing gloves while handling all samples and related balance equipment; by using forceps to handle small objects, and by keeping the balance and all related equipment inside the clean area.
Air currents are controlled by conducting weighing operations inside a closed chamber or glove box and by allowing the substrates to reach temperature and relative humidity equilibrium. The chamber is maintained at 40 percent relative humidity and 25 °C by a continuous humidity and temperature control system. The temperature and RH conditions are recorded at least once per weighing sessions. Equilibration times for samples that are particularly sensitive to humidity or to loss of semi-volatiles species are specified by project requirements.
Static electric charges on the walls of the balance and the weighed objects, including samples, controls, and calibration weights, can significantly affect balance readings. Static is avoided by the operator ground himself and test objects as described in the balance manual.
12.5
Personnel health and safety
N/A
12.6
Equipment and supplies
• Filtered, temperature and humidity controlled weighing chamber.
• Precision Balance
• Plastic forceps
• Nylon fabric gloves.
• Working calibration weights: ANSI Class 2, 1000g and 500 g
• Working sensitivity weight: 50 mg
• Reference objects: references are one or more objects that are typical of the objects to be weighed during a project, but that are stored permanently inside the balance glove box. Reference objects are labeled Test1, Test2, Test3, etc.
12.7
Reagents and standard
N/A
12.8
Sample collection, preservation, and storage
N/A. See relevant project requirements and SOPs.
12.9
Quality control
Data quality is controlled by specifying frequencies and tolerances for Zero, Calibration, Linearity, and Sensitivity checks. If checks do not meet tolerance criteria, then samples must be re-weighed. In addition, the procedures specify frequencies for Control Object Checks.
Data quality is quantitatively characterized using Zero Check, Calibration Check, and Control Check data. These data are summarized monthly in statistics and QC charts.
12.10
Calibration and standardization
The absolute accuracy of the balance is established by calibration against an ANSI Class 2, stainless steel working weight: 1000.000 g ± 0.0025 g. Linearity is established checking the midpoint against an ANSI Class 2 stainless steel working weight: 500.000 ± 0.0012 g. Sensitivity is established using and ANSI Class 2 stainless steel or aluminum working weight: 50 mg. Precision is checked by periodically checking zero, calibration, and reference object weights.
12.11
Procedure
12.11.1
Overview of Weighing Sequence
Weighing a series of substrates consists of performing the following procedures in sequence, while observing the procedures for handling and the procedures for reading the balance:
1. Initial Adjustment
2. Weigh eight samples
3. Zero Check
4. Weigh eight samples
5. Zero Check
6. Weigh eight samples
7. Calibration Check
8. Return to step 2.
9. If less than 24 cans are weighed, perform a final Calibration Check at the end of weighing.
This sequence is interrupted and samples are reweighed if QC check tolerances are not met. Each of these procedures along with procedures for handling and reading the balance are described below. The QC tolerances referred to in these procedures are listed in Table 1.
12.11.2
Handling
1. Never touch samples, weights, balance pans, etc. with bare hands. Wear powder free gloves to handle the weights, controls, and samples.
12.11.3
Reading the Balance
1. Close the door. Wait for the balance stabilization light to come on, and note the reading.
2. Watch the balance reading for 30 sec (use a clock). If the reading has not changed by more than 0.001 g from the reading noted in step 1, then record the reading observed at the end of the 30 sec period.
3. If the reading has drifted more than 0.001 g note the new balance reading and go to step 2.
4. If the balance reading is flickering back and forth between two consecutive values choose the value that is displayed more often than the other.
5. If the balance reading is flickering equally back and forth between two consecutive values choose the higher value.
12.11.4
Initial Adjustment
1. Empty the sample pan Close the door. Select Range 1000 g
2. Wait for a stable reading
3. Record the reading with QC code IZC (initial zero check)
4. Press the Tare button
5. Record the reading in the logbook with QC code IZA (initial zero adjust)
6. Place the 1,000 g working calibration weight on the balance pan
7. Wait for a stable reading.
8. Record the reading with QC code ICC (initial cal check)
9. Press the Calibrate button
10. Record the reading with QC code ICA (initial cal adjust)
11. Remove the calibration weight.
12. Wait for a stable reading.
13. Record the reading with QC code IZC.
14. If the zero reading exceeds ± 0.002 g, go to step 4.
15. Place the 500 g calibration weight on the balance pan
16. After a stable reading, record the reading with QC code C500. Do not adjust the balance.
17. Add the 0.050 g weight to 500 g weight on the balance pan.
18. After a stable reading, record the reading with QC code C0.05. Do not adjust the balance.
19. Weigh reference object TEST1, record reading with QC code T1.
20. Weigh the reference object TEST2, TEST3, etc. that is similar in weight to the samples that you will be weighing. Record with QC code T2, T3, etc.
12.11.5
Zero Check
1. Empty the sample pan. Close the door.
2. Wait for a stable reading
3. Record the reading with QC code ZC
4. If the ZC reading is less than or equal to the zero adjustment tolerance shown in Table 1, return to weighing and
do not adjust the zero.
If the ZC reading exceeded the zero adjustment tolerance, proceed with steps 5 through 7.
5. Press the Tare button
6. Record the reading in the logbook with QC code ZA.
7. If the ZC reading exceeded the zero re-weigh tolerance, change the QC code recorded in step 3 from ZC to FZC. Then
enter a QC code of FZ into the QC code column of all samples weights obtained after the last valid zero check. Re- weigh all of those samples, recording new data in new rows of the logbook.
12.11.6
Calibration Check
1. First, follow procedures for Zero Check. If the ZC was within tolerance, tare the balance anyway (
i.e.,
follow steps 5 and 6 of the Zero Check method)
2. Place the 1,000 g working calibration weight on the sample pan, wait for a stable reading.
3. Record the reading with QC code C1000
4. If the C1000 reading is less than or equal to the calibration adjustment tolerances, skip steps 5 through 8 and proceed to step 9.
Do not adjust the calibration.
5. If the C100 reading exceeded the calibration adjust tolerance, press the Calibrate button.
6. Record the reading in the logbook with QC code CA
7. Perform a Zero Check (follow the Zero Check method)
8. If the C1000 reading exceeded the calibration re-weigh tolerance, change the code recorded in step 3 from C1000 to FC1000. Enter FC into the QC column for all sample weights obtained after the last valid calibration check. Re-weigh all of those samples, recording new data in new rows of the logbook.
12.11.7
Replicate Weighing Check
1. This protocol does not include reweigh samples to obtain replicates. The projects for which this protocol is intended already include procedures multiple weightings of each sample.
Table 1—QC Tolerances and Frequencies for Balance Protocol
Reading Tolerance:
0.001 g, stable for 30 sec.
Adjustment Tolerances:
Zero:
−0.003 to +0.003 g.
Calibration:
999.997 to 1000.003 g.
Controls:
none.
Replicates:
none.
Re-weigh Tolerances:
Zero:
−0.005 to +0.005 g.
Calibration:
999.995 to 1000.005 g.
Controls:
none.
Replicates:
none.
Reference Objects:
Test 1—A reference object weighing about 400 g.
Test 2—A reference object weighing about 200 g.
Test 3—A reference object weighing about 700 g.
QC Frequencies:
Zero Checks:
once per 8 samples.
Calibration Checks:
once per 24 samples.
Repeat weighings:
none (test method includes replicate determinations).
Control objects:
once per weighing session.
12.12
Data analysis and calculations
For Zero Checks, let Z equal the recorded Zero Check value. For control checks let T1, T2, etc. equal the recorded value for control object Test 1, Test 2, etc. For Calibration Checks, let C1000 equal C1000 reading minus 1000, M = C500—500, S = .C.050—C500—.050. For Replicate Checks, let D equal the loss that occurred between the first and second measurements. In summary:
T1 = T1
T2 = T2
T3 = T3
Z = ZC—0
C = C1000—1000
M = C500—500
G = C050—C500—.050
Tabulate the mean and standard deviation for each of the following: Z, C, M, G. T1, T2, T3. Depending on the number of operators using the balance and the number of protocols in use, analyze the data by subcategories to determine the effects of balance operator and protocol. Each of these standard deviations, S
Z
, S
C
, etc. is an estimate of the precision of single weight measurement.
For Z, C, M, and G, check the mean value for statistical difference from 0. If the means are statistically different than zero, troubleshooting to eliminate bias may be called for. For Z, C, M, G, T1, T2, T3, check that the standard deviations are all comparable. If there are systematic differences, then troubleshooting to eliminate the problem may be called for.
Note that the precision of a weight gain, involves two weight determinations, and therefore is larger than S by a factor of sqrt(2). On the other hand replicate weighings improves the precision of the determinations by a factor of sqrt(N). If N = 2,
i.e.,
duplicates, then the factors cancel each other.
To estimate the overall uncertainty in a weight determination, a conservative estimate might be to combine the imprecision contributed by the zero with the imprecision contributed by the calibration.
U = Sqrt(S
Z
2
+ S
C
2
)
The uncertainty in a weight gain from N replicates is then given by:
U
gain
= Sqrt(2) × Sqrt(S
Z
2
+ S
C
2
)/Sqrt(N)
But due to the balance adjustment and reweigh tolerances, we expect S
Z
to approximately equal S
C
, to approximately equal S
M
, etc. tolerances, so that the equation above becomes:
U
gain
= 2 × S/Sqrt(N)
Where S is any individual standard deviation; or better, a pooled standard deviation.
12.13
Method performance
The data necessary to characterize the accuracy and precision of this method are still being collected. The method is used primarily to weigh objects before and after a period of soaking to determine weight loss by subtraction. Given the reweigh tolerances, we expect that the precision of weight gain determinations will be on the order of 0.006 g at the 1-sigma level. Bias in the weight gain determination, due to inaccuracy of the calibration weight and to fixed non-linearity of the balance response is on the order 0.005 percent of the gain.
12.14
Pollution prevention
When discharging half the can contents during can preparation, do not vent the contents of the small can to the atmosphere. Use an automotive recovery machine to transfer small can contest to a recovery cylinder.
12.15
Waste management
Dispose of the contents of the recycle cylinder through a service that consolidates waste for shipment to EPA certified facilities for reclaiming or destruction.

# Section 13. Compensation of Weight Data for Buoyancy and Gravity Effects
13.1
Gravity
Variations in gravity are important only when weighing objects under different gravitational fields,
i.e.,
at different locations or at different heights. Since the balance procedures calibrate the balance against a known mass (the calibration “weight”) at the same location where sample objects are weighed, there is no need to correct for location. Although both the sample and the calibration weight are used at the same location, there will be a difference in the height of the center of gravity of the sample object (small can) and the center of gravity of the reference mass (calibration weight). However, this difference in height is maintained during both the initial weights and final weights, affecting the initial and final weights by the same amount, and affecting the scale of the weight difference by only a few ppm. In any event, the magnitude of this correction is on the order of 0.3 ug per kg per mm of height difference. A difference on the order of 100 mm would thus yield a weight difference of about 0.03 mg, which is insignificant compared to our balance resolution which is 0.001 g or 1 mg.
Based on the discussion above, no corrections for gravity are necessary when determining weight changes in small cans.
13.2
Buoyancy
Within a weighing session, the difference in density between the sample object and the calibration weight will cause the sample object weight value to differ from its mass value due to buoyancy. For a 1-liter object in air at 20 °C and at 1 atm, the buoyant force is about 1.2 g. The volume of a 1 kg object with a density of 8 g/cm
3
(
e.g.,
a calibration weight), is about 0.125 liters, and the buoyancy force is about 0.15 g. Variations in air density will affect both of these values in proportion. The net value being affected by variations in air density is thus on the order of 1.2 − 0.15 = 1.05 g. Air density can vary up or down by 2 percent or more due to variations in barometric pressure, temperature, and humidity. The buoyancy force will then vary up or down by 0.02 g, or 20 mg. This is significant compared to the weight change expected after one week for a can leaking at 3 grams per year, which is 57 mg.
Based on the discussion above, buoyancy corrections must be made.
Variables measured or calculated:
V
can
= volume of can (cm
3
). Estimate to within 10 percent by measuring the can dimensions or by water displacement. Error in the can volume will cause an error in the absolute amount of the buoyancy force, but will have only a small effect on the change in buoyancy force from day to day.
W
can
= nominal weight of a can (g), used to calculate the nominal density of the can.
ρ
can
= nominal density of a small can (g/cm
3
). The nominal values can be applied to corrections for all cans. It is not necessary to calculate a more exact density for each can. Calculate once for a full can and once for a half full can as follows:
ρ
can
= Wcan /Vcan
T = Temperature in balance chamber (degrees Celsius).
RH = Relative humidity in balance chamber (expressed a number between 0 and 100).
P
baro
= Barometric pressure in balance chamber (millibar). Use actual pressure, NOT pressure adjusted to sea level.
ρ
air
= density of air in the balance chamber (g/cm
3
). Calculate using the following approximation:
ρ
air
= 0.001*[0.348444*P
baro
−(RH/100) × (0.252 × T−2.0582)]/(T + 273.15)
ρ
ref
= the reference density of the calibration weight (g/cm
3
). Should be 8.0 g/cm
3
.
Equation to correct for buoyancy: W
corrected
= W
reading
× (1—ρ
air
/ρ
ref
)/(1—ρ
air
/ρ
can
)
[81 FR 82392, Nov. 18, 2016]

# Subpart G—Significant New Alternatives Policy Program

# Source:
59 FR 13147, Mar. 18, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 82.170
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of these regulations in this subpart is to implement section 612 of the Clean Air Act, as amended, regarding the safe alternatives policy on the acceptability of substitutes for ozone-depleting compounds. This program will henceforth be referred to as the “Significant New Alternatives Policy” (SNAP) program. The objectives of this program are to identify substitutes for ozone-depleting compounds, to evaluate the acceptability of those substitutes, to promote the use of those substitutes believed to present lower overall risks to human health and the environment, relative to the class I and class II compounds being replaced, as well as to other substitutes for the same end-use, and to prohibit the use of those substitutes found, based on the same comparisons, to increase overall risks.
(b) The regulations in this subpart describe persons and substitutes subject to reporting requirements under the SNAP program and explain preparation and submission of notices and petitions on substitutes. The regulations also establish Agency procedures for reviewing and processing EPA's determinations regarding notices and petitions on substitutes. Finally, the regulations prohibit the use of alternatives which EPA has determined may have adverse effects on human health or the environment where EPA has identified alternatives in particular industrial use sectors that on an overall basis, reduce risk to human health and the environment and are currently or potentially available. EPA will only prohibit substitutes where it has identified other substitutes for a specific application that are acceptable and are currently or potentially available.
(c) Notifications, petitions and other materials requested shall be sent to: SNAP Document Control Officer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (6205-J), 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460.
§ 82.172
Definitions.
Act
means the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.
Agency
means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Application
means a specific use within a major industrial sector end-use.
Class I or class II
means the specific ozone-depleting compounds described in section 602 of the Act.
Decision
means any final determination made by the Agency under section 612 of the Act on the acceptability or unacceptability of a substitute for a class I or II compound.
EPA
means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
End-use
means processes or classes of specific applications within major industrial sectors where a substitute is used to replace an ozone-depleting substance.
Formulator
means any person engaged in the preparation or formulation of a substitute, after chemical manufacture of the substitute or its components, for distribution or use in commerce.
Health and safety study
or
study
means any study of any effect of a substitute or its components on health and safety, or the environment or both, including underlying data and epidemiological studies, studies of occupational, ambient, and consumer exposure to a substitute, toxicological, clinical, and ecological, or other studies of a substitute and its components, and any other pertinent test. Chemical identity is always part of a health and safety study. Information which arises as a result of a formal, disciplined study is included in the definition. Also included is information relating to the effects of a substitute or its components on health or the environment. Any available data that bear on the effects of a substitute or its components on health or the environment would be included. Examples include:
(1) Long- and short-term tests of mutagenicity, carcinogenicity, or teratogenicity; data on behavioral disorders; dermatoxicity; pharmacological effects; mammalian absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion; cumulative, additive, and synergistic effects; acute, subchronic, and chronic effects; and structure/activity analyses;
(2) Tests for ecological or other environmental effects on invertebrates, fish, or other animals, and plants, including: Acute toxicity tests, chronic toxicity tests, critical life stage tests,
behavioral tests, algal growth tests, seed germination tests, microbial function tests, bioconcentration or bioaccumulation tests, and model ecosystem (microcosm) studies;
(3) Assessments of human and environmental exposure, including workplace exposure, and effects of a particular substitute on the environment, including surveys, tests, and studies of: Biological, photochemical, and chemical degradation; air, water and soil transport; biomagnification and bioconcentration; and chemical and physical properties, e.g., atmospheric lifetime, boiling point, vapor pressure, evaporation rates from soil and water, octanol/water partition coefficient, and water solubility;
(4) Monitoring data, when they have been aggregated and analyzed to measure the exposure of humans or the environment to a substitute; and
(5) Any assessments of risk to health or the environment resulting from the manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, use, or disposal of the substitute or its components.
Importer
means any person who imports a chemical substitute into the United States.
Importer
includes the person primarily liable for the payment of any duties on the merchandise or an authorized agent acting on his or her behalf. The term also includes, as appropriate:
(1) The consignee;
(2) The importer of record;
(3) The actual owner; and
(4) The transferee, if the right to draw merchandise in a bonded warehouse has been transferred.
Major Industrial Use Sector or Sector
means an industrial category which EPA has reviewed under the SNAP program with historically high consumption patterns of ozone-depleting substances, including: Refrigeration and air conditioning; foam-blowing; fire suppression and explosion protection; solvents cleaning; aerosols; sterilants; tobacco expansion; pesticides; and adhesives, coatings and inks sectors.
Manufacturer
means any person engaged in the direct manufacture of a substitute.
Mixture
means any mixture or blend of two or more compounds.
Person
includes an individual, corporation, partnership, association, state, municipality, political subdivision of a state, and any agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States and any officer, agent, or employee of such entities.
Pesticide
has the meaning contained in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, 7 U.S.C. 136
et seq.
and the regulations issued under it.
Potentially available
is defined as any alternative for which adequate health, safety, and environmental data, as required for the SNAP notification process, exist to make a determination of acceptability, and which the Agency reasonably believes to be technically feasible, even if not all testing has yet been completed and the alternative is not yet produced or sold.
Premanufacture Notice (PMN) Program
has the meaning described in 40 CFR part 720, subpart A promulgated under the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. 2601
et seq.
Producer
means any person who manufactures, formulates or otherwise creates a substitute in its final form for distribution or use in interstate commerce.
Research and development
means quantities of a substitute manufactured, imported, or processed or proposed to be manufactured, imported, or processed solely for research and development.
Residential use
means use by a private individual of a chemical substance or any product containing the chemical substance in or around a permanent or temporary household, during recreation, or for any personal use or enjoyment. Use within a household for commercial or medical applications is not included in this definition, nor is use in automobiles, watercraft, or aircraft.
Significant new use
means use of a new or existing substitute in a major industrial use sector as a result of the phaseout of ozone-depleting compounds.
Small uses
means any use of a substitute in a sector other than a major industrial use sector, or production by any producer for use of a substitute in a major industrial sector of 10,000 lbs. or less per year.
Substitute or alternative
means any chemical, product substitute, or alternative manufacturing process, whether existing or new, intended for use as a replacement for a class I or II compound.
Test marketing
means the distribution in interstate commerce of a substitute to no more than a limited, defined number of potential customers to explore market viability in a competitive situation. Testing must be restricted to a defined testing period before the broader distribution of that substitute in interstate commerce.
Use
means any use of a substitute for a Class I or Class II ozone-depleting compound, including but not limited to use in a manufacturing process or product, in consumption by the end-user, or in intermediate uses, such as formulation or packaging for other subsequent uses.
Use restrictions
means restrictions on the use of a substitute imposing either conditions on how the substitute can be used across a sector end-use or limits on the end-uses or specific applications where it can be used within a sector.
§ 82.174
Prohibitions.
(a) No person may introduce a new substitute into interstate commerce before the expiration of 90 days after a notice is initially submitted to EPA under § 82.176(a).
(b) No person may use a substitute which a person knows or has reason to know was manufactured, processed or imported in violation of the regulations in this subpart, or knows or has reason to know was manufactured, processed or imported in violation of any use restriction in the acceptability determination, after the effective date of any rulemaking imposing such restrictions.
(c) No person may use a substitute without adhering to any use restrictions set by the acceptability decision, after the effective date of any rulemaking imposing such restrictions.
(d) No person may use a substitute after the effective date of any rulemaking adding such substitute to the list of unacceptable substitutes.
(e)
Rules Stayed for Reconsideration.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, the effectiveness of subpart G is stayed from December 8, 1994, to March 8, 1995, only as applied to use of substitutes for export.
[59 FR 13147, Mar. 18, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 63256, Dec. 8, 1994; 60 FR 3303, Jan. 13, 1995]
§ 82.176
Applicability.
(a) Any producer of a new substitute must submit a notice of intent to introduce a substitute into interstate commerce 90 days prior to such introduction. Any producer of an existing substitute already in interstate commerce must submit a notice as of July 18, 1994, if such substitute has not already been reviewed and approved by the Agency.
(b) With respect to the following substitutes, producers are exempt from notification requirements:
(1)
Substitutes already listed as acceptable.
Producers need not submit notices on substitutes that are already listed as acceptable under SNAP.
(2)
Small sectors.
Persons using substitutes in sectors other than the nine principal sectors reviewed under this program are exempt from the notification requirements. This exemption shall not be construed to nullify an unacceptability determination or to allow use of an otherwise unacceptable substitute.
(3)
Small volume use within SNAP sectors.
Within the nine principal SNAP sectors, persons introducing a substitute whose expected volume of use amounts to less than 10,000 lbs. per year within a SNAP sector are exempt from notification requirements. This exemption shall not be construed to allow use of an otherwise unacceptable substitute in any quantity. Persons taking advantage of this exemption for small uses must maintain documentation for each substitute describing how the substitute meets this small use definition. This documentation must include annual production and sales information by sector.
(4)
Research and development.
Production of substitutes for the sole purpose of research and development is exempt from reporting requirements.
(5)
Test marketing.
Use of substitutes for the sole purpose of test marketing
is exempt from SNAP notification requirements until 90 days prior to the introduction of such substitutes for full-scale commercial sale in interstate commerce. Persons taking advantage of this exemption are, however, required to notify the Agency in writing that they are conducting test marketing 30 days prior to the commencement of such marketing. Notification shall include the name of the substitute, the volume used in the test marketing, intended sector end-uses, and expected duration of the test marketing period.
(6)
Formulation changes.
In cases where replacement of class I or II compounds causes formulators to change other components in a product, formulators are exempt from reporting with respect to these auxiliary formulation changes. However, the SNAP submitter is required to notify the Agency if such changes are expected to significantly increase the environmental and human health risk associated with the use of any class I or class II substitute.
(7)
Substitutes used as feedstocks.
Producers of substitutes used as feedstocks which are largely or entirely consumed, transformed or destroyed in the manufacturing or use process are exempt from reporting requirements concerning such substitutes.
(c) Use of a substitute in the possession of an end-user as of March 18, 1994, listed as unacceptable or acceptable subject to narrowed use limits may continue until the individual end-users' existing supply, as of that date, of the substitute is exhausted. Use of substitutes purchased after March 18, 1994, is not permitted subsequent to April 18, 1994.
§ 82.178
Information required to be submitted.
(a) Persons whose substitutes are subject to reporting requirements pursuant to § 82.176 must provide the following information:
(1)
Name and description of the substitute.
The substitute should be identified by its: Chemical name; trade name(s); identification numbers; chemical formula; and chemical structure.
(2)
Physical and chemical information.
The substitute should be characterized by its key properties including but not limited to: Molecular weight; physical state; melting point; boiling point; density; taste and/or odor threshold; solubility; partition coefficients (Log K
ow
, Log K
oc
); atmospheric lifetime and vapor pressure.
(3)
Substitute applications.
Identification of the applications within each sector end-use in which the substitutes are likely to be used.
(4)
Process description.
For each application identified, descriptive data on processing, including in-place pollution controls.
(5)
Ozone depletion potential.
The predicted 100-year ozone depletion potential (ODP) of substitute chemicals. The submitter must also provide supporting documentation or references.
(6)
Global warming impacts.
Data on the total global warming potential of the substitute, including information on the GWP index and the indirect contributions to global warming caused by the production or use of the substitute (e.g., changes in energy efficiency). GWP must be calculated over a 100, 500 and 1000-year integrated time horizon.
(7)
Toxicity data.
Health and safety studies on the effects of a substitute, its components, its impurities, and its degradation products on any organism (e.g., humans, mammals, fish, wildlife, and plants). For tests on mammals, the Agency requires a minimum submission of the following tests to characterize substitute risks: A range-finding study that considers the appropriate exposure pathway for the specific use (e.g., oral ingestion, inhalation, etc.), and a 90-day subchronic repeated dose study in an appropriate rodent species. For certain substitutes, a cardiotoxicity study is also required. Additional mammalian toxicity tests may be identified based on the substitute and application in question. To sufficiently characterize aquatic toxicity concerns, both acute and chronic toxicity data for a variety of species are required. For this purpose, the Agency requires a minimum data set as described in “Guidelines for Deriving Numerical National Water Quality Criteria for the Protection of Aquatic Organisms and their Uses,” which is available through the National Technical Information Service (#PB 85-227049). Other relevant information and
data summaries, such as the Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS), should also be submitted. To assist in locating any studies previously submitted to EPA and referred to, but not included in a SNAP submission, the submitter must provide citations for the date, type of submission, and EPA Office to which they were submitted, to help EPA locate these quickly.
(8)
Environmental fate and transport.
Where available, information must be submitted on the environmental fate and transport of substitutes. Such data shall include information on bioaccumulation, biodegradation, adsorption, volatility, transformation, and other data necessary to characterize movement and reaction of substitutes in the environment.
(9)
Flammability.
Data on the flammability of a substitute chemical or mixture are required. Specifically, the flash point and flammability limits are needed, as well as information on the procedures used for determining the flammability limits. Testing of blends should identify the compositions for which the blend itself is flammable and include fractionation data on changes in the composition of the blend during various leak scenarios. For substitutes that will be used in consumer applications, documentation of testing results conducted by independent laboratories should be submitted, where available. If a substitute is flammable, the submitter must analyze the risk of fire resulting from the use of such a substitute and assess the effectiveness of measures to minimize such risk.
(10)
Exposure data.
Available modeling or monitoring data on exposures associated with the manufacture, formulation, transport, use and disposal of a substitute. Descriptive process information for each substitute application, as described above, will be used to develop exposure estimates where exposure data are not readily available. Depending on the application, exposure profiles may be needed for workers, consumers, and the general population.
(11)
Environmental release data.
Data on emissions from the substitute application and equipment, as well as on pollutant releases or discharge to all environmental media. Submitters should provide information on release locations, and data on the quantities, including volume, of anticipated waste associated with the use of the substitute. In addition, information on anticipated waste management practices associated with the use of the substitute. Any available information on any pollution controls used or that could be used in association with the substitute (e.g., emissions reduction technologies, wastewater treatment, treatment of hazardous waste) and the costs of such technology must also be submitted.
(12)
Replacement ratio for a chemical substitute.
Information on the replacement ratio for a chemical substitute versus the class I or II substances being replaced. The term “replacement ratio” means how much of a substitute must be used to replace a given quantity of the class I or II substance being replaced.
(13)
Required changes in use technology.
Detail on the changes in technology needed to use the alternative. Such information should include a description of whether the substitute can be used in existing equipment—with or without some retrofit—or only in new equipment. Data on the cost (capital and operating expenditures) and estimated life of any technology modifications should also be submitted.
(14)
Cost of substitute.
Data on the expected average cost of the alternative. In addition, information is needed on the expected equipment lifetime for an alternative technology. Other critical cost considerations should be identified, as appropriate.
(15)
Availability of substitute.
If the substitute is not currently available, the timing of availability of a substitute should be provided.
(16)
Anticipated market share.
Data on the anticipated near-term and long-term nationwide substitute sales.
(17)
Applicable regulations under other environmental statutes.
Information on whether the substitute is regulated under other statutory authorities, in particular the Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and Liability Act, the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, or other titles under the Clean Air Act.
(18)
Information already submitted to the Agency.
Information requested in the SNAP program notice that has been previously submitted to the Agency as part of past regulatory and information-gathering activities may be referenced rather than resubmitted. Submitters who cannot provide accurate references to data sent previously to the Agency should include all requested information in the SNAP notice.
(19)
Information already available in the literature.
If any of the data needed to complete the SNAP program notice are available in the public literature, complete references for such information should be provided.
(b) The Significant New Alternatives Policy (SNAP) Information Notice is designed to provide the Agency with the information necessary to reach a decision on the acceptability of a substitute.
(1) Submitters requesting review under the SNAP program should send the completed SNAP notice to: SNAP Document Control Officer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (6205-J), 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460.
(2) Submitters filing jointly under SNAP and the Premanufacture Notice Program (PMN) should send the SNAP addendum along with the PMN form to: PMN Document Control Officer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (7407), 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460. Submitters must also send both documents to the SNAP program, with a reference to indicate the notice has been furnished to the Agency under the PMN program. Submitters providing information on new chemicals for joint review under the TSCA and SNAP programs may be required to supply additional toxicity data under TSCA section 5.
(3) Submitters filing jointly under SNAP and under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act should send the SNAP form to the Office of Pesticide Programs, Registration Division, (7505C) 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460, as well as to the SNAP Document Control Officer.
§ 82.180
Agency review of SNAP submissions.
(a)
Processing of SNAP notices
—(1)
90-day review process.
The 90-day review process will begin once EPA receives a submission and determines that such submission includes data on the substitute that are complete and adequate, as described in § 82.178. The Agency may suspend or extend the review period to allow for submission of additional data needed to complete the review of the notice.
(2)
Initial review of notice.
The SNAP Document Control Officer will review the notice to ensure that basic information necessary to process the submission is present (i.e., name of company, identification of substitute, etc.). The SNAP Document Control Officer will also review substantiation of any claim of confidentiality.
(3)
Determination of data adequacy.
Upon receipt of the SNAP submission, the Agency will review the completeness of the information supporting the application. If additional data are needed, the submitter will be contacted following completion of this review. The 90-day review period will not commence until EPA has received data it judges adequate to support analysis of the submission.
(4)
Letter of receipt.
The SNAP Document Control Officer will send a letter of receipt to the submitter to confirm the date of notification and the beginning of EPA's 90-day review period. The SNAP Document Control Officer will also assign the SNAP notice a tracking number, which will be identified in the letter of receipt.
(5)
Availability of new information during review period.
If critical new information becomes available during the review period that may influence the Agency's evaluation of a substitute, the submitter must notify the Agency about the existence of such information within 10 days of learning of such data. The submitter must also inform the Agency of new studies underway, even if the results will not be available within the 90-day review period. The Agency may contact the submitter to
explore extending or suspending the review period depending on the type of information received and the stage of review.
(6)
Completion of detailed review.
Once the initial data review, described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, has been completed, the Agency will complete a detailed evaluation of the notice. If during any time the Agency perceives a lack of information necessary to reach a SNAP determination, it will contact the submitter and request the missing data.
(7)
Criteria for review.
To determine whether a substitute is acceptable or unacceptable as a replacement for class I or II compounds, the Agency will evaluate:
(i) Atmospheric effects and related health and environmental impacts;
(ii) General population risks from ambient exposure to compounds with direct toxicity and to increased ground-level ozone;
(iii) Ecosystem risks;
(iv) Occupational risks;
(v) Consumer risks;
(vi) Flammability; and
(vii) Cost and availability of the substitute.
(8)
Communication of decision
—(i)
Communication of decision to the submitter.
Once the SNAP program review has been completed, the Agency will notify the submitter in writing of the decision. Sale or manufacture of new substitutes may commence after the initial 90-day notification period expires even if the Agency fails to reach a decision within the 90-day review period or fails to communicate that decision or the need for additional data to the submitter. Sale or manufacture of existing substitutes may continue throughout the Agency's 90-day review.
(ii)
Communication of decision to the public.
The Agency will publish in the
Federal Register
periodic updates to the list of the acceptable and unacceptable alternatives that have been reviewed to date. In the case of substitutes proposed as acceptable with use restrictions, proposed as unacceptable or proposed for removal from either list, a rulemaking process will ensue. Upon completion of such rulemaking, EPA will publish revised lists of substitutes acceptable subject to use conditions or narrowed use limits and unacceptable substitutes to be incorporated into the Code of Federal Regulations. (See Appendices to this subpart.)
(b)
Types of listing decisions.
When reviewing substitutes, the Agency will list substitutes in one of five categories:
(1)
Acceptable.
Where the Agency has reviewed a substitute and found no reason to prohibit its use, it will list the alternative as acceptable for the end-uses listed in the notice.
(2)
Acceptable subject to use conditions.
After reviewing a notice, the Agency may make a determination that a substitute is acceptable only if conditions of use are met to minimize risks to human health and the environment. Where users intending to adopt a substitute acceptable subject to use conditions must make reasonable efforts to ascertain that other alternatives are not feasible due to safety, performance or technical reasons, documentation of this assessment must be retained on file for the purpose of demonstrating compliance. This documentation shall include descriptions of substitutes examined and rejected, processes or products in which the substitute is needed, reason for rejection of other alternatives, e.g., performance, technical or safety standards. Use of such substitutes in ways that are inconsistent with such use conditions renders them unacceptable.
(3)
Acceptable subject to narrowed use limits.
Even though the Agency can restrict the use of a substitute based on the potential for adverse effects, it may be necessary to permit a narrowed range of use within a sector end-use because of the lack of alternatives for specialized applications. Users intending to adopt a substitute acceptable with narrowed use limits must ascertain that other alternatives are not technically feasible. Companies must document the results of their evaluation, and retain the results on file for the purpose of demonstrating compliance. This documentation shall include descriptions of substitutes examined and rejected, processes or products in which the substitute is needed, reason for rejection of other alternatives, e.g.,
performance, technical or safety standards, and the anticipated date other substitutes will be available and projected time for switching to other available substitutes. Use of such substitutes in applications and end-uses which are not specified as acceptable in the narrowed use limit renders them unacceptable.
(4)
Unacceptable.
This designation will apply to substitutes where the Agency's review indicates that the substitute poses risk of adverse effects to human health and the environment and that other alternatives exist that reduce overall risk.
(5)
Pending.
Submissions for which the Agency has not reached a determination will be described as pending. For all substitutes in this category, the Agency will work with the submitter to obtain any missing information and to determine a schedule for providing the missing information if the Agency wishes to extend the 90-day review period. EPA will use the authority under section 114 of the Clean Air Act to gather this information, if necessary. In some instances, the Agency may also explore using additional statutory provisions (e.g., section 5 of TSCA) to collect the needed data.
(c)
Joint processing under SNAP and TSCA.
The Agency will coordinate reviews of substitutes submitted for evaluation under both the TSCA PMN program and the CAA.
(d)
Joint processing under SNAP and FIFRA.
The Agency will coordinate reviews of substitutes submitted for evaluation under both FIFRA and the CAA.
[59 FR 13147, Mar. 18, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 25592, May 22, 1996; 61 FR 54039, Oct. 16, 1996]
§ 82.182
Confidentiality of data.
(a)
Clean Air Act provisions.
Anyone submitting information must assert a claim of confidentiality at the time of submission for any data they wish to have treated as confidential business information (CBI) under 40 CFR part 2, subpart B. Failure to assert a claim of confidentiality at the time of submission may result in disclosure of the information by the Agency without further notice to the submitter. The submitter should also be aware that under section 114(c), emissions data may not be claimed as confidential.
(b)
Substantiation of confidentiality claims.
At the time of submission, EPA requires substantiation of any confidentiality claims made. Failure to provide any substantiation may result in disclosure of information without further notice by the Agency. All submissions must include adequate substantiation in order for an acceptability determination on a substitute to be published. Moreover, under 40 CFR part 2, subpart B, there are further instances in which confidentiality assertions may later be reviewed even when confidentiality claims are initially received. The submitter will also be contacted as part of such an evaluation process.
(c)
Confidentiality provisions for toxicity data.
In the event that toxicity or health and safety studies are listed as confidential, this information cannot be maintained as confidential where such data are also submitted under TSCA or FIFRA, to the extent that confidential treatment is prohibited under those statutes. However, information contained in a toxicity study that is not health and safety data and is not relevant to the effects of a substance on human health and the environment (e.g., discussion of process information, proprietary blends) can be maintained as confidential subject to 40 CFR part 2, subpart B.
(d)
Joint submissions under other statutes.
Information submitted as part of a joint submission to either SNAP/TSCA or SNAP/FIFRA must adhere to the security provisions of the program offices implementing these statutes. For such submissions, the SNAP handling of such notices will follow the security provisions under these statutes.
§ 82.184
Petitions.
(a)
Who may petition.
Any person may petition the Agency to amend existing listing decisions under the SNAP program, or to add a new substance to any of the SNAP lists.
(b)
Types of petitions.
Five types of petitions exist:
(1) Petitions to add a substitute not previously reviewed under the SNAP program to the acceptable list. This type of petition is comparable to the
90-day notifications, except that it would generally be initiated by entities other than the companies that manufacture, formulate, or otherwise use the substitute. Companies that manufacture, formulate, or use substitutes that want to have their substitutes added to the acceptable list should submit information on the substitute under the 90-day review program;
(2) Petitions to add a substitute not previously reviewed under the SNAP program to the unacceptable list;
(3) Petitions to delete a substitute from the acceptable list and add it to the unacceptable list or to delete a substitute from the unacceptable and add it to the acceptable list;
(4) Petitions to add or delete use restrictions on an acceptability listing.
(5) Petitions to grandfather use of a substitute listed as unacceptable or acceptable subject to use restrictions.
(c)
Content of the petition.
The Agency requires that the petitioner submit information on the type of action requested and the rationale for the petition. Petitions in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section must contain the information described in § 82.178, which lists the items to be submitted in a 90-day notification. For petitions that request the re-examination of a substitute previously reviewed under the SNAP program, the submitter must also reference the prior submittal or existing listing. Petitions to grandfather use of an unacceptable substitute must describe the applicability of the test to judge the appropriateness of Agency grandfathering as established by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia Circuit (see
Sierra Club
v.
EPA,
719 F.2d 436 (D.C. Cir. 1983)). This test includes whether the new rule represents an abrupt departure from previously established practice, the extent to which a party relied on the previous rule, the degree of burden which application of the new rule would impose on the party, and the statutory interest in applying the new rule immediately.
(d)
Petition process.
(1) Notification of affected companies. If the petition concerns a substitute previously either approved or restricted under the SNAP program, the Agency will contact the original submitter of that substitute.
(2)
Review for data adequacy.
The Agency will review the petition for adequacy of data. As with a 90-day notice, the Agency may suspend review until the petitioner submits the information necessary to evaluate the petition. To reach a timely decision on substitutes, EPA may use collection authorities such as those contained in section 114 of the Clean Air Act as amended, as well as information collection provisions of other environmental statutes.
(3)
Review procedures.
To evaluate the petition, the Agency may submit the petition for review to appropriate experts inside and outside the Agency.
(4)
Timing of determinations.
If data are adequate, as described in § 82.180, the Agency will respond to the petition within 90 days of receiving a complete petition. If the petition is inadequately supported, the Agency will query the petitioner to fill any data gaps before the 90-day review period begins, or may deny the petition because data are inadequate.
(5)
Rulemaking procedures.
EPA will initiate rulemaking whenever EPA grants a petition to add a substance to the list of unacceptable substitutes, remove a substance from any list, or change or create an acceptable listing by imposing or deleting use conditions or use limits.
(6)
Communication of decision.
The Agency will inform petitioners within 90 days of receiving a complete petition whether their request has been granted or denied. If a petition is denied, the Agency will publish in the
Federal Register
an explanation of the determination. If a petition is granted, the Agency will publish the revised SNAP list incorporating the final petition decision within 6 months of reaching a determination or in the next scheduled update, if sooner, provided any required rulemaking has been completed within the shorter period.
Pt. 82, Subpt. G, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions and Unacceptable Substitutes
Refrigerants
Unacceptable Substitutes
End-use
Substitute
Decision
Comments
CFC-11 centrifugal chillers (retrofit)
HCFC-141b
Unacceptable
Has a high ODP relative to other alternatives.
CFC-12 centrifugal chillers (retrofit)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can used safely in this end-use.
CFC-11, CFC-12, CFC-113, CFC-114, R-500 centrifugal chillers (new equipment/NIKs)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocabon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
HCFC-141b
Unacceptable
Has a high ODP relative to other alternatives.
CFC-12 reciprocating chillers (retrofit)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12 reciprocating chillers (new equipment/NIKs)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-11, CFC-12, R-502 industrial process refrigeration (retrofit)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
CFC-11, CFC-12, R-502 industrial process refrigeration (new equipment/NIKs)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
CFC-12, R-502 ice skating rinks (retrofit)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-502 ice skating rinks (new equipment/NIKs)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-502 cold storage warehouses (retrofit)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-502 cold storage warehouses (new equipment/NIKs)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-500, R-502 refrigerated transport (retrofit)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-500, R-502 refrigerated transport (new equipment/NIKs)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-502 retail food refrigeration (retrofit)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-502 retail food refrigeration (new equipment/NIKs)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-502 commercial ice machines (retrofit)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-502 commercial ice machines (new equipment/NIKs)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12 vending machines (retrofit)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12 vending machines (new equipment/NIKs)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, water coolers (retrofit)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, water coolers (New equipment/NIKs)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, household refrigerators (retrofit)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, household refrigerators (new equipment/NIKs)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-502 household freezers (retrofit)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, 502 household freezers (new equipment/NIKs)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-500 residential dehumidifiers (retrofit)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-500 residential dehumidifiers (new equipment/NIKs)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, motor vehicle air conditioners (retrofit)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, motor vehicle air conditioners (new equipment/NIKs)
HCFC-22/HFC-142b/CFC-12
Unacceptable
As a blend of both Class I and Class II substances, it has a higher ODP than use of Class II substances.
Hydrocarbon blend A
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be sued safely in this end-use.
Foams
Unacceptable Substitutes
End-use
Substitute
Decision
Comments
CFC-11 Polyolefin
HCFC-141b (or blends thereof)
Unacceptable
HCFC-141b has an ODP of 0.11, almost equivalent to that of methyl chloroform, a Class I substance. The Agency believes that non-ODP alternatives are sufficiently available to render the use of HCFC-141b unnecessary in polyolefin foams.
Substitutes Acceptable Subject to Narrowed Use Limits
End-use
Substitute
Decision
Comments
Electronics cleaning w/CFC-113, MCF
Perfluoro-carbons (C5F12, C6F12, C6F14, C7F16, C8F18, C5F11NO, C6F13NO, C7F15NO, and C8F16)
Acceptable for high-performance, precision-engineered applications only where reasonable efforts have been made to ascertain that other alternatives are not technically feasible due to performance or safety requirements
The principal environmental characteristic of concern for PFCs is that they have long atmospheric lifetimes and high global warming potentials. Although actual contributions to global warming depend upon the quantities of PFCs emitted, the effects are for practical purposes irreversible.
Users must observe this limitation on PFC acceptability by conducting a reasonable evaluation of other substitutes to determine that PFC use is necessary to meet performance or safety requirements. Documentation of this evaluation must be kept on file.
For additional guidance regarding applications in which PFCs may be appropriate, users should consult the Preamble for this rulemaking.
Precision cleaning w/CFC-113, MCF
Perfluoro-carbons (C5F12, C6F12, C6F14, C7F16, C8F18, C5F11NO, C6F13NO, C7F15NO, and C8F16)
Acceptable for high-performance, precision-engineered applications only where reasonable efforts have been made to ascertain that other alternatives are not technically feasible due to performance or safety requirements
The principal environmental characteristic of concern for PFCs is that they have long atmospheric lifetimes and high global warming potentials. Although actual contributions to global warming depend upon the quantities of PFCs emitted, the effects are for practical purposes irreversible.
Users must observe this limitation on PFC acceptability by conducting a reasonable evaluation of other substitutes to determine that PFC use is necessary to meet performance or safety requirements. Documentation of this evaluation must be kept on file.
For additional guidance regarding applications in which PFCs may be appropriate, users should consult the Preamble for this rulemaking.
Unacceptable Substitutes
End-use
Substitute
Decision
Comments
Metals cleaning w/CFC-113
HCFC 141b and its blends
Unacceptable
High ODP; other alternatives exist. Effective date: As of 30 days after final rule for uses in new equipment (including retrofits made after the effective date); as of January 1, 1996, for uses in existing equipment. EPA will grant, if necessary, narrowed use acceptability listings for CFC-113 past the effective date of the prohibition.
Metals cleaning w/MCF
HCFC 141b and its blends
Unacceptable
High ODP; other alternatives exist. Effective date: As of 30 days after final rule for uses in new equipment (including retrofits made after the effective date); as of January 1, 1996, for uses in existing equipment.
Electronics cleaning w/CFC-113
HCFC 141b and its blends
Unacceptable
High ODP; other alternatives exist. Effective date: As of 30 days after final rule for uses in new equipment (including retrofits made after the effective date); as of January 1, 1996, for uses in existing equipment. EPA will grant, if necessary, narrowed use acceptability listings for CFC-113 past the effective date of the prohibition.
Electronics cleaning w/MCF
HCFC 141b and its blends
Unacceptable
High ODP; other alternatives exist. Effective date: As of 30 days after final rule for uses in new equipment (including retrofits made after the effective date); as of January 1, 1996, for uses in existing equipment.
Precision cleaning w/CFC-113
HCFC 141b and its blends
Unacceptable
High ODP; other alternatives exist. Effective date: As of 30 days after final rule for uses in new equipment (including retrofits made after the effective date); as of January 1, 1996, for uses in existing equipment. EPA will grant, if necessary, narrowed use acceptability listings for CFC-113 past the effective date of the prohibition.
Precision cleaning w/MCF
HCFC 141b and its blends
Unacceptable
High ODP; other alternatives exist. Effective date: As of 30 days after final rule for uses in new equipment (including retrofits made after the effective date); as of January 1, 1996, for uses in existing equipment.
Fire Suppression and Explosion Protection Streaming Agents
Substitutes Acceptable Subject to Narrowed Use Limits
End-use
Substitute
Decision
Conditions
Comments
Halon 1211 Streaming Agents
[CFC Blend]
Acceptable in nonresidential uses only
Use of CFCs are controlled under CAA section 610 which bans use of CFCs in pressurized dispensers, and therefore are not permitted for use in portable fire extinguishers. EPA will list this agent as proposed unacceptable in the next SNAP proposed rulemaking.
Because CFCs are a Class I substance, production will be phased out by January 1, 1996.
See additional comments 1, 2.
HBFC-22B1
Acceptable in nonresidential uses only
Proper procedures regarding the operation of the extinguisher and ventilation following dispensing the extinguishant is recommended. Worker exposure may be a concern in small office areas.
HBFC-22B1 is considered an interim substitute for Halon 1211. Because the HBFC-22B1 has an ODP of .74, production will be phased out (except for essential uses) on January 1, 1996.
This agent was submitted to the Agency as a Premanufacture Notice (PMN) and is presently subject to requirements contained in a Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA) Consent Order.
See additional comments 1, 2.
C
6
F
14
Acceptable for nonresidential uses where other alternatives are not technically feasible due to performance or safety requirements:
Users must observe the limitations on PFC acceptability by making reasonable effort to undertake the following measures:
(i) conduct an evaluation of foreseeable conditions of end use;
(ii) determine that the physical or chemical properties or other technical constraints of the other available agents preclude their use; and
a. due to the physical or chemical properties of the agent, or
(iii) determine that human exposure to the other alternative extinguishing agents may approach or result in cardiosensitization or other unacceptable toxicity effects under normal operating conditions;
Documentation of such measures must be available for review upon request.
b. where human exposure to the extinguishing agent may approach cardiosensitization levels or result in other unacceptable health effects under normal operating conditions
The principal environmental characteristic of concern for PFCs is that they have high GWPs and long atmospheric lifetimes. Actual contributions to global warming depend upon the quantities of PFCs emitted.
For additional guidance regarding applications in which PFCs may be appropriate, users should consult the description of potential uses which is included in the preamble to this rulemaking.
See additional comments 1, 2.
Additional Comments:
1—Discharge testing and training should be strictly limited only to that which is essential to meet safety or performance requirements.
2—The agent should be recovered from the fire protection system in conjunction with testing or servicing, and recycled for later use or destroyed.
Fire Suppression and Explosion Protection Streaming Agents
Unacceptable Substitutes
End-use
Substitute
Decision
Comments
Halon 1211 Streaming Agents
[CFC-11]
Unacceptable
This agent has been suggested for use on large outdoor fires for which non-ozone depleting alternatives are currently used.
[59 FR 13147, Mar. 18, 1994, as amended at 67 FR 4200, Jan. 29, 2002]
Pt. 82, Subpt. G, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions and Unacceptable Substitutes
Refrigerants—Acceptable Subject to Use Conditions
Application
Substitute
Decision
Conditions
Comments
CFC-12 Automobile Motor Vehicle Air Conditioning (New Equipment/NIKs only)
HFC-134a
Acceptable subject to use conditions, for passenger cars and light-duty trucks manufactured for Model Year 2020 or earlier, and for vehicles other than passenger cars or light-duty trucks
—must be used with unique fittings
—must be used with detailed labels
EPA is concerned that the existence of several substitutes in this end-use may increase the likelihood of significant refrigerant cross-contamination and potential failure of both air conditioning systems and recovery/recycling equipment.
CFC-12 Automobile Motor Vehicle Air Conditioning (New Equipment/NIKs only)
HCFC Blend Beta (R-416A)
Acceptable subject to use conditions, for passenger cars and light-duty trucks manufactured for Model Year 2016 or earlier, and for vehicles other than passenger cars or light-duty trucks
—must be used with unique fittings
—must be used with detailed labels
EPA is concerned that the existence of several substitutes in this end-use may increase the likelihood of significant refrigerant cross-contamination and potential failure of both air conditioning systems and recovery/recycling equipment.
CFC-12 Automobile Motor Vehicle Air Conditioning (New Equipment/NIKs only)
R-401C
Acceptable subject to use conditions
—must be used with unique fittings
—must be used with detailed labels
EPA is concerned that the existence of several substitutes in this end-use may increase the likelihood of significant refrigerant cross-contamination and potential failure of both air conditioning systems and recovery/recycling equipment.
CFC-12 Automobile Motor Vehicle Air Conditioning (Retrofit Equipment only)
HFC-134a, R-401C, HCFC Blend Beta (R-416A)
Acceptable subject to use conditions
—must be used with unique fittings
—must be used with detailed labels
—all CFC-12 must be removed from the system prior to retrofitting
Refer to the text for a full description
EPA is concerned that the existence of several substitutes in this end-use may increase the likelihood of significant refrigerant cross-contamination and potential failure of both air conditioning systems and recovery/recycling equipment. No distinction is made between “retrofit” and “drop-in” refrigerants; retrofitting a car to use a new refrigerant includes all procedures that result in the air conditioning system using a new refrigerant.
CFC-12 Automobile Motor Vehicle Air Conditioning (New equipment only)
R-152a as a substitute for CFC-12
Acceptable subject to use conditions
Engineering strategies and/or devices shall be incorporated into the system such that foreseeable leaks into the passenger compartment do not result in R-152a concentrations of 3.7% v/v or above in any part of the free space1inside the passenger compartment for more than 15 seconds when the car ignition is on
Manufacturers must adhere to all the safety requirements listed in the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) Standard J639 (adopted 2011), including unique fittings and a flammable refrigerant warning label as well as SAE Standard J2773 (adopted February 2011)
Additional training for service technicians recommended.
Manufacturers should conduct and keep on file failure mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) on the MVAC as stated in SAE J1739.
CFC-12 Automobile Motor Vehicle Air Conditioning (New equipment in passenger cars and light-duty trucks only)
HFO-1234yf as a substitute for CFC-12
Acceptable subject to use conditions
As of June 3, 2022:
(1) HFO-1234yf MVAC systems must adhere to all of the safety requirements of SAE J639,
4 7
including requirements for a flammable refrigerant warning label, high-pressure compressor cutoff switch and pressure relief devices, and unique fittings. For connections with refrigerant containers for use in professional servicing, use fittings must be consistent with SAE J2844.
6 7
For connections with small refrigerant cans for consumer or professional use, use fittings must have a diameter of 0.5 inches, a thread pitch of 16 thread per inch, and a left thread direction, consistent with SAE J2844
(2) Manufacturers must conduct Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) as provided in SAE J1739.
5 7
Manufacturers must keep the FMEA on file for at least three years from the date of creation
Additional training for service technicians recommended.
HFO-1234yf is also known as 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-prop-1-ene (CAS. Reg. No. 754-12-1).
Consistent with EPA's Significant New Use Rule for HFO-1234yf under the Toxic Substances Control Act, commercial users or consumers can only recharge MVAC systems with HFO-1234yf where the original charging of the system with HFO-1234yf was done by the original equipment manufacturer.
Refrigerant containers of HFO-1234yf for use in professional servicing are from 5 lbs. (2.3 L) to 50 lbs. (23 L) in size.
Requirements for handling, storage, and transportation of compressed gases apply to this refrigerant, such as regulations of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration at 29 CFR 1910.101 and the Department of Transportation's requirements at 49 CFR 171-179.
Requirements for handling, storage, and transportation of compressed gases apply to this refrigerant, such as regulations of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration at 29 CFR 1910.101 and the Department of Transportation's requirements at 49 CFR 171-179.
CFC-12 Motor Vehicle Air Conditioning (New equipment only)
Carbon dioxide (CO
2
) as a substitute for CFC-12
Acceptable subject to use conditions
Engineering strategies and/or mitigation devices shall be incorporated such that in the event of refrigerant leaks, the resulting CO
2
concentrations do not exceed:
Additional training for service technicians is recommended.
The short term exposure level (STEL) of 3% or 30,000 ppm averaged over 15 minutes in the passenger free space
1
; and;
The ceiling limit of 4% or 40,000 ppm in the passenger breathing zone.
2
In designing risk mitigation strategies and/or devices, manufacturers should factor in background CO
2
concentrations in the passenger cabin potentially contributed from normal respiration by the maximum number of vehicle occupants.
Vehicle manufacturers must keep records of the tests performed for a minimum period of three years demonstrating that CO
2
refrigerant levels do not exceed the STEL of 3% averaged over 15 minutes in the passenger free space, and the ceiling limit of 4% in the breathing zone
Use of the standards SAE J1052, SAE J2772, and SAE J2773 is recommended as additional reference.
The use of CO
2
in MVAC systems must adhere to the standard conditions identified in SAE Standard J639 (2011 version) including:
Installation of a high pressure system warning label;
Installation of a compressor cut-off switch; and
Use of unique fittings with:
Outside diameter of 16.6 +0/−0.2 mm (0.6535 +0/−0.0078 inches) for the MVAC low-side;
Outside diameter of 18.1 +0/−0.2 mm (0.7126 +0/−0.0078 inches) for the MVAC high-side; and
Outside diameter of 20.955 +0/−0.127 mm (0.825 +0/−0.005 inches) and right-hand thread direction for CO
2
refrigerant service containers.
3
Manufacturers should conduct and keep on file Potential Failure Mode and Effects Analysis in Design [Design FMEA], Potential Failure Mode and Effect Analysis in Manufacturing and Assembly Process [Process FMEA] on the MVAC as stated in SAE J1739.
Motor vehicle air conditioning (newly manufactured medium-duty passenger vehicles)
HFO-1234yf
Acceptable subject to use conditions
As of June 3, 2022:
(1) HFO-1234yf MVAC systems must adhere to all of the safety requirements of SAE J639,
4 7
including requirements for a flammable refrigerant warning label, high-pressure compressor cutoff switch and pressure relief devices, and unique fittings. For connections with refrigerant containers for use in professional servicing, use fittings must be consistent with SAE J2844.
6 7
For connections with small refrigerant cans for consumer or professional use, use fittings must have a diameter of 0.5 inches, a thread pitch of 16 thread per inch, and a left thread direction, consistent with SAE J2844
(2) Manufacturers must conduct Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) as provided in SAE J1739.
5 7
Manufacturers must keep the FMEA on file for at least three years from the date of creation
Additional training for service technicians recommended.
HFO-1234yf is also known as 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-prop-1-ene (CAS. Reg. No. 754-12-1).
Consistent with EPA's Significant New Use Rule for HFO-1234yf under the Toxic Substances Control Act, commercial users or consumers can only recharge MVAC systems with HFO-1234yf where the original charging of the system with HFO-1234yf was done by the original equipment manufacturer.
Motor vehicle air conditioning (newly manufactured heavy-duty pickup trucks)
HFO-1234yf
Acceptable subject to use conditions
As of June 3, 2022:
(1) HFO-1234yf MVAC systems must adhere to all of the safety requirements of SAE J639,
4 7
including requirements for a flammable refrigerant warning label, high-pressure compressor cutoff switch and pressure relief devices, and unique fittings. For connections with refrigerant containers for use in professional servicing, use fittings must be consistent with SAE J2844.
6 7
For connections with small refrigerant cans for consumer or professional use, use fittings must have a diameter of 0.5 inches, a thread pitch of 16 thread per inch, and a left thread direction, consistent with SAE J2844
(2) Manufacturers must conduct Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) as provided in SAE J1739.
5 7
Manufacturers must keep the FMEA on file for at least three years from the date of creation
Additional training for service technicians recommended.
HFO-1234yf is also known as 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-prop-1-ene (CAS No. 754-12-1).
Consistent with EPA's Significant New Use Rule for HFO-1234yf under the Toxic Substances Control Act, commercial users or consumers can only recharge MVAC systems with HFO-1234yf where the original charging of the system with HFO-1234yf was done by the original equipment manufacturer.
Motor vehicle air conditioning (newly manufactured complete heavy-duty vans only)
HFO-1234yf
Acceptable subject to use conditions
As of June 3, 2022:
(1) HFO-1234yf MVAC systems must adhere to all of the safety requirements of SAE J639,
4 7
including requirements for a flammable refrigerant warning label, high-pressure compressor cutoff switch and pressure relief devices, and unique fittings. For connections with refrigerant containers for use in professional servicing, use fittings must be consistent with SAE J2844.
6 7
For connections with small refrigerant cans for consumer or professional use, use fittings must have a diameter of 0.5 inches, a thread pitch of 16 thread per inch, and a left thread direction, consistent with SAE J2844
(2) Manufacturers must conduct Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) as provided in SAE J1739.
5 7
Manufacturers must keep the FMEA on file for at least three years from the date of creation
Additional training for service technicians recommended.
HFO-1234yf is also known as 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-prop-1-ene (CAS No. 754-12-1).
HFO-1234yf is acceptable for complete heavy-duty vans. Complete heavy-duty vans are not altered by a secondary or tertiary manufacturer.
Consistent with EPA's Significant New Use Rule for HFO-1234yf under the Toxic Substances Control Act, commercial users or consumers can only recharge MVAC systems with HFO-1234yf where the original charging of the system with HFO-1234yf was done by the original equipment manufacturer.
Motor vehicle air conditioning (newly manufactured heavy-duty pickup trucks)
HFO-1234yf
Acceptable subject to use conditions
As of June 3, 2022:
(1) HFO-1234yf MVAC systems must adhere to all of the safety requirements of SAE J639,
4 7
including requirements for a flammable refrigerant warning label, high-pressure compressor cutoff switch and pressure relief devices, and unique fittings. For connections with refrigerant containers for use in professional servicing, use fittings must be consistent with SAE J2844.
6 7
For connections with small refrigerant cans for consumer or professional use, use fittings must have a diameter of 0.5 inches, a thread pitch of 16 thread per inch, and a left thread direction, consistent with SAE J2844
(2) Manufacturers must conduct Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) as provided in SAE J1739.
5 7
Manufacturers must keep the FMEA on file for at least three years from the date of creation
Additional training for service technicians recommended.
HFO-1234yf is also known as 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-prop-1-ene (CAS No. 754-12-1).
Consistent with EPA's Significant New Use Rule for HFO-1234yf under the Toxic Substances Control Act, commercial users or consumers can only recharge MVAC systems with HFO-1234yf where the original charging of the system with HFO-1234yf was done by the original equipment manufacturer.
Motor vehicle air conditioning (newly manufactured complete heavy-duty vans only)
HFO-1234yf
Acceptable subject to use conditions
As of June 3, 2022:
(1) HFO-1234yf MVAC systems must adhere to all of the safety requirements of SAE J639,
4 7
including requirements for a flammable refrigerant warning label, high-pressure compressor cutoff switch and pressure relief devices, and unique fittings. For connections with refrigerant containers for use in professional servicing, use fittings must be consistent with SAE J2844.
6 7
For connections with small refrigerant cans for consumer or professional use, use fittings must have a diameter of 0.5 inches, a thread pitch of 16 thread per inch, and a left thread direction, consistent with SAE J2844
(2) Manufacturers must conduct Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) as provided in SAE J1739.
5 7
Manufacturers must keep the FMEA on file for at least three years from the date of creation
Additional training for service technicians recommended.
HFO-1234yf is also known as 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-prop-1-ene (CAS No. 754-12-1).
HFO-1234yf is acceptable for complete heavy-duty vans. Complete heavy-duty vans are not altered by a secondary or tertiary manufacturer.
Consistent with EPA's Significant New Use Rule for HFO-1234yf under the Toxic Substances Control Act, commercial users or consumers can only recharge MVAC systems with HFO-1234yf where the original charging of the system with HFO-1234yf was done by the original equipment manufacturer.
Motor vehicle air conditioning (newly manufactured nonroad agricultural tractors with greater than 40 horsepower)
HFO-1234yf
Acceptable subject to use conditions
As of June 3, 2022:
(1) Systems must adhere to all of the safety requirements of SAE J639,
4 7
including requirements for a flammable refrigerant warning label, high-pressure compressor cutoff switch and pressure relief devices, and unique fittings. For connections with refrigerant containers for use in professional servicing, use fittings must be consistent with SAE J2844.
6 7
For connections with small refrigerant cans for consumer or professional use, use fittings must have a diameter of 0.5 inches, a thread pitch of 16 thread per inch, and a left thread direction, consistent with SAE J2844
(2) Manufacturers must conduct Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) as provided in SAE J1739.
5 7
Manufacturers must keep the FMEA on file for at least three years from the date of creation
Additional training for service technicians recommended.
HFO-1234yf is also known as 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-prop-1-ene (CAS No. 754-12-1).
Consistent with EPA's Significant New Use Rule for HFO-1234yf under the Toxic Substances Control Act, commercial users or consumers can only recharge MVAC systems with HFO-1234yf where the original charging of the system with HFO-1234yf was done by the original equipment manufacturer.
Motor vehicle air conditioning (newly manufactured nonroad self-propelled agricultural machinery)
HFO-1234yf
Acceptable subject to use conditions
As of June 3, 2022:
(1) HFO-1234yf MVAC systems must adhere to all of the safety requirements of SAE J639,
4 7
including requirements for a flammable refrigerant warning label, high-pressure compressor cutoff switch and pressure relief devices, and unique fittings. For connections with refrigerant containers for use in professional servicing, use fittings must be consistent with SAE J2844
6 7
For connections with small refrigerant cans for consumer or professional use, use fittings must have a diameter of 0.5 inches, a thread pitch of 16 thread per inch, and a left thread direction, consistent with SAE J2844
(2) Manufacturers must conduct Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) as provided in SAE J1739.
5 7
Manufacturers must keep the FMEA on file for at least three years from the date of creation
Additional training for service technicians recommended.
HFO-1234yf is also known as 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-prop-1-ene (CAS No. 754-12-1).
Consistent with EPA's Significant New Use Rule for HFO-1234yf under the Toxic Substances Control Act commercial users or consumers can only recharge MVAC systems with HFO-1234yf where the original charging of the system with HFO-1234yf was done by the original equipment manufacturer.
Motor vehicle air conditioning (newly manufactured nonroad compact equipment)
HFO-1234yf
Acceptable subject to use conditions
As of June 3, 2022:
(1) HFO-1234yf MVAC systems must adhere to all of the safety requirements of SAE J639,
4 7
including requirements for a flammable refrigerant warning label, high-pressure compressor cutoff switch and pressure relief devices, and unique fittings. For connections with refrigerant containers for use in professional servicing, use fittings must be consistent with SAE J2844.
6 7
For connections with small refrigerant cans for consumer or professional use, use fittings must have a diameter of 0.5 inches, a thread pitch of 16 thread per inch, and a left thread direction, consistent with SAE J2844)
(2) Manufacturers must conduct Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) as provided in SAE J1739.
5 7
Manufacturers must keep the FMEA on file for at least three years from the date of creation
Additional training for service technicians recommended.
HFO-1234yf is also known as 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-prop-1-ene (CAS No. 754-12-1).
Consistent with EPA's Significant New Use Rule for HFO-1234yf under the Toxic Substances Control Act (80 FR 37166, June 30, 2015), commercial users or consumers can only recharge MVAC systems with HFO-1234yf where the original charging of the system with HFO-1234yf was done by the original equipment manufacturer.
Motor vehicle air conditioning (newly manufactured nonroad construction, forestry, and mining equipment)
HFO-1234yf
Acceptable subject to use conditions
As of June 3, 2022:
(1) HFO-1234yf MVAC systems must adhere to all of the safety requirements of SAE J639,
4 7
including requirements for a flammable refrigerant warning label, high-pressure compressor cutoff switch and pressure relief devices, and unique fittings. For connections with refrigerant containers for use in professional servicing, use fittings must be consistent with SAE J2844.
6 7
For connections with small refrigerant cans for consumer or professional use, use fittings must have a diameter of 0.5 inches, a thread pitch of 16 thread per inch, and a left thread direction, consistent with SAE J2844
(2) Manufacturers must conduct Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) as provided in SAE J1739.
5 7
Manufacturers must keep the FMEA on file for at least three years from the date of creation
Additional training for service technicians recommended.
HFO-1234yf is also known as 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-prop-1-ene (CAS No. 754-12-1).
Consistent with EPA's Significant New Use Rule for HFO-1234yf under the Toxic Substances Control Act, commercial users or consumers can only recharge MVAC systems with HFO-1234yf where the original charging of the system with HFO-1234yf was done by the original equipment manufacturer.
Motor vehicle air conditioning (newly manufactured nonroad commercial utility vehicles)
HFO-1234yf
Acceptable subject to use conditions
As of June 3, 2022:
(1) HFO-1234yf MVAC systems must adhere to all of the safety requirements of SAE J639,
4 7
including requirements for a flammable refrigerant warning label, high-pressure compressor cutoff switch and pressure relief devices, and unique fittings. For connections with refrigerant containers for use in professional servicing, use fittings must be consistent with SAE J2844.
6 7
For connections with small refrigerant cans for consumer or professional use, use fittings must have a diameter of 0.5 inches, a thread pitch of 16 thread per inch, and a left thread direction, consistent with SAE J2844
(2) Manufacturers must conduct Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) as provided in SAE J1739.
5 7
Manufacturers must keep the FMEA on file for at least three years from the date of creation
Additional training for service technicians recommended.
HFO-1234yf is also known as 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-prop-1-ene (CAS No. 754-12-1).
Consistent with EPA's Significant New Use Rule for HFO-1234yf under the Toxic Substances Control Act, commercial users or consumers can only recharge MVAC systems with HFO-1234yf where the original charging of the system with HFO-1234yf was done by the original equipment manufacturer.
1
Free space is defined as the space inside the passenger compartment excluding the space enclosed by the ducting in the HVAC module.
2
Area inside the passenger compartment where the driver's and passengers' heads are located during a normal sitting position. Refer to SAE J1052 for information on determining passenger head position.
3
The refrigerant service containers fitting requirement applies only to refrigerant service containers used during servicing of the MVAC, in accordance with the provisions established for MVAC servicing under 40 CFR part 82, subpart B.
4
SAE, J639 NOV2020, Safety and Design Standards for Motor Vehicle Refrigerant Vapor Compression Systems, Revised November 2020.
5
SAE, J1739 JAN2021, Potential Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (FMEA) Including Design FMEA, Supplemental FMEA-MSR, and Process FMEA, Revised January 2021.
6
SAE, J2844 JAN2013, R-1234yf (HFO-1234yf) New Refrigerant Purity and Container Requirements for Use in Mobile Air-Conditioning Systems, Revised January 2013.
7
The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. It is available for inspection at the EPA and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact EPA at: U.S. EPA's Air and Radiation Docket; EPA West Building, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington DC 202-566-1742. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
Available from SAE International (SAE): SAE Customer Service, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001; 1-877-606-7323 in the United States or 724-776-4970 outside the United States or in Canada; website:
https://www.sae.org/standards.
Refrigerants—Acceptable Subject to Narrowed Use Limits
End-use
Substitute
Decision
Comments
CFC-11, CFC-12, CFC-113, CFC-114, CFC-115 Non-Mechanical Heat Transfer, New
C
3
F
8
, C
4
F
10
, C
5
F
12
, C
5
F
11
NO, C
6
F
14
, C
6
F
13
NO, C
7
F
16
, C
7
F
15
NO, C
8
F
18
, C
8
F
16
O, and C
9
F
21
N
Acceptable only where no other alternatives are technically feasible due to safety or performance requirements
Users must observe the limitations on PFC acceptability by determining that the physical or chemical properties or other technical constraints of the other available agents preclude their use. Documentation of such measures must be available for review upon request.
The principal environmental characteristic of concern for PFCs is that they have high GWPs and long atmospheric lifetimes. EPA strongly recommends recovery and recycling of these substitutes.
Motor vehicle air conditioning (new equipment in passenger cars and light-duty trucks only)
HFC-134a
Acceptable for use in Model Year (MY) 2021 through MY 2025 passenger cars and light-duty trucks destined for export, where reasonable efforts have been made to ascertain that other alternatives are not technically feasible because of lack of infrastructure for servicing with alternative refrigerants in the destination country
Vehicle manufacturers must document their determination that the infrastructure is not in place for each country to which they plan to export vehicles and must retain the documentation in their files for at least five years after date of its creation for the purpose of demonstrating compliance.
Documentation is to include descriptions of:
• Products in which the substitute is needed;
• Substitutes examined and rejected for the destination country;
• Reason for rejection of other alternatives; and
• Anticipated date other substitutes will be available and projected date of transition in the destination country.
Refrigerants—Unacceptable Substitutes
End-use
Substitute
Decision
Comments
CFC-11, CFC-12, CFC-113, CFC-114, R-500 Centrifugal Chillers (Retrofit and New Equipment/NIKs)
R-405A
Unacceptable
R-405A contains R-c318, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
Hydrocarbon Blend B
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12 Reciprocating Chillers (Retrofit and New Equipment/NIKs)
R-405A
Unacceptable
R-405A contains R-c318, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
Hydrocarbon Blend B
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-11, CFC-12, R-502 Industrial Process Refrigeration (Retrofit and New Equipment/NIKs)
R-403B
Unacceptable
R-403B contains R-218, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
R-405A
Unacceptable
R-405A contains R-c318, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
CFC-12, R-502 Ice Skating Rinks (Retrofit and New Equipment/NIKs)
R-405A
Unacceptable
R-405A contains R-c318, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
Hydrocarbon Blend B
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-502 Cold Storage Warehouses (Retrofit and New Equipment/NIKs)
R-403B
Unacceptable
R-403B contains R-218, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
R-405A
Unacceptable
R-405A contains R-c318, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
Hydrocarbon Blend B
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-500, R-502 Refrigerated Transport (Retrofit and New Equipment/NIKs)
R-403B
Unacceptable
R-403B contains R-218, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
R-405A
Unacceptable
R-405A contains R-c318, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
Hydrocarbon Blend B
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-502 Retail Food Refrigeration (Retrofit and New Equipment/NIKs)
R-403B
Unacceptable
R-403B contains R-218, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
R-405A
Unacceptable
R-405A contains R-c318, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
Hydrocarbon Blend B
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-502 Commercial Ice Machines (Retrofit and New Equipment/NIKs)
R-403B
Unacceptable
R-403B contains R-218, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
R-405A
Unacceptable
R-405A contains R-c318, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
Hydrocarbon Blend B
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12 Vending Machines (Retrofit and New Equipment/NIKs)
R-405A
Unacceptable
R-405A contains R-c318, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
Hydrocarbon Blend B
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12 Water Coolers (Retrofit and New Equipment/NIKs)
R-405A
Unacceptable
R-405A contains R-c318, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
Hydrocarbon Blend B
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12 Household Refrigerators (Retrofit and New Equipment/NIKs)
R-405A
Unacceptable
R-405A contains R-c318, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
Hydrocarbon Blend B
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-502 Household Freezers (Retrofit and New Equipment/NIKs)
R-403B
Unacceptable
R-403B contains R-218, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
R-405A
Unacceptable
R-405A contains R-c318, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
Hydrocarbon Blend B
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12, R-500 Residential Dehumidifiers (Retrofit and New Equipment/NIKs)
R-405A
Unacceptable
R-405A contains R-c318, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
Hydrocarbon Blend B
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
CFC-12 Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners (Retrofit and New Equipment/NIKs)
R-405A
Unacceptable
R-405A contains R-c318, a PFC, which has an extremely high GWP and lifetime. Other Substitutes exist which do not contain PFCs.
Hydrocarbon Blend B
Unacceptable
Flammability is a serious concern. Data have not been submitted to demonstrate it can be used safely in this end-use.
Flammable Substitutes, other than R-152a or HFO-1234yf in new equipment
Unacceptable
The risks associated with using flammable substitutes (except R-152a and HFO-1234yf) in this end-use have not been addressed by a risk assessment. R-152a and HFO-1234yf may be used in new equipment with the use conditions in appendix B to this subpart.
Motor vehicle air conditioning (new equipment in passenger cars and light-duty trucks only)
HFC-134a
Unacceptable as of Model Year 2021 except where allowed under narrowed use limit
HFC-134a has a Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number (CAS Reg. No.) of 811-97-2 and it is also known by the name 1,1,1,2-tetrafluoropropane. HFC-134a has a GWP of 1,430. Other substitutes will be available for this end-use with lower overall risk to human health and the environment by the status change date.
This listing does not prohibit the servicing or replacement of motor vehicle air conditioning systems manufactured to use HFC-134a.
Motor vehicle air conditioning (new equipment in passenger cars and light-duty trucks only)
R-406A, R-414A (HCFC Blend Xi, GHG-X4), R-414B (HCFC Blend Omicron), HCFC Blend Delta (Free Zone), Freeze 12, GHG-X5, HCFC Blend Lambda (GHG-HP), R-416A (FRIGC FR-12, HCFC Blend Beta)
Unacceptable as of Model Year 2017
These refrigerants all contain HCFCs. They have GWPs ranging from 1,080 to 2,340 and ODPs ranging from 0.008 to 0.056. Other substitutes will be available for this end-use with lower overall risk to human health and the environment by the status change date.
Motor vehicle air conditioning (new equipment in passenger cars and light-duty trucks only)
SP34E, R-426A (RS-24, new formulation)
Unacceptable as of Model Year 2017
These blends have GWPs ranging from approximately 1,410 to 1,510. Other substitutes will be available for this end-use with lower overall risk to human health and the environment by the status change date.
Solvent Cleaning Sector—Acceptable Subject to Use Conditions Substitutes
Application
Substitute
Decision
Conditions
Comments
Electronics Cleaning w/CFC-113, MCF
HCFC-225 ca/cb
Acceptable
Subject to the company set exposure limit of 25 ppm of the -ca isomer
HCFC-225 ca/cb blend is offered as a 45%-ca/55%-cb blend. The company set exposure limit of the -ca isomer is 25 ppm. The company set exposure limit of the -cb isomer is 250 ppm. It is the Agency's opinion that with the low emission cold cleaning and vapor degreasing equipment designed for this use, the 25 ppm limit of the HCFC-225 ca isomer can be met. The company is submitting further exposure monitoring data.
Precision Cleaning w/CFC-113, MCF
HCFC-225 ca/cb
Acceptable
Subject to the company set exposure limit of 25 ppm of the -ca isomer
HCFC-225 ca/cb blend is offered as a 45%-ca/55%-cb blend. The company set exposure limit of the -ca isomer is 25 ppm. The company set exposure limit of the -cb isomer is 250 ppm. It is the Agency's opinion that with the low emission cold cleaning and vapor degreasing equipment designed for this use, the 25 ppm limit of the HCFC-225 ca isomer can be met. The company is submitting further exposure monitoring data.
Solvent Cleaning Sector—Unacceptable Substitutes
End use
Substitute
Decision
Comments
Metals cleaning w/CFC-113
Dibromomethane
Unacceptable
High ODP; other alternatives exist.
Metals cleaning w/MCF
Dibromomethane
Unacceptable
High ODP; other alternatives exist.
Electronics cleaning w/CFC-113
Dibromomethane
Unacceptable
High ODP; other alternatives exist.
Electronics cleaning w/MCF
Dibromomethane
Unacceptable
High ODP; other alternatives exist.
Precision cleaning w/CFC-113
Dibromomethane
Unacceptable
High ODP; other alternatives exist.
Precision cleaning w/MCF
Dibromomethane
Unacceptable
High ODP; other alternatives exist.
Fire Suppression and Explosion Protection—Acceptable Subject to Use Conditions: Total Flooding Agents
Application
Substitute
Decision
Conditions
Comments
Halon 1301 Total Flooding Agents
Inert Gas/Powdered Aerosol Blend
Acceptable as a Halon 1301 substitute in normally unoccupied areas
In areas where personnel could possibly be present, as in a cargo area, EPA requires that the employer shall provide a pre-discharge employee alarm capable of being perceived above ambient light or noise levels for alerting employees before system discharge. The pre-discharge alarm shall provide employees time to safely exit the discharge area prior to system discharge
The manufacturer's SNAP application requested listing for use in unoccupied areas only.
See additional comment 2.
Additional Comments
1—Must conform with OSHA 29 CFR 1910 Subpart L Section 1910.160 of the U.S. Code. You should use clean agents in accordance with the safety guidelines in the latest edition of the NFPA 2001 Standard for Clean Agent Fire Extinguishing Systems.
2—Per OSHA requirements, protective gear (SCBA) must be available in the event personnel must enter/reenter the area.
3—Discharge testing should be strictly limited only to that which is essential to meet safety or performance requirements.
4—The agent should be recovered from the fire protection system in conjunction with testing or servicing, and recycled for later use or destroyed.
Fire Suppression and Explosion Protection—Acceptable Subject to Narrowed Use Limits: Total Flooding Agents
End-use
Substitute
Decision
Conditions
Further information
Total flooding
Sulfurhexafluoride (SF
6
)
Acceptable subject to narrowed use in limits
May be used as a discharge test agent in military uses and in civilian aircraft uses only
This agent has an atmospheric lifetime greater than 1,000 years, with an estimated 100-year, 500-year, and 1,000-year GWP of 16,100, 26,110 and 32,803 respectively. Users should limit testing only to that which is essential to meet safety or performance requirements.
This agent is only used to test new Halon 1301 systems.
See additional comments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Total flooding
CF
3
I
Acceptable subject to narrowed use limits
Use only in normally unoccupied areas
Use of this agent should be in accordance with the safety guidelines in the latest edition of the NFPA 2001 Standard for Clean Agent Fire Extinguishing Systems.
Manufacturer has not applied for listing for use in normally occupied areas. Preliminary cardiosensitization data indicates that this agent would not be suitable for use in normally occupied areas.
See additional comments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Additional comments:
1—Must conform with relevant OSHA requirements, including 29 CFR 1910, Subpart L, Sections 1910.160 and 1910.162.
2—Per OSHA requirements, protective gear (SCBA) should be available in the event personnel should reenter the area.
3—Discharge testing should be strictly limited to that which is essential to meet safety or performance requirements.
4—The agent should be recovered from the fire protection system in conjunction with testing or servicing, and recycled for later use or destroyed.
5—EPA has no intention of duplicating or displacing OSHA coverage related to the use of personal protective equipment (e.g., respiratory protection), fire protection, hazard communication, worker training or any other occupational safety and health standard with respect to halon substitutes.
Fire Suppression and Explosion Protection—Unacceptable Substitutes
Application
Substitute
Decision
Comments
Halon 1301 Total Flooding Agents
HFC-32
Unacceptable
Data indicate that HFC-32 is flammable and therefore is not suitable as a halon substitute.
[60 FR 31103, June 13, 1995, as amended at 67 FR 4200, Jan. 29, 2002; 73 FR 33310, June 12, 2008; 76 FR 17519, Mar. 29, 2011; 77 FR 17350, Mar. 26, 2012; 77 FR 33330, June 6, 2012; 80 FR 42952, July 20, 2015; 81 FR 86881, Dec. 1, 2016; 87 FR 26292, May 4, 2022]
Pt. 82, Subpt. G, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions and Unacceptable Substitutes Listed in the May 22, 1996 Final Rule, Effective June 21, 1996

# Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Sector—Acceptable Subject to Use Conditions
HCFC Blend Delta and Blend Zeta are acceptable subject to the following conditions when used to retrofit a CFC-12 motor vehicle air conditioning system:
1. Each refrigerant may only be used with a set of fittings that is unique to that refrigerant. These fittings (male or female, as appropriate) must be used with all containers of the refrigerant, on can taps, on recovery, recycling, and charging equipment, and on all air conditioning system service ports. These fittings must be designed to mechanically prevent cross-charging with another refrigerant. A refrigerant may only be used with the fittings and can taps specifically intended for that refrigerant. Using an adapter or deliberately modifying a fitting to use a different refrigerant will be a violation of this use condition. In addition, fittings shall meet the following criteria, derived from Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) standards and recommended practices:
a. When existing CFC-12 service ports are to be retrofitted, conversion assemblies shall attach to the CFC-12 fitting with a thread lock adhesive and/or a separate mechanical latching mechanism in a manner that permanently prevents the assembly from being removed.
b. All conversion assemblies and new service ports must satisfy the vibration testing requirements of sections 3.2.1 or 3.2.2 of SAE J1660, as applicable, excluding references to SAE J639 and SAE J2064, which are specific to HFC-134a.
c. In order to prevent discharge of refrigerant to the atmosphere, systems shall have a device to limit compressor operation before the pressure relief device will vent refrigerant. This requirement is waived for systems that do not feature such a pressure relief device.
d. All CFC-12 service ports not retrofitted with conversion assemblies shall be rendered permanently incompatible for use with CFC-12 related service equipment by fitting with a device attached with a thread lock adhesive and/or a separate mechanical latching mechanism in a manner that prevents the device from being removed.
2. When a retrofit is performed, a label must be used as follows:
a. The person conducting the retrofit must apply a label to the air conditioning system in the engine compartment that contains the following information:
i. The name and address of the technician and the company performing the retrofit.
ii. The date of the retrofit.
iii. The trade name, charge amount, and, when applicable, the ASHRAE refrigerant numerical designation of the refrigerant.
iv. The type, manufacturer, and amount of lubricant used.
v. If the refrigerant is or contains an ozone-depleting substance, the phrase “ozone depleter.”
vi. If the refrigerant displays flammability limits as measured according to ASTM E681, the statement “This refrigerant is FLAMMABLE. Take appropriate precautions.”
b. This label must be large enough to be easily read and must be permanent.
c. The background color must be unique to the refrigerant.
d. The label must be affixed to the system over information related to the previous refrigerant, in a location not normally replaced during vehicle repair.
e. Information on the previous refrigerant that cannot be covered by the new label must be permanently rendered unreadable.
3. No substitute refrigerant may be used to “top-off” a system that uses another refrigerant. The original refrigerant must be recovered in accordance with regulations issued under section 609 of the CAA prior to charging with a substitute.
Solvent Cleaning Sector—Proposed Acceptable Subject to Use Conditions Substitutes
Application
Substitute
Decision
Conditions
Comments
Metals Cleaning with CFC-113, MCF and HCFC-141b
Monochlorotoluenes and benzotrifluorides
Acceptable
Subject to a 50 ppm workplace standard for monochlorotoluenes and a 25 ppm standard for benzotrifluorides
The workplace standard for monochlorotoluenes is based on an OSHA PEL of 50 ppm for orthochlorotoluene. The workplace standard for benzotrifluorides is based on a recent toxicology study.
Electronics Cleaning w/ CFC-113, MCF and HCFC-141b
Monochlorotoluenes and benzotrifluorides
Acceptable
Subject to a 50 ppm workplace standard for monochlorotoluenes and a 25 ppm standard for benzotrifluorides
The workplace standard for monochlorotoluenes is based on an OSHA PEL of 50 ppm for orthochlorotoluene. The workplace standard for benzotrifluorides is based on a recent toxicology study.
Precision Cleaning w/ CFC-113, MCF and HCFC-141b
Monochlorotoluenes and benzotrifluorides
Acceptable
Subject to a 50 ppm workplace standard for monochlorotoluenes and a 25 ppm standard for benzotrifluorides
The workplace standard for monochlorotoluenes is based on an OSHA PEL of 50 ppm for orthochlorotoluene. The workplace standard for benzotrifluorides is based on a recent toxicology study.
Acceptable Subject to Narrowed Use Limits: Streaming Agents
Application
Substitute
Decision
Comments
Halon 1211
CF
3
I
Acceptable in non-residential uses only
Streaming Agents
Aerosols—Proposed Acceptable Subject to Use Conditions Substitutes
Application
Substitute
Decision
Conditions
Comments
CFC-113, MCF and HCFC-141b as solvent
Monochlorotoluenes and benzotrifluo-rides
Acceptable
Subject to a 50 ppm workplace standard for monochlorotoluenes and a 25 ppm standard for benzotrifluorides
The workplace standard for monochlorotoluenes is based on an OSHA PEL of 50 ppm for orthochlorotoluene. The workplace standard for benzotrifluorides is based on a recent toxicology study.
Adhesives, Coatings and Inks—Proposed Acceptable Subject to Use Conditions Substitutes
Application
Substitute
Decision
Conditions
Comments
CFC-113, MCF and HCFC-141b
Monochlorotoluenes and benzotrifluo-rides
Acceptable
Subject to a 50 ppm workplace standard for monochlorotoluenes and a 25 ppm standard for benzotrifluorides
The workplace standard for monochlorotoluenes is based on an OSHA PEL of 50 ppm for orthochlorotoluene. The workplace standard for benzotrifluorides is based on a recent toxicology study.
[61 FR 25592, May 22, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 4201, Jan. 29, 2002]

# Effective Date Note:
At 61 FR 25592, May 22, 1996, appendix C to subpart G of part 82 was added. This appendix contains information collection and recordkeeping requirements that will not become effective until approval has been given by the Office of Management and Budget.
Pt. 82, Subpt. G, App. D

# Appendix D to Subpart G of Part 82—Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions and Unacceptable Substitutes

# Summary of Decisions

# Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Sector Acceptable Subject to Use Conditions
R-406A/“GHG”/“McCool”, “GHG-HP”, “GHG-X4”/“Autofrost”/“Chill-It”, and “Hot Shot”/“Kar Kool” are acceptable substitutes for CFC-12 in retrofitted motor vehicle air conditioning systems (MVACs) subject to the use condition that a retrofit to these refrigerants must include replacing non-barrier hoses with barrier hoses.
For all refrigerants submitted for use in motor vehicle air conditioning systems, subsequent to the effective date of this FRM, in addition to the information previously required in the March 18, 1994 final SNAP rule (58 FR 13044), SNAP submissions must include specifications for the fittings similar to those found in SAE J639, samples of all fittings, and the detailed label described below at the same time as the initial SNAP submission, or the submission will be considered incomplete. Under section 612 of the Clean Air Act, substitutes for which submissions are incomplete may not be sold or used, regardless of other acceptability determinations, and the prohibition against sale of a new refrigerant will not end until 90 days after EPA determines the submission is complete.
In addition, the use of a) R-406A/“GHG”/“McCool”, “HCFC Blend Lambda”/“GHG-HP”, R-414A/“HCFC Blend Xi”/“GHG-X4/“Autofrost”/“Chill-It”, R-414B/“Hot Shot”/“Kar Kool”, and R-416A/“HCFC Blend Beta”/“FREEZE 12” as CFC-12 substitutes in retrofitted MVACs, and b) all refrigerants submitted for, and listed in, subsequent Notices of Acceptability as substitutes for CFC-12 in MVACs, must meet the following conditions.
1. Each refrigerant may only be used with a set of fittings that is unique to that refrigerant. These fittings (male or female, as appropriate) must be designed by the manufacturer of the refrigerant. The manufacturer is responsible to ensure that the fittings meet all of the requirements listed below, including testing according to SAE standards. These fittings must be designed to mechanically prevent cross-charging with another refrigerant, including CFC-12.
The fittings must be used on all containers of the refrigerant, on can taps, on recovery, recycling, and charging equipment, and on all air conditioning system service ports. A refrigerant may only be used with the fittings and can taps specifically intended for that refrigerant and designed by the manufacturer of the refrigerant. Using a refrigerant with a fitting designed by anyone else, even if it is different from fittings used with other refrigerants, is a violation of this use condition. Using an adapter or deliberately modifying a fitting to use a different refrigerant is a violation of this use condition.
Fittings shall meet the following criteria, derived from Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) standards and recommended practices:
a. When existing CFC-12 service ports are retrofitted, conversion assemblies shall attach to the CFC-12 fitting with a thread lock adhesive and/or a separate mechanical latching mechanism in a manner that permanently prevents the assembly from being removed.
