Any entity seeking to register as a derivatives clearing organization shall submit to the Commission a completed Form DCO, which shall include a cover sheet, all applicable exhibits, and any supplemental materials, as provided in appendix A to this part (application). The Commission will not commence processing an application unless the applicant has filed the application as required by this section. Failure to file a completed application will preclude the Commission from determining that an application is materially complete, as provided in section 6(a) of the Act. Upon its own initiative, an applicant may file with its completed application additional information that may be necessary or helpful to the Commission in processing the application.
(3)
Alternative application procedures.
An entity that is organized outside of the United States, is seeking to register as a derivatives clearing organization for the clearing of swaps, and does
not pose substantial risk to the U.S. financial system may apply for registration in accordance with the terms of this paragraph in lieu of filing the application described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. If the application is approved by the Commission, the derivatives clearing organization's compliance with its home country regulatory regime would satisfy the core principles set forth in section 5b(c)(2) of the Act, subject to the requirements of subpart D of this part. The applicant shall submit to the Commission the following sections of Form DCO, as provided in appendix A to this part: Cover sheet, Exhibit A-1 (regulatory compliance chart), Exhibit A-2 (proposed rulebook), Exhibit A-3 (narrative summary of proposed clearing activities), Exhibit A-4 (detailed business plan), Exhibit A-7 (documents setting forth the applicant's corporate organizational structure), Exhibit A-8 (documents establishing the applicant's legal status and certificate(s) of good standing or its equivalent), Exhibit A-9 (description of pending legal proceedings or governmental investigations), Exhibit A-10 (agreements with outside service providers with respect to the treatment of customer funds), Exhibits F-1 through F-3 (documents that demonstrate compliance with the treatment of funds requirements with respect to customers of futures commission merchants), and Exhibit R (ring-fencing memorandum). For purposes of this paragraph, the applicant must demonstrate to the Commission, in Exhibit A-1, the extent to which compliance with the applicable legal requirements in its home country would constitute compliance with the core principles set forth in section 5b(c)(2) of the Act. To satisfy this requirement, the applicant shall provide in Exhibit A-1 the citation and full text of each applicable legal requirement in its home country that corresponds with each core principle and an explanation of how the applicant satisfies those requirements. If there is no applicable legal requirement for a particular core principle, the applicant shall provide an explanation of how it would satisfy the core principle.
(4)
Submission of supplemental information.
The filing of a completed application is a minimum requirement and does not create a presumption that the application is materially complete or that supplemental information will not be required. At any time during the application review process, the Commission may request that the applicant provide supplemental information in order for the Commission to process the application. The applicant shall provide supplemental information in the format and manner specified by the Commission.
(5)
Application amendments.
An applicant shall promptly amend its application if it discovers a material omission or error, or if there is a material change in the information provided to the Commission in the application or other information provided in connection with the application. An applicant is only required to submit exhibits and other information that are relevant to the application amendment.
(6)
Public information.
The following sections of an application for registration as a derivatives clearing organization will be public: First page of the Form DCO cover sheet (up to and including the General Information section), Exhibit A-1 (regulatory compliance chart), Exhibit A-2 (proposed rulebook), Exhibit A-3 (narrative summary of proposed clearing activities), Exhibit A-7 (documents setting forth the applicant's corporate organizational structure), Exhibit A-8 (documents establishing the applicant's legal status and certificate(s) of good standing or its equivalent), and any other part of the application not covered by a request for confidential treatment, subject to § 145.9 of this chapter.
(7)
Extension of time for review.
The Commission may further extend the review period in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for any period of time to which the applicant agrees in writing.
(b)
Stay of application review.
(1) The Commission may stay the running of the 180-day review period if an application is materially incomplete, in accordance with section 6(a) of the Act.
(2)
Delegation of authority.
(i) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk or the Director's designee, with the concurrence of the General Counsel or the
General Counsel's designee, the authority to notify an applicant seeking registration as a derivatives clearing organization that the application is materially incomplete and the running of the 180-day period under section 6(a) of the Act is stayed.
(ii) The Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated in this paragraph.
(iii) Nothing in this paragraph prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.
(c)
Withdrawal of application for registration.
An applicant for registration may withdraw its application submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section by filing such a request with the Secretary of the Commission in the format and manner specified by the Commission. Withdrawal of an application for registration shall not affect any action taken or to be taken by the Commission based upon actions, activities, or events occurring during the time that the application for registration was pending with the Commission.
(d)
Amendment of an order of registration.
(1) A derivatives clearing organization requesting an amendment to an order of registration shall file the request with the Secretary of the Commission in the form and manner specified by the Commission.
(2) A derivatives clearing organization shall provide to the Commission, upon the Commission's request, any additional information and documentation necessary to review a request to amend an order of registration.
(3) The Commission shall issue an amended order of registration upon a Commission determination, in its own discretion, that the derivatives clearing organization would maintain compliance with the Act and the Commission's regulations in this chapter upon amendment to the order. If deemed appropriate, the Commission may issue an amended order of registration subject to conditions.
(4) The Commission may decline to issue an amended order based upon a Commission determination, in its own discretion, that the derivatives clearing organization would not continue to maintain compliance with the Act and the Commission's regulations in this chapter upon amendment to the order.
(e)
Reinstatement of dormant registration.
Before accepting products for clearing, a dormant derivatives clearing organization as defined in § 40.1 of this chapter must reinstate its registration under the procedures of paragraph (a) of this section; provided, however, that an application for reinstatement may rely upon previously submitted materials that still pertain to, and accurately describe, current conditions.
(f)
Vacation of registration
—(1)
Request.
A derivatives clearing organization may have its registration vacated pursuant to section 7 of the Act by submitting a request to the Secretary of the Commission in the format and manner specified by the Commission. A vacation of registration shall not affect any action taken or to be taken by the Commission based upon actions, activities or events occurring during the time that the derivatives clearing organization was registered with the Commission. The request shall include:
(i) The date that the vacation should take effect, which must be at least ninety days after the request was submitted;
(ii) A description of how the derivatives clearing organization intends to transfer or otherwise unwind all open positions at the derivatives clearing organization and how such actions reflect the interests of affected clearing members and their customers;
(iii) A statement that the derivatives clearing organization will continue to maintain its books and records for the requisite statutory and regulatory retention periods after its registration has been vacated; and
(iv) A statement that the derivatives clearing organization will continue to make its books and records available for inspection by any representative of the Commission or the United States Department of Justice after its registration has been vacated, as required by § 1.31 of this chapter.
(2)
Notice to registered entities.
The Commission shall fulfill its obligation to send a copy of the request and the
order of vacation to all other registered entities by posting the documents on the Commission website.
(g)
Request for transfer of open interest
—(1)
Submission.
A derivatives clearing organization seeking to transfer its positions comprising open interest for clearing and settlement to another clearing organization shall submit rules for Commission approval pursuant to § 40.5 of this chapter.
(2)
Required information.
The rule submission shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(i) The underlying agreement that governs the transfer;
(ii) A description of the transfer, including the reason for the transfer and the impact of the transfer on the rights and obligations of clearing members and market participants holding the positions that comprise the derivatives clearing organization's open interest;
(iii) A discussion of the transferee's ability to comply with the Act, including the core principles applicable to derivatives clearing organizations, and the Commission's regulations in this chapter, as applicable;
(iv) The transferee's rules marked to show changes that would result from acceptance of the transferred positions;
(v) A list of products for which the derivatives clearing organization requests transfer of open interest; and
(vi) A representation by the transferee that it is in and will maintain compliance with any applicable provisions of the Act, including the core principles applicable to derivatives clearing organizations, and the Commission's regulations upon the transfer of the open interest.
(3)
Commission action.
The Commission may request additional information in support of a rule submission filed under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and may grant approval of the rules in accordance with § 40.5 of this chapter.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 4851, Jan. 27, 2020; 85 FR 67186, Oct. 21, 2020]
§ 39.4
Procedures for implementing derivatives clearing organization rules and clearing new products.
(a)
Request for approval of rules.
A registered derivatives clearing organization may request, pursuant to the procedures of § 40.5 of this chapter, that the Commission approve any or all of its rules and subsequent amendments thereto, including operational rules, prior to their implementation or, notwithstanding the provisions of section 5c(c)(2) of the Act, at any time thereafter, under the procedures of § 40.5 of this chapter. A derivatives clearing organization may label as “approved by the Commission” only those rules that have been so approved.
(b)
Self-certification of rules.
Proposed new or amended rules of a derivatives clearing organization not voluntarily submitted for prior Commission approval pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must be submitted to the Commission with a certification that the proposed new rule or rule amendment complies with the Act and rules thereunder pursuant to the procedures of § 40.6 of this chapter.
(c)
Exemption from self-certification of rules.
Notwithstanding the rule certification requirements of section 5c(c)(1) of the Act and § 40.6 of this chapter, a derivatives clearing organization that is subject to subpart D of this part is not required to certify a rule unless the rule relates to the requirements under section 4d(f) of the Act, parts 1, 22, or 45 of this chapter, or § 39.15.
(d)
Acceptance of new products for clearing.
(1) A dormant derivatives clearing organization within the meaning of § 40.1 of this chapter may not accept for clearing a new product until its registration as a derivatives clearing organization is reinstated under the procedures of § 39.3 of this part; provided however, that an application for reinstatement may rely upon previously submitted materials that still pertain to, and accurately describe, current conditions.
(2) A derivatives clearing organization that accepts for clearing a new product that is a swap shall comply with the requirements of § 39.5 of this part.
(e)
Orders regarding competition.
An applicant for registration or a registered derivatives clearing organization may request that the Commission issue an order concerning whether a rule or practice of the organization is the least anticompetitive means of
achieving the objectives, purposes, and policies of the Act.
(f)
Holding securities in a futures portfolio margining account.
A derivatives clearing organization seeking to provide a portfolio margining program under which securities would be held in a futures account as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter, shall submit rules to implement such portfolio margining program for Commission approval in accordance with § 40.5 of this chapter. Concurrent with the submission of such rules for Commission approval, the derivatives clearing organization shall petition the Commission for an order under section 4d(a) of the Act.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 83 FR 7996, Feb. 23, 2018; 85 FR 4852, Jan. 27, 2020; 85 FR 67187, Oct. 21, 2020]
§ 39.5
Review of swaps for Commission determination on clearing requirement.
(a)
Eligibility to clear swaps.
(1) A derivatives clearing organization shall be presumed eligible to accept for clearing any swap that is within a group, category, type, or class of swaps that the derivatives clearing organization already clears. Such presumption of eligibility, however, is subject to review by the Commission.
(2) A derivatives clearing organization that wishes to accept for clearing any swap that is not within a group, category, type, or class of swaps that the derivatives clearing organization already clears shall request a determination by the Commission of the derivatives clearing organization's eligibility to clear such a swap before accepting the swap for clearing. The request, which shall be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission, shall address the derivatives clearing organization's ability, if it accepts the swap for clearing, to maintain compliance with section 5b(c)(2) of the Act, specifically:
(i) The sufficiency of the derivatives clearing organization's financial resources; and
(ii) The derivative clearing organization's ability to manage the risks associated with clearing the swap, especially if the Commission determines that the swap is required to be cleared.
(b)
Swap submissions.
(1) A derivatives clearing organization shall submit to the Commission each swap, or any group, category, type, or class of swaps that it plans to accept for clearing. The derivatives clearing organization making the submission must be eligible under paragraph (a) of this section to accept for clearing the submitted swap, or group, category, type, or class of swaps.
(2) A derivatives clearing organization shall submit swaps to the Commission, to the extent reasonable and practicable to do so, by group, category, type, or class of swaps. The Commission may in its reasonable discretion consolidate multiple submissions from one derivatives clearing organization or subdivide a derivatives clearing organization's submission as appropriate for review.
(3) The submission shall be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission and shall include:
(i) A statement that the derivatives clearing organization is eligible to accept the swap, or group, category, type, or class of swaps for clearing and describes the extent to which, if the Commission were to determine that the swap, or group, category, type, or class of swaps is required to be cleared, the derivatives clearing organization will be able to maintain compliance with section 5b(c)(2) of the Act;
(ii) A statement that includes, but is not limited to, information that will assist the Commission in making a quantitative and qualitative assessment of the following factors:
(A) The existence of significant outstanding notional exposures, trading liquidity, and adequate pricing data;
(B) The availability of rule framework, capacity, operational expertise and resources, and credit support infrastructure to clear the contract on terms that are consistent with the material terms and trading conventions on which the contract is then traded;
(C) The effect on the mitigation of systemic risk, taking into account the size of the market for such contract and the resources of the derivatives clearing organization available to clear the contract;
(D) The effect on competition, including appropriate fees and charges applied to clearing; and
(E) The existence of reasonable legal certainty in the event of the insolvency of the relevant derivatives clearing organization or one or more of its clearing members with regard to the treatment of customer and swap counterparty positions, funds, and property;
(iii) Product specifications, including copies of any standardized legal documentation, generally accepted contract terms, standard practices for managing any life cycle events associated with the swap, and the extent to which the swap is electronically confirmable;
(iv) Participant eligibility standards, if different from the derivatives clearing organization's general participant eligibility standards;
(v) Pricing sources, models, and procedures, demonstrating an ability to obtain sufficient price data to measure credit exposures in a timely and accurate manner, including any agreements with clearing members to provide price data and copies of executed agreements with third-party price vendors, and information about any price reference index used, such as the name of the index, the source that calculates it, the methodology used to calculate the price reference index and how often it is calculated, and when and where it is published publicly;
(vi) Risk management procedures, including measurement and monitoring of credit exposures, initial and variation margin methodology, methodologies for stress testing and backtesting, settlement procedures, and default management procedures;
(vii) Applicable rules, manuals, policies, or procedures;
(viii) A description of the manner in which the derivatives clearing organization has provided notice of the submission to its members and a summary of any views on the submission expressed by the members (a copy of the notice to members shall be included with the submission); and
(ix) Any additional information specifically requested by the Commission.
(4) The Commission must have received the submission by the open of business on the business day preceding the acceptance of the swap, or group, category, type, or class of swaps for clearing.
(5) The submission will be made available to the public and posted on the Commission Web site for a 30-day public comment period. A derivatives clearing organization that wishes to request confidential treatment for portions of its submission may do so in accordance with the procedures set out in § 145.9(d) of this chapter.
(6) The Commission will review the submission and determine whether the swap, or group, category, type, or class of swaps described in the submission is required to be cleared. The Commission will make its determination not later than 90 days after a complete submission has been received, unless the submitting derivatives clearing organization agrees to an extension. The determination of when such submission is complete shall be at the sole discretion of the Commission. In making a determination that a clearing requirement shall apply, the Commission may impose such terms and conditions to the clearing requirement as the Commission determines to be appropriate.
(c)
Commission-initiated reviews.
(1) The Commission, on an ongoing basis, will review swaps that have not been accepted for clearing by a derivatives clearing organization to make a determination as to whether the swaps should be required to be cleared. In undertaking such reviews, the Commission will use information obtained pursuant to Commission regulations from swap data repositories, swap dealers, and major swap participants, and any other available information.
(2) Notice regarding any determination made under paragraph (c)(1) of this section will be made available to the public and posted on the Commission Web site for a 30-day public comment period.
(3) If no derivatives clearing organization has accepted for clearing a particular swap, group, category, type, or class of swaps that the Commission finds would otherwise be subject to a clearing requirement, the Commission will:
(i) Investigate the relevant facts and circumstances;
(ii) Within 30 days of the completion of its investigation, issue a public report containing the results of the investigation; and
(iii) Take such actions as the Commission determines to be necessary and in the public interest, which may include requiring the retaining of adequate margin or capital by parties to the swap, group, category, type, or class of swaps.
(d)
Stay of clearing requirement.
(1) After making a determination that a swap, or group, category, type, or class of swaps is required to be cleared, the Commission, on application of a counterparty to a swap or on its own initiative, may stay the clearing requirement until the Commission completes a review of the terms of the swap, or group, category, type, or class of swaps and the clearing arrangement.
(2) A counterparty to a swap that wishes to apply for a stay of the clearing requirement for that swap shall submit a written request to the Secretary of the Commission that includes:
(i) The identity and contact information of the counterparty to the swap;
(ii) The terms of the swap subject to the clearing requirement;
(iii) The name of the derivatives clearing organization clearing the swap;
(iv) A description of the clearing arrangement; and
(v) A statement explaining why the swap should not be subject to a clearing requirement.
(3) A derivatives clearing organization that has accepted for clearing a swap, or group, category, type, or class of swaps that is subject to a stay of the clearing requirement shall provide any information requested by the Commission in the course of its review.
(4) The Commission will complete its review not later than 90 days after issuance of the stay, unless the derivatives clearing organization that clears the swap, or group, category, type, or class of swaps agrees to an extension.
(5) Upon completion of its review, the Commission may:
(i) Determine, subject to any terms and conditions as the Commission determines to be appropriate, that the swap, or group, category, type, or class of swaps must be cleared; or
(ii) Determine that the clearing requirement will not apply to the swap, or group, category, type, or class of swaps, but clearing may continue on a non-mandatory basis.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 88 FR 53682, Aug. 8, 2023]
§ 39.6
Exemption from derivatives clearing organization registration.
(a)
Eligibility for exemption.
A derivatives clearing organization that is organized outside of the United States shall be eligible for an exemption from registration as a derivatives clearing organization for the clearing of swaps for U.S. persons, and thereby exempt from compliance with provisions of the Act and Commission regulations applicable to derivatives clearing organizations, if:
(1) The derivatives clearing organization is subject to comparable, comprehensive supervision and regulation by a home country regulator as demonstrated by the following:
(i) The derivatives clearing organization is organized in a jurisdiction in which a home country regulator applies to the derivatives clearing organization, on an ongoing basis, statutes, rules, regulations, policies, or a combination thereof that, taken together, are consistent with the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures;
(ii) The derivatives clearing organization observes the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures in all material respects; and
(iii) The derivatives clearing organization is in good regulatory standing in its home country; and
(2) A memorandum of understanding or similar arrangement satisfactory to the Commission is in effect between the Commission and the derivatives clearing organization's home country regulator, pursuant to which, among other things, the home country regulator agrees to provide to the Commission any information that the Commission deems necessary to evaluate the initial and continued eligibility of the derivatives clearing organization for exemption from registration or to review its compliance with any conditions of such exemption.
(b)
Conditions of exemption.
An exemption from registration as a derivatives clearing organization shall be subject to any conditions the Commission may prescribe including, but not limited to:
(1)
Clearing by or for U.S. persons and futures commission merchants.
The exempt derivatives clearing organization shall have rules that limit swaps clearing services for U.S. persons and futures commission merchants to the following circumstances:
(i) A U.S. person that is a clearing member of the exempt derivatives clearing organization may clear swaps for itself and those persons identified in the definition of “proprietary account” set forth in § 1.3 of this chapter;
(ii) A non-U.S. person that is a clearing member of the exempt derivatives clearing organization may clear swaps for any affiliated U.S. person identified in the definition of “proprietary” account set forth in § 1.3 of this chapter; and
(iii) An entity that is registered with the Commission as a futures commission merchant may be a clearing member of the exempt derivatives clearing organization, or otherwise maintain an account with an affiliated broker that is a clearing member, for the purpose of clearing swaps only for itself and those persons identified in the definition of “proprietary account” set forth in § 1.3 of this chapter; and
(2)
Open access.
The exempt derivatives clearing organization shall have rules with respect to swaps to which one or more of the counterparties is a U.S. person that shall:
(i) Provide that all swaps with the same terms and conditions, as defined by product specifications established under the exempt derivatives clearing organization's rules, submitted to the exempt derivatives clearing organization for clearing are economically equivalent within the exempt derivatives clearing organization and may be offset with each other within the exempt derivatives clearing organization, to the extent offsetting is permitted by the exempt derivatives clearing organization's rules; and
(ii) Provide that there shall be non-discriminatory clearing of a swap executed bilaterally or on or subject to the rules of an unaffiliated electronic matching platform or trade execution facility.
(3)
Consent to jurisdiction; designation of agent for service of process.
The exempt derivatives clearing organization shall:
(i) Consent to jurisdiction in the United States;
(ii) Designate, authorize, and identify to the Commission, an agent in the United States who shall accept any notice or service of process, pleadings, or other documents, including any summons, complaint, order, subpoena, request for information, or any other written or electronic documentation or correspondence issued by or on behalf of the Commission or the United States Department of Justice to the exempt derivatives clearing organization, in connection with any actions or proceedings brought against, or investigations relating to, the exempt derivatives clearing organization or any U.S. person or futures commission merchant that is a clearing member, or that clears swaps through a clearing member, of the exempt derivatives clearing organization; and
(iii) Promptly inform the Commission of any change in its designated and authorized agent.
(4)
Compliance.
The exempt derivatives clearing organization shall comply, and shall demonstrate compliance as requested by the Commission, with any condition of its exemption.
(5)
Inspection of books and records.
The exempt derivatives clearing organization shall make all documents, books, records, reports, and other information related to its operation as an exempt derivatives clearing organization open to inspection and copying by any representative of the Commission; and in response to a request by any representative of the Commission, the exempt derivatives clearing organization shall, promptly and in the form specified, make the requested books and records available and provide them directly to Commission representatives.
(6)
Observance of the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures.
On an annual basis, within 60 days following the end of its fiscal year, the exempt derivatives clearing organization shall provide to the Commission a certification that it continues to observe the
Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures in all material respects. To the extent the exempt derivatives clearing organization is unable to provide to the Commission an unconditional certification, it must identify the underlying material non-observance of the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures and identify whether and how such non-observance has been or is being resolved by means of corrective action taken by the exempt derivatives clearing organization.
(7)
Representation of good regulatory standing.
On an annual basis, within 60 days following the end of its fiscal year, an exempt derivatives clearing organization shall request and the Commission must receive from a home country regulator a written representation that the exempt derivatives clearing organization is in good regulatory standing.
(8)
Other conditions.
The Commission may condition an exemption on any other facts and circumstances it deems relevant.
(c)
General reporting requirements.
(1) An exempt derivatives clearing organization shall provide to the Commission the information specified in this paragraph and any other information that the Commission deems necessary, including, but not limited to, information for the purpose of the Commission evaluating the continued eligibility of the exempt derivatives clearing organization for exemption from registration, reviewing compliance by the exempt derivatives clearing organization with any conditions of the exemption, or conducting oversight of U.S. persons and their affiliates, and the swaps that are cleared by such persons through the exempt derivatives clearing organization. Information provided to the Commission under this paragraph shall be submitted in accordance with § 39.19(b).
(2) Each exempt derivatives clearing organization shall provide to the Commission the following information:
(i) A report compiled as of the end of each trading day and submitted to the Commission by 10:00 a.m. U.S. Central time on the following business day, containing:
(A) Initial margin requirements and initial margin on deposit for each U.S. person, with respect to swaps,
provided however
if a clearing member margins on a portfolio basis its own positions and the positions of its affiliates, and either the clearing member or any of its affiliates is a U.S. person, the exempt derivatives clearing organization shall report initial margin on deposit for all such positions on a combined basis for each such clearing member; and
(B) Daily variation margin, separately listing the mark-to-market amount collected from or paid to each U.S. person, with respect to swaps;
provided, however,
if a clearing member margins on a portfolio basis its own positions and the positions of its affiliates, and either the clearing member or any of its affiliates is a U.S. person, the exempt derivatives clearing organization shall separately list the mark-to-market amount collected from or paid to each such clearing member, on a combined basis.
(ii) A report compiled as of the last day of each fiscal quarter of the exempt derivatives clearing organization and submitted to the Commission no later than 17 business days after the end of the exempt derivatives clearing organization's fiscal quarter, containing:
(A) The aggregate clearing volume of U.S. persons during the fiscal quarter, with respect to swaps. If a clearing member is a U.S. person, the volume figure shall include the transactions of the clearing member and all affiliates. If a clearing member is not a U.S. person, the volume figure shall include only transactions of affiliates that are U.S. persons.
(B) The average open interest of U.S. persons during the fiscal quarter, with respect to swaps. If a clearing member is a U.S. person, the open interest figure shall include the positions of the clearing member and all affiliates. If a clearing member is not a U.S. person, the open interest figure shall include only positions of affiliates that are U.S. persons.
(C) A list of U.S. persons and futures commission merchants that are either clearing members or affiliates of any clearing member, with respect to the clearing of swaps, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter.
(iii) Prompt notice regarding any change in the home country regulatory regime that is material to the exempt derivatives clearing organization's continuing observance of the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures or compliance with any of the requirements set forth in this section or in the order of exemption issued by the Commission;
(iv) As available to the exempt derivatives clearing organization, any assessment of the exempt derivatives clearing organization's or the home country regulator's observance of the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures, or any portion thereof, by a home country regulator or other national authority, or an international financial institution or international organization;
(v) As available to the exempt derivatives clearing organization, any examination report, examination findings, or notification of the commencement of any enforcement or disciplinary action by a home country regulator;
(vi) Immediate notice of any change with respect to the exempt derivatives clearing organization's licensure, registration, or other authorization to act as a derivatives clearing organization in its home country;
(vii) In the event of a default by a U.S. person or futures commission merchant clearing swaps, with such event of default determined in accordance with the rules of the exempt derivatives clearing organization, immediate notice of the default including the name of the U.S. person or futures commission merchant clearing swaps, a list of the positions held by the U.S. person or futures commission merchant, and the amount of the U.S. person's or futures commission merchant's financial obligation; and
(viii) Notice of action taken against a U.S. person or futures commission merchant clearing swaps by an exempt derivatives clearing organization, no later than two business days after the exempt derivatives clearing organization takes such action against a U.S. person or futures commission merchant.
(d)
Swap data reporting requirements.
If an exempt derivatives clearing organization accepts for clearing a swap that has been reported to a swap data repository pursuant to part 45 of this chapter, the exempt derivatives clearing organization shall report to a swap data repository data regarding the two swaps resulting from the novation of the original swap. The exempt derivatives clearing organization shall also report the termination of the original swap to the swap data repository to which the original swap was reported. In order to avoid duplicative reporting for such transactions, the exempt derivatives clearing organization shall have rules that prohibit the reporting, pursuant to part 45 of this chapter, of the two new swaps by the counterparties to the original swap.
(e)
Application procedures.
(1) An entity seeking to be exempt from registration as a derivatives clearing organization shall file an application for exemption with the Secretary of the Commission in the format and manner specified by the Commission. The Commission will review the application for exemption and may approve or deny the application or, if deemed appropriate, exempt the applicant from registration as a derivatives clearing organization subject to conditions in addition to those set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
Application.
An applicant for exemption from registration as a derivatives clearing organization shall submit to the Commission the information and documentation described in this section. Such information and documentation shall be clearly labeled as outlined in this section. The Commission will not commence processing an application unless the applicant has filed a complete application. Upon its own initiative, an applicant may file with its completed application for exemption additional information that may be necessary or helpful to the Commission in processing the application. The application shall include:
(i) A cover letter containing the following information:
(A) Exact name of applicant as specified in its charter, and the name under which business will be conducted (including acronyms);
(B) Address of applicant's principal office;
(C) List of principal office(s) and address(es) where clearing activities are/will be conducted;
(D) A list of all regulatory licenses or registrations of the applicant (or exemptions from any licensing requirement) and the regulator granting such license or registration;
(E) Date of the applicant's fiscal year end;
(F) Contact information for the person or persons to whom the Commission should address questions and correspondence regarding the application; and
(G) A signature and date by a duly authorized representative of the applicant.
(ii) A description of the applicant's business plan for providing clearing services as an exempt derivatives clearing organization, including information as to the classes of swaps that will be cleared and whether the swaps are subject to a clearing requirement issued by the Commission or the applicant's home country regulator;
(iii) Documents that demonstrate that the applicant is organized in a jurisdiction in which its home country regulator applies to the applicant, on an ongoing basis, statutes, rules, regulations, policies, or a combination thereof that, taken together, are consistent with the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures;
(iv) A written representation from the applicant's home country regulator that the applicant is in good regulatory standing;
(v) Copies of the applicant's most recent disclosures that are necessary to observe the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures, including the financial market infrastructure disclosure template set forth in Annex A to the Disclosure Framework and Assessment Methodology for the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures, any other such disclosure framework issued under the authority of the International Organization of Securities Commissions that is required for observance of the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures, and the URL to the specific page(s) on the applicant's website where such disclosures may be found;
(vi) A representation that the applicant will comply with each of the requirements and conditions of exemption set forth in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, and the terms and conditions of its order of exemption as issued by the Commission;
(vii) A copy of the applicant's rules that meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) and (d) of this section, as applicable; and
(viii) The applicant's consent to jurisdiction in the United States, and the name and address of the applicant's designated agent in the United States, pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3)
Submission of supplemental information.
At any time during its review of the application for exemption from registration as a derivatives clearing organization, the Commission may request that the applicant submit supplemental information in order for the Commission to process the application, and the applicant shall file such supplemental information in the format and manner specified by the Commission.
(4)
Amendments to pending application.
An applicant for exemption from registration as a derivatives clearing organization shall promptly amend its application if it discovers a material omission or error, or if there is a material change in the information provided to the Commission in the application or other information provided in connection with the application.
(5)
Public information.
The following sections of an application for exemption from registration as a derivatives clearing organization will be public: The cover letter set forth in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section; the documentation required in paragraphs (e)(2)(iii) and (e)(2)(v) of this section; rules that meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) and (d) of this section, as applicable; and any other part of the application not covered by a request for confidential treatment, subject to § 145.9 of this chapter.
(f)
Modification or termination of exemption upon Commission initiative.
(1) The Commission may, in its discretion and upon its own initiative, terminate or modify the terms and conditions of an order of exemption from derivatives
clearing organization registration if the Commission determines that there are changes to or omissions in material facts or circumstances pursuant to which the order of exemption was issued, or that any of the terms and conditions of its order of exemption have not been met, including, but not limited to, the requirement that:
(i) The exempt derivatives clearing organization observes the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures in all material respects; or
(ii) The exempt derivatives clearing organization is subject to comparable, comprehensive supervision and regulation by its home country regulator.
(2) The Commission shall provide written notification to an exempt derivatives clearing organization that it is considering whether to terminate or modify an exemption pursuant to this paragraph and the basis for that consideration.
(3) The exempt derivatives clearing organization may respond to the notification in writing no later than 30 business days following receipt of the notification, or at such later time as the Commission permits in writing.
(4) Following receipt of a response from the exempt derivatives clearing organization, or after expiration of the time permitted for a response, the Commission may:
(i) Issue an order of termination, effective as of a date to be specified therein. Such specified date shall be intended to provide the exempt derivatives clearing organization with a reasonable amount of time to wind down its swap clearing services for U.S. persons;
(ii) Issue an amended order of exemption that modifies the terms and conditions of the exemption; or
(iii) Provide written notification to the exempt derivatives clearing organization that the exemption will remain in effect without modification to the terms and conditions of the exemption.
(g)
Termination of exemption upon request by an exempt derivatives clearing organization.
(1) An exempt derivatives clearing organization may petition the Commission to terminate its exemption if:
(i) Changed circumstances result in the exempt derivatives clearing organization no longer qualifying for an exemption;
(ii) The exempt derivatives clearing organization intends to cease clearing swaps for U.S. persons; or
(iii) In conjunction with the petition, the exempt derivatives clearing organization submits an application for registration in accordance with § 39.3(a)(2) or § 39.3(a)(3), as applicable, to become a registered derivatives clearing organization pursuant to section 5b(a) of the Act.
(2) The petition for termination of exemption shall include a detailed explanation of the facts and circumstances supporting the request and the exempt derivatives clearing organization's plans for, as may be applicable, the liquidation or transfer of the swaps positions and related collateral of U.S. persons.
(3) The Commission shall issue an order of termination within a reasonable time appropriate to the circumstances or, as applicable, in conjunction with the issuance of an order of registration.
(h)
Notice to clearing members of termination of exemption.
Following the Commission's issuance of an order of termination (unless issued in conjunction with the issuance of an order of registration), the exempt derivatives clearing organization shall provide immediate notice of such termination to its clearing members. Such notice shall include:
(1) A copy of the Commission's order of termination;
(2) A description of the procedures for orderly disposition of any open swaps positions that were cleared for U.S. persons; and
(3) An instruction to clearing members, requiring that they provide the exempt derivatives clearing organization's notice of such termination to all U.S. persons clearing swaps through such clearing members.
[86 FR 965, Jan. 7, 2021]
§ 39.7
Enforceability.
An agreement, contract or transaction submitted to a derivatives clearing organization for clearing shall not be void, voidable, subject to rescission, or otherwise invalidated or rendered unenforceable as a result of:
(a) A violation by the derivatives clearing organization of the provisions of the Act or of Commission regulations; or
(b) Any Commission proceeding to alter or supplement a rule under section 8a(7) of the Act, to declare an emergency under section 8a(9) of the Act, or any other proceeding the effect of which is to alter, supplement, or require a derivatives clearing organization to adopt a specific rule or procedure, or to take or refrain from taking a specific action.
§ 39.8
Fraud in connection with the clearing of transactions on a derivatives clearing organization.
It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, in or in connection with the clearing of transactions by a derivatives clearing organization:
(a) To cheat or defraud or attempt to cheat or defraud any person;
(b) Willfully to make or cause to be made to any person any false report or statement or cause to be entered for any person any false record; or
(c) Willfully to deceive or attempt to deceive any person by any means whatsoever.

# Subpart B—Compliance with Core Principles
§ 39.9
Scope.
Except as otherwise provided by Commission order, the provisions of this subpart B apply to any derivatives clearing organization, as defined under section 1a(15) of the Act and § 1.3 of this chapter, that is registered with the Commission as a derivatives clearing organization pursuant to section 5b of the Act. The provisions of this subpart B do not apply to any exempt derivatives clearing organization, as defined under § 39.2.
[86 FR 968, Jan. 7, 2021]
§ 39.10
Compliance with core principles.
(a) To be registered and to maintain registration as a derivatives clearing organization, a derivatives clearing organization shall comply with each core principle set forth in section 5b(c)(2) of the Act and any requirement that the Commission may impose by rule or regulation pursuant to section 8a(5) of the Act; and
(b) Subject to any rule or regulation prescribed by the Commission, a registered derivatives clearing organization shall have reasonable discretion in establishing the manner by which it complies with each core principle.
(c)
Chief compliance officer
—(1)
Designation.
Each derivatives clearing organization shall establish the position of chief compliance officer, designate an individual to serve as the chief compliance officer, and provide the chief compliance officer with the full responsibility and authority to develop and enforce, in consultation with the board of directors or the senior officer, appropriate compliance policies and procedures, to fulfill the duties set forth in the Act and Commission regulations.
(i) The individual designated to serve as chief compliance officer shall have the background and skills appropriate for fulfilling the responsibilities of the position. No individual who would be disqualified from registration under sections 8a(2) or 8a(3) of the Act may serve as a chief compliance officer.
(ii) The chief compliance officer shall report to the board of directors or the senior officer of the derivatives clearing organization or, if the derivatives clearing organization engages in substantial activities not related to clearing, the senior officer responsible for the derivatives clearing organization's clearing activities. The board of directors or the senior officer shall approve the compensation of the chief compliance officer.
(iii) The chief compliance officer shall meet with the board of directors or the senior officer at least once a year.
(iv) A change in the designation of the individual serving as the chief compliance officer of the derivatives clearing organization shall be reported to the Commission in accordance with the requirements of § 39.19(c)(4)(x).
(2)
Chief compliance officer duties.
The chief compliance officer's duties shall include, but are not limited to:
(i) Reviewing the derivatives clearing organization's compliance with the core principles set forth in section 5b of
the Act, and the Commission's regulations thereunder;
(ii) In consultation with the board of directors or the senior officer, resolving any conflicts of interest that may arise;
(iii) Establishing and administering written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the Act;
(iv) Taking reasonable steps to ensure compliance with the Act and Commission regulations relating to agreements, contracts, or transactions, and with Commission regulations prescribed under section 5b of the Act;
(v) Establishing procedures for the remediation of noncompliance issues identified by the chief compliance officer through any compliance office review, look-back, internal or external audit finding, self-reported error, or validated complaint; and
(vi) Establishing and following appropriate procedures for the handling, management response, remediation, retesting, and closing of noncompliance issues.
(3)
Annual report.
The chief compliance officer shall, not less than annually, prepare and sign a written report that covers the most recently completed fiscal year of the derivatives clearing organization. The annual report shall, at a minimum:
(i) Contain a description of the derivatives clearing organization's written policies and procedures, including the code of ethics and conflict of interest policies; provided that, to the extent that the derivatives clearing organization's written policies and procedures have not materially changed since they were most recently described in an annual report to the Commission, and if the annual report containing the most recent description was submitted within the last five years, the annual report may instead incorporate by reference the relevant descriptions from the most recent annual report containing the description;
(ii) Review each core principle and applicable Commission regulation in this chapter including, in the case of systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations, regulations in subpart C of this part, and with respect to each:
(A) Identify, by name, rule number, or other identifier, the compliance policies and procedures that are designed to ensure compliance with each core principle and applicable regulation in this chapter;
(B) Provide an assessment as to the effectiveness of these policies and procedures;
(C) Discuss areas for improvement, and recommend potential or prospective changes or improvements to the derivatives clearing organization's compliance program and resources allocated to compliance;
(iii) List any material changes to compliance policies and procedures since the last annual report;
(iv) Describe the financial, managerial, and operational resources set aside for compliance with the Act and Commission regulations; and
(v) Describe any material compliance matters, including incidents of noncompliance, since the date of the last annual report, and describe the corresponding action taken.
(4)
Submission of annual report to the Commission.
(i) Prior to submitting the annual report to the Commission, the chief compliance officer shall provide the annual report to the board of directors or the senior officer of the derivatives clearing organization or, if the derivatives clearing organization engages in substantial activities not related to clearing, the senior officer responsible for the derivatives clearing organization's clearing activities, for review. Submission of the report to the board of directors or the senior officer shall be recorded in the board minutes or otherwise, as evidence of compliance with the requirement in this paragraph (c)(4)(i). The annual report shall describe the process by which it was submitted to the board of directors or the senior officer. When submitted to the Commission, the annual report shall be accompanied by a cover letter, notice, or other document that specifies the date on which it was submitted to the board of directors or the senior officer.
(ii) The annual report shall be submitted to the Secretary of the Commission in the format and manner specified by the Commission not more
than 90 days after the end of the derivatives clearing organization's fiscal year. The report shall include a certification by the chief compliance officer that, to the best of his or her knowledge and reasonable belief, and under penalty of law, the annual report is accurate and complete.
(iii) The derivatives clearing organization shall promptly submit an amended annual report if material errors or omissions in the report are identified after submission. An amendment must contain the certification required under paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section.
(iv) A derivatives clearing organization may request from the Commission an extension of time to submit its annual report in accordance with § 39.19(c)(3) of this part.
(5)
Recordkeeping.
(i) The derivatives clearing organization shall maintain:
(A) A copy of all compliance policies and procedures and all other policies and procedures adopted in furtherance of compliance with the Act and Commission regulations;
(B) Copies of materials, including written reports provided to the board of directors or the senior officer in connection with the review of the annual report under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section; and
(C) Any records relevant to the annual report, including, but not limited to, work papers and other documents that form the basis of the report, and memoranda, correspondence, other documents, and records that are created, sent, or received in connection with the annual report and contain conclusions, opinions, analyses, or financial data related to the annual report.
(ii) The derivatives clearing organization shall maintain records in accordance with § 1.31 of this chapter and § 39.20 of this part.
(d)
Enterprise risk management
—(1)
General.
A derivatives clearing organization shall have an enterprise risk management program that identifies and assesses sources of risk and their potential impact on the operations and services of the derivatives clearing organization. The derivatives clearing organization shall measure, monitor, and manage identified sources of risk on an ongoing basis, including through the development and use of appropriate information systems. The derivatives clearing organization shall test the effectiveness of any mitigating controls employed to reduce identified sources of risk to ensure that the risks are properly mitigated.
(2)
Enterprise risk management framework.
A derivatives clearing organization shall establish and maintain written policies and procedures, approved by its board of directors or a committee of the board of directors that establish an appropriate enterprise risk management framework. The framework shall be reviewed at least annually by the board of directors or committee of the board of directors and updated as necessary.
(3)
Standards for enterprise risk management framework.
A derivatives clearing organization shall follow generally accepted standards and industry best practices in the development and review of its enterprise risk management framework, assessment of the performance of its enterprise risk management program, and management and mitigation of risk to the derivatives clearing organization.
(4)
Enterprise risk officer.
A derivatives clearing organization shall identify as its enterprise risk officer an appropriate individual that exercises the full responsibility and authority to manage the enterprise risk management program of the derivatives clearing organization. The enterprise risk officer shall have the authority, independence, resources, expertise, and access to relevant information necessary to fulfill the responsibilities of the position, including access to the board of directors of the organization for which the enterprise risk officer is responsible for managing the risks or an appropriate committee thereof, consistent with the requirements of this section.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 4852, Jan. 27, 2020]
§ 39.11
Financial resources.
(a)
General.
A derivatives clearing organization shall have adequate financial, operational, and managerial resources, as determined by the Commission, to discharge each responsibility
of the derivatives clearing organization. A derivatives clearing organization shall maintain sufficient financial resources to cover its exposures with a high degree of confidence. At a minimum, each derivatives clearing organization shall possess financial resources that exceed the total amount that would:
(1) Enable the derivatives clearing organization to meet its financial obligations to its clearing members notwithstanding a default by the clearing member creating the largest financial exposure for the derivatives clearing organization in extreme but plausible market conditions; Provided that if a clearing member controls another clearing member or is under common control with another clearing member, the affiliated clearing members shall be deemed to be a single clearing member for purposes of this provision; and
(2) Enable the derivatives clearing organization to cover its operating costs for a period of at least one year, calculated on a rolling basis. A derivatives clearing organization shall identify and adequately manage its general business risks and hold sufficient liquid resources to cover potential business losses that are not related to clearing members' defaults, so that the derivatives clearing organization can continue to provide services as a going concern.
(b)
Types of financial resources.
(1) Financial resources available to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section may include:
(i) The derivatives clearing organization's own capital;
(ii) Guaranty fund deposits;
(iii) Default insurance;
(iv) Potential assessments for additional guaranty fund contributions, if permitted by the derivatives clearing organization's rules; and
(v) Any other financial resource deemed acceptable by the Commission.
(2) Financial resources available to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section may include:
(i) The derivatives clearing organization's own capital; and
(ii) Any other financial resource deemed acceptable by the Commission.
(3) A financial resource may be allocated, in whole or in part, to satisfy the requirements of either paragraph (a)(1) or paragraph (a)(2) of this section, but not both paragraphs, and only to the extent the use of such financial resource is not otherwise limited by the Act, Commission regulations, the derivatives clearing organization's rules, or any contractual arrangements to which the derivatives clearing organization is a party.
(c)
Calculation of financial resources requirements.
(1) A derivatives clearing organization shall, on a monthly basis, perform stress tests that will allow it to make a reasonable calculation of the financial resources needed to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The derivatives clearing organization shall have reasonable discretion in determining the methodology used to calculate the requirements, subject to the limitations identified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and provided that the methodology must take into account both historical data and hypothetical scenarios. The Commission may review the methodology and require changes as appropriate. The requirements of this paragraph (c) do not apply to fully collateralized positions.
(2) When calculating its largest financial exposure, a derivatives clearing organization:
(i) In netting its exposure against the clearing member's initial margin, shall:
(A) Use only that portion of the margin amount on deposit (including initial margin and any add-ons) that is required; and
(B) Use customer margin (including initial margin and any add-ons) only to the extent permitted by parts 1 and 22 of this chapter, as applicable;
(ii) Shall combine the customer and house stress test losses of each clearing member using the same stress test scenarios;
(iii) May net any gains in the house account with losses in the customer account, if permitted by the derivatives clearing organization's rules, but shall not net losses in the house account with gains in the customer account; and
(iv) With respect to a clearing member's cleared swaps customer account,
may net customer gains against customer losses only to the extent permitted by the derivatives clearing organization's rules.
(3) A derivatives clearing organization shall, on a monthly basis, make a reasonable calculation of its projected operating costs over a 12-month period in order to determine the amount needed to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The derivatives clearing organization shall have reasonable discretion in determining the methodology used to compute such projected operating costs. The Commission may review the methodology and require changes as appropriate.
(d)
Valuation of financial resources.
(1) At appropriate intervals, but not less than monthly, a derivatives clearing organization shall compute the current market value of each financial resource used to meet its obligations under paragraph (a) of this section. Reductions in value to reflect credit, market, and liquidity risks (haircuts) shall be applied as appropriate and evaluated on a monthly basis.
(2) If assessments for additional guaranty fund contributions are permitted by the derivatives clearing organization's rules, in calculating the financial resources available to meet its obligations under paragraph (a)(1) of this section:
(i) The derivatives clearing organization shall have rules requiring that its clearing members have the ability to meet an assessment within the time frame of a normal end-of-day variation settlement cycle;
(ii) The derivatives clearing organization shall monitor the financial and operational capacity of its clearing members to meet potential assessments;
(iii) The derivatives clearing organization shall apply a 30 percent haircut to the value of potential assessments, and
(iv) The derivatives clearing organization shall only count the value of assessments, after the haircut, to meet up to 20 percent of the total amount required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The value of the assessments may be determined by using the largest financial exposure in extreme but plausible market conditions prior to netting against required initial margin on deposit.
(e)
Liquidity of financial resources.
(1) (i) The derivatives clearing organization shall effectively measure, monitor, and manage its liquidity risks, maintaining sufficient liquid resources such that it can, at a minimum, fulfill its cash obligations when due. The derivatives clearing organization shall hold assets in a manner where the risk of loss or of delay in its access to them is minimized.
(ii) The financial resources allocated by the derivatives clearing organization to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be sufficiently liquid to enable the derivatives clearing organization to fulfill its obligations as a central counterparty during a one-day settlement cycle. The derivatives clearing organization shall maintain cash, U.S. Treasury obligations, or high quality, liquid, general obligations of a sovereign nation, in an amount greater than or equal to an amount calculated as follows:
(A) Calculate the average daily settlement variation pay for each clearing member over the last fiscal quarter;
(B) Calculate the sum of those average daily settlement variation pays; and
(C) Using that sum, calculate the average of its clearing members' average daily settlement variation pays.
(iii) If the total amount of the financial resources required pursuant to the calculation set forth in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section is insufficient to enable the derivatives clearing organization to fulfill its obligations during a one-day settlement cycle, the derivatives clearing organization may take into account a committed line of credit or similar facility for the purpose of meeting the remainder of the requirement of this paragraph (e) (subject to the limitation in paragraph (e)(3) of this section).
(iv) A derivatives clearing organization is not subject to paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section for fully collateralized positions.
(2) The financial resources allocated by the derivatives clearing organization to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section must include unencumbered, liquid financial
assets (
i.e.,
cash and/or highly liquid securities) sufficient to enable the derivatives clearing organization to cover its operating costs for a period of at least six months. If the financial resources allocated to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section do not include such assets in a sufficient amount, the derivatives clearing organization may take into account a committed line of credit or similar facility for the purpose of meeting the requirements of this paragraph (subject to the limitation in paragraph (e)(3) of this section).
(3) A committed line of credit or similar facility may be allocated, in whole or in part, to satisfy the requirements of either paragraph (e)(1)(ii) or (e)(2) of this section, but not both paragraphs.
(4)(i) Assets in a guaranty fund shall have minimal credit, market, and liquidity risks and shall be readily accessible on a same-day basis;
(ii) Cash balances shall be invested or placed in safekeeping in a manner that bears little or no principal risk; and
(iii) Letters of credit shall not be a permissible asset for a guaranty fund.
(f)
Reporting requirements.
(1)
Quarterly reporting.
Each fiscal quarter, or at any time upon Commission request, a derivatives clearing organization shall:
(i) Report to the Commission;
(A) The amount of financial resources necessary to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and §§ 39.33(a) and 39.39(d), if applicable;
(B) The value of each financial resource available, computed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section; and
(C) The manner in which the derivatives clearing organization meets the liquidity requirements of paragraph (e) of this section;
(ii) Provide the Commission with a financial statement, including the balance sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows, prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, of the derivatives clearing organization;
provided, however,
that for a derivatives clearing organization that is incorporated or organized under the laws of any foreign country, the financial statement may be prepared in accordance with either U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or the International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board; and
(iii) Report to the Commission the value of each individual clearing member's guaranty fund deposit, if the derivatives clearing organization reports having guaranty fund deposits as a financial resource available to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section and §§ 39.33(a) and 39.39(d), if applicable.
(iv) The calculations required by this paragraph (f) shall be made as of the last business day of the derivatives clearing organization's fiscal quarter. The report shall be submitted not later than 17 business days after the end of the derivatives clearing organization's fiscal quarter, or at such later time as the Commission may permit, in its discretion, upon request by the derivatives clearing organization.
(2)
Annual reporting.
(i) A derivatives clearing organization shall submit to the Commission an audited year-end financial statement of the derivatives clearing organization calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; provided, however, that for a derivatives clearing organization that is incorporated or organized under the laws of any foreign country, the financial statement may be prepared in accordance with either U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or the International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
(ii) The report required by paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section shall be submitted not later than 90 days after the end of the derivatives clearing organization's fiscal year, or at such later time as the Commission may permit, in its discretion, upon request by the derivatives clearing organization.
(iii) A derivatives clearing organization shall submit concurrently with the audited year-end financial statement required by paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section:
(A) A reconciliation, including appropriate explanations, of its balance sheet in the audited year-end financial
statement with the balance sheet in the derivatives clearing organization's financial statement for the last quarter of the fiscal year when material differences exist or, if no material differences exist, a statement so indicating; and
(B) Such further information as may be necessary to make the statements not misleading.
(3)
Other reporting.
(i) A derivatives clearing organization shall provide to the Commission as part of its first report under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, and in the event of any change thereafter:
(A) Sufficient documentation explaining the methodology used to compute its financial resources requirements under paragraph (a) of this section and §§ 39.33(a) and 39.39(d), if applicable; and
(B) Sufficient documentation explaining the basis for its determinations regarding the valuation and liquidity requirements set forth in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization shall provide to the Commission copies of any agreements establishing or amending a credit facility, insurance coverage, or other arrangement evidencing or otherwise supporting the derivatives clearing organization's conclusions regarding its:
(A) Financial resources available to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and §§ 39.33(a) and 39.39(d), if applicable; and
(B) Liquidity resources available to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section and § 39.33(c), if applicable.
(4)
Certification.
A derivatives clearing organization shall provide with each report submitted pursuant to this section a certification by the person responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the report that, to the best of his or her knowledge and reasonable belief, and under penalty of law, the information contained in the report is accurate and complete.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 4852, Jan. 27, 2020; 85 FR 35805, June 12, 2020]
§ 39.12
Participant and product eligibility.
(a)
Participant eligibility.
A derivatives clearing organization shall have appropriate admission and continuing participation requirements for clearing members of the derivatives clearing organization that are objective, publicly disclosed, and risk-based.
(1) Fair and open access for participation. The participation requirements shall permit fair and open access;
(i) A derivatives clearing organization shall not have restrictive clearing member standards if less restrictive requirements that achieve the same objective and that would not materially increase risk to the derivatives clearing organization or clearing members could be adopted;
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization shall allow all market participants who satisfy participation requirements to become clearing members;
(iii) A derivatives clearing organization shall not exclude or limit clearing membership of certain types of market participants unless the derivatives clearing organization can demonstrate that the restriction is necessary to address credit risk or deficiencies in the participants' operational capabilities that would prevent them from fulfilling their obligations as clearing members.
(iv) A derivatives clearing organization shall not require that clearing members be swap dealers.
(v) A derivatives clearing organization shall not require that clearing members maintain a swap portfolio of any particular size, or that clearing members meet a swap transaction volume threshold.
(vi) No derivatives clearing organization shall require as a condition of accepting a swap for clearing that a futures commission merchant enter into an arrangement with a customer that:
(A) Discloses to the futures commission merchant or any swap dealer or major swap participant the identity of a customer's original executing counterparty;
(B) Limits the number of counterparties with whom a customer may enter into trades;
(C) Restricts the size of the position a customer may take with any individual counterparty, apart from an overall limit for all positions held by the customer at the futures commission merchant;
(D) Impairs a customer's access to execution of a trade on terms that have a reasonable relationship to the best terms available; or
(E) Prevents compliance with the time frames set forth in § 1.74(b), § 23.610(b), or § 39.12(b)(7) of this chapter.
(2)
Financial resources.
(i) The participation requirements shall require clearing members to have access to sufficient financial resources to meet obligations arising from participation in the derivatives clearing organization in extreme but plausible market conditions. A derivatives clearing organization may permit such financial resources to include, without limitation, a clearing member's capital, a guarantee from the clearing member's parent, or a credit facility funding arrangement. For purposes of this paragraph, “capital” means adjusted net capital as defined in § 1.17 of this chapter, for futures commission merchants, and net capital as defined in § 240.15c3-1of this title, for broker-dealers, or any similar risk adjusted capital calculation for all other clearing members.
(ii) The participation requirements shall set forth capital requirements that are based on objective, transparent, and commonly accepted standards that appropriately match capital to risk. Capital requirements shall be scalable to the risks posed by clearing members.
(iii) A derivatives clearing organization shall not set a minimum capital requirement of more than $50 million for any person that seeks to become a clearing member in order to clear swaps.
(3)
Operational requirements.
The participation requirements shall require clearing members to have adequate operational capacity to meet obligations arising from participation in the derivatives clearing organization. The requirements shall include, but are not limited to: the ability to process expected volumes and values of transactions cleared by a clearing member within required time frames, including at peak times and on peak days; the ability to fulfill collateral, payment, and delivery obligations imposed by the derivatives clearing organization; and the ability to participate in default management activities under the rules of the derivatives clearing organization and in accordance with § 39.16 of this part.
(4)
Monitoring.
A derivatives clearing organization shall have procedures to verify, on an ongoing basis, the compliance of each clearing member with each participation requirement of the derivatives clearing organization.
(5)
Reporting.
(i) A derivatives clearing organization shall require all clearing members, including non-futures commission merchants, to provide to the derivatives clearing organization periodic financial reports that contain any financial information that the derivatives clearing organization determines is necessary to assess whether participation requirements are being met on an ongoing basis.
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization shall require clearing members that are futures commission merchants to provide the financial reports that are specified in § 1.10 of this chapter to the derivatives clearing organization.
(iii) A derivatives clearing organization shall require clearing members that are not futures commission merchants to make the periodic financial reports provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section available to the Commission upon the Commission's request or, in lieu of imposing the requirement in this paragraph (a)(5)(iii), a derivatives clearing organization may provide such financial reports directly to the Commission upon the Commission's request.
(iv) A derivatives clearing organization shall have rules that require clearing members to provide to the derivatives clearing organization, in a timely manner, information that concerns any financial or business developments that may materially affect the clearing members' ability to continue to comply with participation requirements under this section.
(v) The requirements in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) and (iii) of this section shall not apply with respect to non-futures
commission merchant clearing members of a derivatives clearing organization that only clear fully collateralized positions.
(6)
Enforcement.
A derivatives clearing organization shall have the ability to enforce compliance with its participation requirements and shall have procedures for the suspension and orderly removal of clearing members that no longer meet the requirements.
(b)
Product eligibility.
(1) A derivatives clearing organization shall have appropriate requirements for determining the eligibility of agreements, contracts, or transactions submitted to the derivatives clearing organization for clearing, taking into account the derivatives clearing organization's ability to manage the risks associated with such agreements, contracts, or transactions. Factors to be considered in determining product eligibility include, but are not limited to:
(i) Trading volume;
(ii) Liquidity;
(iii) Availability of reliable prices;
(iv) Ability of market participants to use portfolio compression with respect to a particular swap product;
(v) Ability of the derivatives clearing organization and clearing members to gain access to the relevant market for purposes of creating, liquidating, transferring, auctioning, and/or allocating positions;
(vi) Ability of the derivatives clearing organization to measure risk for purposes of setting margin requirements; and
(vii) Operational capacity of the derivatives clearing organization and clearing members to address any unusual risk characteristics of a product.
(2) A derivatives clearing organization that clears swaps shall have rules providing that all swaps with the same terms and conditions, as defined by product specifications established under derivatives clearing organization rules, submitted to the derivatives clearing organization for clearing are economically equivalent within the derivatives clearing organization and may be offset with each other within the derivatives clearing organization.
(3) A derivatives clearing organization shall provide for non-discriminatory clearing of a swap executed bilaterally or on or subject to the rules of an unaffiliated swap execution facility or designated contract market.
(4) A derivatives clearing organization shall not require that one of the original executing parties be a clearing member in order for a product to be eligible for clearing.
(5) A derivatives clearing organization shall select product unit sizes and other terms and conditions that maximize liquidity, facilitate transparency in pricing, promote open access, and allow for effective risk management. To the extent appropriate to further these objectives, a derivatives clearing organization shall select product units for clearing purposes that are smaller than the product units in which trades submitted for clearing were executed.
(6) A derivatives clearing organization that clears swaps shall have rules providing that, upon acceptance of a swap by the derivatives clearing organization for clearing:
(i) The original swap is extinguished;
(ii) The original swap is replaced by an equal and opposite swap between the derivatives clearing organization and each clearing member acting as principal for a house trade or acting as agent for a customer trade;
(iii) All terms of a cleared swap must conform to product specifications established under derivatives clearing organization rules; and
(iv) If a swap is cleared by a clearing member on behalf of a customer, all terms of the swap, as carried in the customer account on the books of the clearing member, must conform to the terms of the cleared swap established under the derivatives clearing organization's rules.
(7)
Time frame for clearing
—(i)
Coordination with markets and clearing members.
(A) Each derivatives clearing organization shall coordinate with each designated contract market and swap execution facility that lists for trading a product that is cleared by the derivatives clearing organization in developing rules and procedures to facilitate prompt, efficient, and accurate processing of all transactions submitted to the derivatives clearing organization for clearing.
(B) Each derivatives clearing organization shall coordinate with each clearing member that is a futures commission merchant, swap dealer, or major swap participant to establish systems that enable the clearing member, or the derivatives clearing organization acting on its behalf, to accept or reject each trade submitted to the derivatives clearing organization for clearing by or for the clearing member or a customer of the clearing member as quickly as would be technologically practicable if fully automated systems were used.
(ii)
Transactions executed competitively on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market or swap execution facility.
A derivatives clearing organization shall have rules that provide that the derivatives clearing organization will accept or reject for clearing as quickly after execution as would be technologically practicable if fully automated systems were used, all contracts that are listed for clearing by the derivatives clearing organization and are executed competitively on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market or a swap execution facility. The derivatives clearing organization shall accept all trades:
(A) For which the executing parties have clearing arrangements in place with clearing members of the derivatives clearing organization;
(B) For which the executing parties identify the derivatives clearing organization as the intended clearinghouse; and
(C) That satisfy the criteria of the derivatives clearing organization, including but not limited to applicable risk filters; provided that such criteria are non-discriminatory across trading venues and are applied as quickly as would be technologically practicable if fully automated systems were used.
(iii)
Swaps not executed on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market or a swap execution facility or executed non-competitively on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market or a swap execution facility.
A derivatives clearing organization shall have rules that provide that the derivatives clearing organization will accept or reject for clearing as quickly after submission to the derivatives clearing organization as would be technologically practicable if fully automated systems were used, all swaps that are listed for clearing by the derivatives clearing organization and are not executed on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market or a swap execution facility or executed non-competitively on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market or a swap execution facility. The derivatives clearing organization shall accept all trades:
(A) That are submitted by the parties to the derivatives clearing organization, in accordance with § 23.506 of this chapter;
(B) For which the executing parties have clearing arrangements in place with clearing members of the derivatives clearing organization;
(C) For which the executing parties identify the derivatives clearing organization as the intended clearinghouse; and
(D) That satisfy the criteria of the derivatives clearing organization, including but not limited to applicable risk filters; provided that such criteria are non-discriminatory across trading venues and are applied as quickly as would be technologically practicable if fully automated systems were used.
(8)
Confirmation.
A derivatives clearing organization shall provide each clearing member carrying a cleared swap with a definitive written record of the terms of the transaction which shall legally supersede any previous agreement and serve as a confirmation of the swap. The confirmation of all terms of the transaction shall take place at the same time as the swap is accepted for clearing.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 21309, Apr. 9, 2012; 85 FR 4855, Jan. 27, 2020]
§ 39.13
Risk management.
(a)
General.
A derivatives clearing organization shall ensure that it possesses the ability to manage the risks associated with discharging the responsibilities of the derivatives clearing organization through the use of appropriate tools and procedures.
(b)
Risk management framework.
A derivatives clearing organization shall have and implement written policies, procedures, and controls, approved by
its board of directors, that establish an appropriate risk management framework that, at a minimum, clearly identifies and documents the range of risks to which the derivatives clearing organization is exposed, addresses the monitoring and management of the entirety of those risks, and provides a mechanism for internal audit. The risk management framework shall be regularly reviewed and updated as necessary.
(c)
Chief risk officer.
A derivatives clearing organization shall have a chief risk officer who shall be responsible for implementing the risk management framework, including the procedures, policies and controls described in paragraph (b) of this section, and for making appropriate recommendations to the derivatives clearing organization's risk management committee or board of directors, as applicable, regarding the derivatives clearing organization's risk management functions.
(d) [Reserved]
(e)
Measurement of credit exposure.
A derivatives clearing organization shall:
(1) Measure its credit exposure to each clearing member and mark to market such clearing member's open house and customer positions at least once each business day; and
(2) Monitor its credit exposure to each clearing member periodically during each business day.
(f)
Limitation of exposure to potential losses from defaults.
A derivatives clearing organization shall limit its exposure to potential losses from defaults by its clearing members through margin requirements and other risk control mechanisms reasonably designed to ensure that:
(1) The operations of the derivatives clearing organization would not be disrupted; and
(2) Non-defaulting clearing members would not be exposed to losses that non-defaulting clearing members cannot anticipate or control.
(g)
Margin requirements
—(1)
General.
Each model and parameter used in setting initial margin requirements shall be risk-based and reviewed on a regular basis.
(2)
Methodology and coverage.
(i) A derivatives clearing organization shall have initial margin requirements that are commensurate with the risks of each product and portfolio, including any unusual characteristics of, or risks associated with, particular products or portfolios.
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization shall use models that generate initial margin requirements sufficient to cover the derivatives clearing organization's potential future exposures to clearing members based on price movements in the interval between the last collection of variation margin and the time within which the derivatives clearing organization estimates that it would be able to liquidate a defaulting clearing member's positions (liquidation time);
provided, however,
that a derivatives clearing organization shall use:
(A) A minimum liquidation time that is one day for futures and options;
(B) A minimum liquidation time that is one day for swaps on agricultural commodities, energy commodities, and metals;
(C) A minimum liquidation time that is five days for all other swaps; or
(D) Such longer liquidation time as is appropriate based on the specific characteristics of a particular product or portfolio;
provided further
that the Commission, by order, may establish shorter or longer liquidation times for particular products or portfolios.
(iii) The actual coverage of the initial margin requirements produced by such models, along with projected measures of the models' performance, shall meet an established confidence level of at least 99 percent, based on data from an appropriate historic time period, for:
(A) Each product for which the derivatives clearing organization uses a product-based margin methodology;
(B) Each spread within or between products for which there is a defined spread margin rate;
(C) Each account held by a clearing member at the derivatives clearing organization, by house origin and by each customer origin; and
(D) Each swap portfolio, including any portfolio containing futures and/or options and held in a commingled account pursuant to § 39.15(b)(2) of this part, by beneficial owner.
(iv) A derivatives clearing organization shall determine the appropriate historic time period based on the characteristics, including volatility patterns, as applicable, of each product, spread, account, or portfolio.
(3)
Independent validation.
A derivatives clearing organization shall have its systems for generating initial margin requirements, including its theoretical models, reviewed and validated by a qualified and independent party on an annual basis. Where no material changes to the margin model have occurred, previous validations can be reviewed and affirmed as part of the annual review process. Qualified and independent parties may be independent contractors or employees of the derivatives clearing organization, or of an affiliate of the derivatives clearing organization, but shall not be persons responsible for development or operation of the systems and models being tested.
(4)
Spread and portfolio margins.
(i) A derivatives clearing organization may allow reductions in initial margin requirements for related positions if the price risks with respect to such positions are significantly and reliably correlated. The price risks of different positions will only be considered to be reliably correlated if there is a conceptual basis for the correlation in addition to an exhibited statistical correlation. That conceptual basis may include, but is not limited to, the following:
(A) The products on which the positions are based are complements of, or substitutes for, each other;
(B) One product is a significant input into the other product(s);
(C) The products share a significant common input; or
(D) The prices of the products are influenced by common external factors.
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization shall regularly review its margin reductions and the correlations on which they are based.
(5)
Price data.
A derivatives clearing organization shall have a reliable source of timely price data in order to measure the derivatives clearing organization's credit exposure accurately. A derivatives clearing organization shall also have written procedures and sound valuation models for addressing circumstances where pricing data is not readily available or reliable.
(6)
Daily review.
On a daily basis, a derivatives clearing organization shall determine the adequacy of its initial margin requirements.
(7)
Backtests.
A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct backtests, as defined in § 39.2 of this part, using an appropriate time period but not less than the previous 30 days, as follows:
(i) On a daily basis, a derivatives clearing organization shall conduct backtests with respect to products or swap portfolios that are experiencing significant market volatility, to test the adequacy of its initial margin requirements, as follows:
(A) For that product if the derivatives clearing organization uses a product-based margin methodology;
(B) For each spread involving that product if there is a defined spread margin rate;
(C) For each account held by a clearing member at the derivatives clearing organization that contains a significant position in that product, by house origin and by each customer origin; and
(D) For each such swap portfolio, including any portfolio containing futures and/or options and held in a commingled account pursuant to § 39.15(b)(2) of this part, by beneficial owner.
(ii) On at least a monthly basis, a derivatives clearing organization shall conduct backtests to test the adequacy of its initial margin requirements, as follows:
(A) For each product for which the derivatives clearing organization uses a product-based margin methodology;
(B) For each spread for which there is a defined spread margin rate;
(C) For each account held by a clearing member at the derivatives clearing organization, by house origin and by each customer origin; and
(D) For each swap portfolio, including any portfolio containing futures and/or options and held in a commingled account pursuant to § 39.15(b)(2) of this part, by beneficial owner.
(iii) In conducting backtests of initial margin requirements, a derivatives clearing organization shall compare
portfolio losses only to those components of initial margin that capture changes in market risk factors.
(8)
Customer margin
—(i)
Gross margin.
(A) During the end-of-day settlement cycle, a derivatives clearing organization shall collect initial margin on a gross basis for each clearing member's customer account(s) equal to the sum of the initial margin amounts that would be required by the derivatives clearing organization for each individual customer within that account if each individual customer were a clearing member.
(B) For purposes of calculating the gross initial margin requirement for each clearing member's customer account(s), a derivatives clearing organization shall have rules that require its clearing members to provide to the derivatives clearing organization reports each day setting forth end-of-day gross positions of each individual customer account within each customer origin of the clearing member.
(C) A derivatives clearing organization may not, and may not permit its clearing members to, net positions of different customers against one another.
(D) A derivatives clearing organization may collect initial margin for its clearing members' house accounts on a net basis.
(E) For purposes of this paragraph (g)(8)(i), each separate account of a separate account customer (as such terms are defined in § 1.44 of this chapter) shall be treated as an account of a separate individual customer.
(ii)
Customer initial margin requirements.
A derivatives clearing organization shall require its clearing members to collect customer initial margin at a level that is not less than 100 percent of the derivatives clearing organization's clearing initial margin requirements with respect to each product and portfolio and commensurate with the risk presented by each customer account. The derivatives clearing organization shall have reasonable discretion in determining clearing initial margin requirements for products or portfolios. The derivatives clearing organization shall also have reasonable discretion in determining whether and by how much customer initial margin requirements shall, at a minimum, exceed clearing initial margin requirements for categories of customers determined by the clearing member to have heightened risk profiles. The Commission may review such customer initial margin levels and require different levels if the Commission deems the levels insufficient to protect the financial integrity of the derivatives clearing organization or its clearing members.
(iii)
Withdrawal of customer initial margin.
A derivatives clearing organization shall require its clearing members to ensure that their customers do not withdraw funds from their accounts with such clearing members unless the net liquidating value plus the margin deposits remaining in a customer's account after such withdrawal are sufficient to meet the customer initial margin requirements with respect to all products and swap portfolios held in such customer's account which are cleared by the derivatives clearing organization, except as provided for in § 1.44 of this chapter.
(9)
Time deadlines.
A derivatives clearing organization shall establish and enforce time deadlines for initial and variation margin payments to the derivatives clearing organization by its clearing members.
(10)
Types of assets.
A derivatives clearing organization shall limit the assets it accepts as initial margin to those that have minimal credit, market, and liquidity risks. A derivatives clearing organization may take into account the specific risk-reducing properties that particular assets have in a particular portfolio. A derivatives clearing organization may accept letters of credit as initial margin for futures and options on futures but shall not accept letters of credit as initial margin for swaps.
(11)
Valuation.
A derivatives clearing organization shall use prudent valuation practices to value assets posted as initial margin on a daily basis.
(12)
Haircuts.
A derivatives clearing organization shall apply appropriate reductions in value to reflect credit, market, and liquidity risks (haircuts), to the assets that it accepts in satisfaction of initial margin obligations, taking into consideration stressed market
conditions, and shall evaluate the appropriateness of the haircuts on at least a monthly basis.
(13)
Concentration limits or charges.
A derivatives clearing organization shall apply appropriate limitations or charges on the concentration of assets posted as initial margin, as necessary, in order to ensure its ability to liquidate such assets quickly with minimal adverse price effects, and shall evaluate the appropriateness of any such concentration limits or charges, on at least a monthly basis.
(14)
Pledged assets.
If a derivatives clearing organization permits its clearing members to pledge assets for initial margin while retaining such assets in accounts in the names of such clearing members, the derivatives clearing organization shall ensure that such assets are unencumbered and that such a pledge has been validly created and validly perfected in the relevant jurisdiction.
(h)
Other risk control mechanisms
—(1)
Risk limits.
(i) A derivatives clearing organization shall impose risk limits on each clearing member, by house origin and by each customer origin, in order to prevent a clearing member from carrying positions for which the risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold relative to the clearing member's and/or the derivatives clearing organization's financial resources. The derivatives clearing organization shall have reasonable discretion in determining:
(A) The method of computing risk exposure;
(B) The applicable threshold(s); and
(C) The applicable financial resources under this provision; provided however, that the ratio of exposure to capital must remain the same across all capital levels. The Commission may review such methods, thresholds, and financial resources and require the application of different methods, thresholds, or financial resources, as appropriate.
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization may permit a clearing member to exceed the threshold(s) applied pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section provided that the derivatives clearing organization requires the clearing member to post additional initial margin that the derivatives clearing organization deems sufficient to appropriately eliminate excessive risk exposure at the clearing member. The Commission may review the amount of additional initial margin and require a different amount of additional initial margin, as appropriate.
(2)
Large trader reports.
A derivatives clearing organization shall obtain from its clearing members or from a relevant designated contract market or swap execution facility, copies of all reports that are required to be filed with the Commission by, or on behalf of, such clearing members pursuant to parts 17 and 20 of this chapter. A derivatives clearing organization shall review such reports on a daily basis to ascertain the risk of the overall portfolio of each large trader, including futures, options, and swaps cleared by the derivatives clearing organization, which are held by all clearing members carrying accounts for each such large trader, and shall take additional actions with respect to such clearing members, when appropriate, as specified in paragraph (h)(6) of this section, in order to address any risks posed by any such large trader.
(3)
Stress tests.
A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct stress tests, as defined in § 39.2 of this part, as follows:
(i) On a daily basis, a derivatives clearing organization shall conduct stress tests with respect to each large trader who poses significant risk to a clearing member or the derivatives clearing organization, including futures, options, and swaps cleared by the derivatives clearing organization, which are held by all clearing members carrying accounts for each such large trader. The derivatives clearing organization shall have reasonable discretion in determining which traders to test and the methodology used to conduct such stress tests. The Commission may review the selection of accounts and the methodology and require changes, as appropriate.
(ii) On at least a weekly basis, a derivatives clearing organization shall conduct stress tests with respect to each clearing member account, by house origin and by each customer origin, and each swap portfolio, including any portfolio containing futures and/or
options and held in a commingled account pursuant to § 39.15(b)(2) of this part, by beneficial owner, under extreme but plausible market conditions. The derivatives clearing organization shall have reasonable discretion in determining the methodology used to conduct such stress tests. The Commission may review the methodology and require changes, as appropriate.
(iii) The requirements in paragraphs (h)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section do not apply with respect to clearing member accounts that hold only fully collateralized positions.
(4)
Portfolio compression.
A derivatives clearing organization shall make portfolio compression exercises available, on a regular and voluntary basis, for its clearing members that clear swaps, to the extent that such exercises are appropriate for those swaps that it clears;
provided, however,
a derivatives clearing organization is not required to develop its own portfolio compression services, and is only required to make such portfolio compression exercises available, if applicable portfolio compression services have been developed by a third party.
(5)
Clearing members' risk management policies and procedures.
(i) A derivatives clearing organization shall have rules that:
(A) Require its clearing members to maintain current written risk management policies and procedures, which address the risks that such clearing members may pose to the derivatives clearing organization; and
(B) Require its clearing members to provide to the derivatives clearing organization or the Commission, upon request, information and documents regarding their risk management policies, procedures, and practices, including, but not limited to, information and documents relating to the liquidity of their financial resources and their settlement procedures.
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization shall review the risk management policies, procedures, and practices of each of its clearing members, which address the risks that such clearing members may pose to the derivatives clearing organization, on a periodic basis, take appropriate action to address concerns identified in such reviews, and document such reviews and the basis for determining what action was appropriate to take.
(iii) A derivatives clearing organization that clears fully collateralized positions may exclude from the requirements of paragraphs (h)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section those clearing members that clear only fully collateralized positions.
(6)
Additional authority.
A derivatives clearing organization shall take additional actions with respect to particular clearing members, when appropriate, based on the application of objective and prudent risk management standards including, but not limited to:
(i) Imposing enhanced capital requirements;
(ii) Imposing enhanced margin requirements;
(iii) Imposing position limits;
(iv) Prohibiting an increase in positions;
(v) Requiring a reduction of positions;
(vi) Liquidating or transferring positions; and
(vii) Suspending or revoking clearing membership.
(i)
Cross-margining.
(1) A derivatives clearing organization that seeks to implement or modify a cross-margining program with one or more clearing organizations shall submit rules for Commission approval pursuant to § 40.5 of this chapter. The submission shall include information sufficient for the Commission to understand the risks that would be posed by the program and the means by which the derivatives clearing organization would address and mitigate those risks.
(2) The Commission may request additional information in support of a rule submission filed under this paragraph (i), and may approve such rules in accordance with § 40.5 of this chapter.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 4855, Jan. 27, 2020; 85 FR 35805, June 12, 2020; 88 FR 53682, Aug. 8, 2023; 90 FR 7939, Jan. 22, 2025]
§ 39.14
Settlement procedures.
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Settlement.
For purposes of this section, “settlement” means:
(i) Payment and receipt of variation margin for futures, options, and swaps;
(ii) Payment and receipt of option premiums;
(iii) Deposit and withdrawal of initial margin for futures, options, and swaps;
(iv) All payments due in final settlement of futures, options, and swaps on the final settlement date with respect to such positions; and
(v) All other cash flows collected from or paid to each clearing member, including but not limited to, payments related to swaps such as coupon amounts.
(2)
Settlement bank.
For purposes of this section, “settlement bank” means a bank that maintains an account either for the derivatives clearing organization or for any of its clearing members, which is used for the purpose of any settlement described in paragraph (a)(1) above.
(b)
Daily settlements.
Except as otherwise provided by Commission order, a derivatives clearing organization shall effect a settlement with each clearing member at least once each business day, and shall have the authority and operational capacity to effect a settlement with each clearing member, on an intraday basis, either routinely, when thresholds specified by the derivatives clearing organization are breached, or in times of extreme market volatility.
(c)
Settlement banks.
A derivatives clearing organization shall employ settlement arrangements that eliminate or strictly limit its exposure to settlement bank risks, including the credit and liquidity risks arising from the use of such bank(s) to effect settlements with its clearing members, as follows:
(1) A derivatives clearing organization shall have documented criteria that must be met by any settlement bank used by the derivatives clearing organization or its clearing members, including criteria addressing the capitalization, creditworthiness, access to liquidity, operational reliability, and regulation or supervision of such bank(s).
(2) A derivatives clearing organization shall monitor each approved settlement bank on an ongoing basis to ensure that such bank continues to meet the criteria established pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(3) A derivatives clearing organization shall monitor the full range and concentration of its exposures to its own and its clearing members' settlement bank(s) and assess its own and its clearing members' potential losses and liquidity pressures in the event that the settlement bank with the largest share of settlement activity were to fail. A derivatives clearing organization shall take any one or more of the following actions, to the extent that any such action or actions are reasonably necessary in order to eliminate or strictly limit such exposures:
(i) Maintain settlement accounts at one or more additional settlement banks; and/or
(ii) Approve one or more additional settlement banks that its clearing members could choose to use; and/or
(iii) Impose concentration limits with respect to one or more of its own or its clearing members' settlement banks; and/or
(iv) Take any other appropriate actions.
(d)
Settlement finality.
A derivatives clearing organization shall ensure that settlements are final when effected by ensuring that it has entered into legal agreements that state that settlement fund transfers are irrevocable and unconditional no later than when the derivatives clearing organization's accounts are debited or credited; provided, however, a derivatives clearing organization's legal agreements with its settlement banks may provide for the correction of errors. A derivatives clearing organization's legal agreements with its settlement banks shall state clearly when settlement fund transfers will occur and a derivatives clearing organization shall routinely confirm that its settlement banks are effecting fund transfers as and when required by such legal agreements.
(e)
Recordkeeping.
A derivatives clearing organization shall maintain an accurate record of the flow of funds associated with each settlement.
(f)
Netting arrangements.
A derivatives clearing organization shall possess the ability to comply with each term and condition of any permitted netting or offset arrangement with any other clearing organization.
(g)
Physical delivery.
With respect to products that are settled by physical transfers of the underlying instruments or commodities, a derivatives clearing organization shall:
(1) Establish rules that clearly state each obligation that the derivatives clearing organization has assumed with respect to physical deliveries, including whether it has an obligation to make or receive delivery of a physical instrument or commodity, or whether it indemnifies clearing members for losses incurred in the delivery process; and
(2) Ensure that the risks of each such obligation are identified and managed.
§ 39.15
Treatment of funds.
(a)
Required standards and procedures.
A derivatives clearing organization shall establish standards and procedures that are designed to protect and ensure the safety of funds and assets belonging to clearing members and their customers.
(b)
Customer funds
— (1)
Segregation.
A derivatives clearing organization shall comply with the applicable segregation requirements of section 4d of the Act and Commission regulations in this part, or any other applicable Commission regulation in this chapter or order requiring that customer funds and assets, including money, securities, and property, be segregated, set aside, or held in a separate account.
(2)
Commingling.
In order for a derivatives clearing organization and its clearing members to commingle customer positions in futures, options, foreign futures, foreign options, and swaps, or any combination thereof, and any money, securities, or property received to margin, guarantee or secure such positions, in an account subject to the requirements of sections 4d(a) or 4d(f) of the Act, the derivatives clearing organization shall file rules for Commission approval pursuant to the requirements and standard of review of § 40.5 of this chapter. Such rule submission shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(i) Identification of the products that would be commingled, including product specifications or the criteria that would be used to define eligible products;
(ii) Analysis of the risk characteristics of the eligible products and of the derivatives clearing organization's ability to manage those risks, addressing any characteristics that are unusual in relation to the other products cleared by the derivatives clearing organization, such as margining, liquidity, default management, pricing, or other risk characteristics;
(iii) Analysis of the liquidity of the respective markets for the eligible products, the ability of clearing members and the derivatives clearing organization to offset or mitigate the risk of such eligible products in a timely manner, without compromising the financial integrity of the account, and, as appropriate, proposed means for addressing insufficient liquidity;
(iv) A description of any additional requirements that would apply to clearing members permitted to commingle eligible products;
(v) A description of any risk management changes that the derivatives clearing organization will implement to oversee its clearing members' risk management of eligible products, or an analysis of why existing risk management systems and procedures are adequate in connection with the proposed commingling;
(vi) An analysis of the ability of the derivatives clearing organization to manage a potential default with respect to any of the eligible products that would be commingled, including a discussion of any default management procedures that are unique to the products eligible for commingling;
(vii) A discussion of the extent to which the derivatives clearing organization anticipates allowing portfolio margining of commingled positions, including a description and analysis of any margin reduction applied to correlated positions and the language of any applicable clearing rules or procedures, and an express confirmation that any portfolio margining will be allowed only as permitted under § 39.13(g)(4); and
(viii) Any other information necessary for the Commission to determine the rule submission's compliance with the Act and the Commission's regulations in this chapter, which the
Commission may request as supplemental information if not provided in the initial submission. The Commission may extend the review period for the rule submission in accordance with § 40.5(d) of this chapter in order to request and obtain supplemental information as necessary.
(c)
Holding of funds and assets.
A derivatives clearing organization shall hold funds and assets belonging to clearing members and their customers in a manner which minimizes the risk of loss or of delay in the access by the derivatives clearing organization to such funds and assets.
(d)
Transfer of customer positions.
A derivatives clearing organization shall have rules providing that the derivatives clearing organization will promptly transfer all or a portion of a customer's portfolio of positions, and related funds as necessary, from the carrying clearing member of the derivatives clearing organization to another clearing member of the derivatives clearing organization, without requiring the close-out and re-booking of the positions prior to the requested transfer, subject to the following conditions:
(1) The customer has instructed the carrying clearing member to make the transfer;
(2) The customer is not currently in default to the carrying clearing member;
(3) The transferred positions will have appropriate margin at the receiving clearing member;
(4) Any remaining positions will have appropriate margin at the carrying clearing member; and
(5) The receiving clearing member has consented to the transfer.
(e)
Permitted investments.
Funds and assets belonging to clearing members and their customers that are invested by a derivatives clearing organization shall be held in instruments with minimal credit, market, and liquidity risks. Any investment of customer funds or assets, including cleared swaps customer collateral, as defined in § 22.1 of this chapter, by a derivatives clearing organization shall comply with § 1.25 of this chapter.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 4856, Jan. 27, 2020; 88 FR 53683, Aug. 8, 2023]
§ 39.16
Default rules and procedures.
(a)
General.
A derivatives clearing organization shall have rules and procedures designed to allow for the efficient, fair, and safe management of events during which clearing members become insolvent or default on the obligations of such clearing members to the derivatives clearing organization.
(b)
Default management plan.
A derivatives clearing organization shall maintain a current written default management plan that delineates the roles and responsibilities of its board of directors, its risk management committee, any other committee that a derivatives clearing organization may have that has responsibilities for default management, and the derivatives clearing organization's management, in addressing a default, including any necessary coordination with, or notification of, other entities and regulators. Such plan shall address any differences in procedures with respect to highly liquid products and less liquid products. A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct and document a test of its default management plan at least on an annual basis. The derivatives clearing organization shall include clearing members and participants in a test of its default management plan at least on an annual basis to the extent the plan relies on their participation.
(c)
Default procedures.
(1) A derivatives clearing organization shall have procedures that would permit the derivatives clearing organization to take timely action to contain losses and liquidity pressures and to continue meeting its obligations in the event of a default on the obligations of a clearing member to the derivatives clearing organization.
(2) A derivatives clearing organization shall have rules that set forth its default procedures, including:
(i) The derivatives clearing organization's definition of a default;
(ii) The actions that the derivatives clearing organization may take upon a
default, which shall include public notice of a declaration of default on its website and the prompt transfer, liquidation, or hedging of the customer or house positions of the defaulting clearing member, as applicable, and which may include, in the discretion of the derivatives clearing organization, the auctioning or allocation of such positions to other clearing members;
(iii) Any obligations that the derivatives clearing organization imposes on its clearing members to participate in auctions, or to accept allocations, of the customer or house positions of the defaulting clearing member,
provided that:
(A) The derivatives clearing organization shall permit a clearing member to outsource to a qualified third party, authority to act in the clearing member's place in any auction, subject to appropriate safeguards imposed by the derivatives clearing organization;
(B) The derivatives clearing organization shall permit a clearing member to outsource to a qualified third party, authority to act in the clearing member's place in any allocations, subject to appropriate safeguards imposed by the derivatives clearing organization; and
(C) The derivatives clearing organization shall not require a clearing member to bid for a portion of, or accept an allocation of, the defaulting clearing member's positions that is not proportional to the size of the bidding or accepting clearing member's positions in the same product class at the derivatives clearing organization;
(iv) The sequence in which the funds and assets of the defaulting clearing member and its customers and the financial resources maintained by the derivatives clearing organization would be applied in the event of a default;
(v) A provision that the funds and assets of a defaulting clearing member's customers shall not be applied to cover losses with respect to a house default;
(vi) A provision that the excess house funds and assets of a defaulting clearing member shall be applied to cover losses with respect to a customer default, if the relevant customer funds and assets are insufficient to cover the shortfall; and
(3) A derivatives clearing organization shall make its default rules publicly available as provided in § 39.21 of this part.
(d)
Insolvency of a clearing member.
(1) A derivatives clearing organization shall have rules that require a clearing member to provide prompt notice to the derivatives clearing organization if it becomes the subject of a bankruptcy petition, receivership proceeding, or the equivalent;
(2) No later than upon receipt of such notice, a derivatives clearing organization shall review the continuing eligibility of the clearing member for clearing membership; and
(3) No later than upon receipt of such notice, a derivatives clearing organization shall take any appropriate action, in its discretion, with respect to such clearing member or its house or customer positions, including but not limited to liquidation or transfer of positions, suspension, or revocation of clearing membership.
(e)
Fully collateralized positions.
A derivatives clearing organization may satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section by having rules that permit it to clear only fully collateralized positions.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 4857, Jan. 27, 2020]
§ 39.17
Rule enforcement.
(a)
General.
A derivatives clearing organization shall:
(1) Maintain adequate arrangements and resources for the effective monitoring and enforcement of compliance (by itself and its clearing members) with the rules of the derivatives clearing organization and the resolution of disputes;
(2) Have the authority and ability to discipline, limit, suspend, or terminate the activities of a clearing member due to a violation by the clearing member of any rule of the derivatives clearing organization; and
(3) Report to the Commission regarding rule enforcement activities and sanctions imposed against clearing members as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, in accordance with § 39.19(c)(4)(xvi).
(b)
Authority to enforce rules.
The board of directors of the derivatives
clearing organization may delegate responsibility for compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section to an appropriate committee, unless the responsibilities are otherwise required to be carried out by the chief compliance officer pursuant to the Act or this part.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 4858, Jan. 27, 2020]
§ 39.18
System safeguards.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section and § 39.34:
Controls
mean the safeguards or countermeasures employed by the derivatives clearing organization in order to protect the reliability, security, or capacity of its automated systems or the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of its data and information, and in order to enable the derivatives clearing organization to fulfill its statutory and regulatory responsibilities.
Controls testing
means assessment of the derivatives clearing organization's controls to determine whether such controls are implemented correctly, are operating as intended, and are enabling the derivatives clearing organization to meet the requirements established by this section.
Enterprise technology risk assessment
means a written assessment that includes, but is not limited to, an analysis of threats and vulnerabilities in the context of mitigating controls. An enterprise technology risk assessment identifies, estimates, and prioritizes risks to a derivatives clearing organization's operations or assets, or to market participants, individuals, or other entities, resulting from impairment of the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of data and information or the reliability, security, or capacity of automated systems.
External penetration testing
means attempts to penetrate a derivatives clearing organization's automated systems from outside the systems' boundaries to identify and exploit vulnerabilities. Methods of conducting external penetration testing include, but are not limited to, methods for circumventing the security features of an automated system.
Internal penetration testing
means attempts to penetrate a derivatives clearing organization's automated systems from inside the systems' boundaries to identify and exploit vulnerabilities. Methods of conducting internal penetration testing include, but are not limited to, methods for circumventing the security features of an automated system.
Key controls
means those controls that an appropriate risk analysis determines are either critically important for effective system safeguards or intended to address risks that evolve or change more frequently and therefore require more frequent review to ensure their continuing effectiveness in addressing such risks.
Recovery time objective
means the time period within which a derivatives clearing organization should be able to achieve recovery and resumption of processing, clearing, and settlement of transactions, after those capabilities become temporarily inoperable for any reason up to or including a wide-scale disruption.
Relevant area
means the metropolitan or other geographic area within which a derivatives clearing organization has physical infrastructure or personnel necessary for it to conduct activities necessary to the processing, clearing, and settlement of transactions. The term “relevant area” also includes communities economically integrated with, adjacent to, or within normal commuting distance of that metropolitan or other geographic area.
Security incident
means a cybersecurity or physical security event that actually jeopardizes or has a significant likelihood of jeopardizing automated system operation, reliability, security, or capacity, or the availability, confidentiality or integrity of data.
Security incident response plan
means a written plan documenting the derivatives clearing organization's policies, controls, procedures, and resources for identifying, responding to, mitigating, and recovering from security incidents, and the roles and responsibilities of its management, staff, and independent contractors in responding to security incidents. A security incident response plan may be a separate document or a business continuity-disaster recovery plan section or appendix dedicated to security incident response.
Security incident response plan testing
means testing of a derivatives clearing organization's security incident response plan to determine the plan's effectiveness, identify its potential weaknesses or deficiencies, enable regular plan updating and improvement, and maintain organizational preparedness and resiliency with respect to security incidents. Methods of conducting security incident response plan testing may include, but are not limited to, checklist completion, walk-through or table-top exercises, simulations, and comprehensive exercises.
Vulnerability testing
means testing of a derivatives clearing organization's automated systems to determine what information may be discoverable through a reconnaissance analysis of those systems and what vulnerabilities may be present on those systems.
Wide-scale disruption
means an event that causes a severe disruption or destruction of transportation, telecommunications, power, water, or other critical infrastructure components in a relevant area, or an event that results in an evacuation or unavailability of the population in a relevant area.
(b)
Program of risk analysis and oversight
—(1)
General.
A derivatives clearing organization shall establish and maintain a program of risk analysis and oversight with respect to its operations and automated systems to identify and minimize sources of operational risk through:
(i) The development of appropriate controls and procedures; and
(ii) The development of automated systems that are reliable, secure, and have adequate scalable capacity.
(2)
Elements of program.
A derivatives clearing organization's program of risk analysis and oversight with respect to its operations and automated systems, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, shall address each of the following elements:
(i) Information security, including, but not limited to, controls relating to: Access to systems and data (including, least privilege, separation of duties, account monitoring and control); user and device identification and authentication; security awareness training; audit log maintenance, monitoring, and analysis; media protection; personnel security and screening; automated system and communications protection (including, network port control, boundary defenses, encryption); system and information integrity (including, malware defenses, software integrity monitoring); vulnerability management; penetration testing; security incident response and management; and any other elements of information security included in generally accepted best practices;
(ii) Business continuity and disaster recovery planning and resources, including, but not limited to the controls and capabilities described in paragraph (c) of this section; and any other elements of business continuity and disaster recovery planning and resources included in generally accepted best practices;
(iii) Capacity and performance planning, including, but not limited to, controls for monitoring the derivatives clearing organization's systems to ensure adequate scalable capacity (including, testing, monitoring, and analysis of current and projected future capacity and performance, and of possible capacity degradation due to planned automated system changes); and any other elements of capacity and performance planning included in generally accepted best practices;
(iv) Systems operations, including, but not limited to, system maintenance; configuration management (including, baseline configuration, configuration change and patch management, least functionality, inventory of authorized and unauthorized devices and software); event and problem response and management; and any other elements of system operations included in generally accepted best practices;
(v) Systems development and quality assurance, including, but not limited to, requirements development; pre-production and regression testing; change management procedures and approvals; outsourcing and vendor management; training in secure coding practices; and any other elements of systems development and quality assurance included in generally accepted best practices; and
(vi) Physical security and environmental controls, including, but not
limited to, physical access and monitoring; power, telecommunication, and environmental controls; fire protection; and any other elements of physical security and environmental controls included in generally accepted best practices.
(3)
Standards for program.
In addressing the elements listed under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a derivatives clearing organization shall follow generally accepted standards and industry best practices with respect to the development, operation, reliability, security, and capacity of automated systems.
(4)
Resources.
A derivatives clearing organization shall establish and maintain resources that allow for the fulfillment of each obligation and responsibility of the derivatives clearing organization, including the daily processing, clearing, and settlement of transactions, in light of any risk to its operations and automated systems. The derivatives clearing organization shall periodically verify the adequacy of such resources.
(c)
Business continuity and disaster recovery
—(1)
General.
A derivatives clearing organization shall establish and maintain a business continuity and disaster recovery plan, emergency procedures, and physical, technological, and personnel resources sufficient to enable the timely recovery and resumption of operations and the fulfillment of each obligation and responsibility of the derivatives clearing organization, including, but not limited to, the daily processing, clearing, and settlement of transactions, following any disruption of its operations.
(2)
Recovery time objective.
A derivatives clearing organization's business continuity and disaster recovery plan, as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, shall have, and the derivatives clearing organization shall maintain physical, technological, and personnel resources sufficient to meet, a recovery time objective of no later than the next business day following a disruption.
(3)
Coordination of plans.
A derivatives clearing organization shall, to the extent practicable:
(i) Coordinate its business continuity and disaster recovery plan with those of its clearing members, in a manner adequate to enable effective resumption of daily processing, clearing, and settlement of transactions following a disruption;
(ii) Initiate and coordinate periodic, synchronized testing of its business continuity and disaster recovery plan with those of its clearing members; and
(iii) Ensure that its business continuity and disaster recovery plan takes into account the plans of its providers of essential services, including telecommunications, power, and water.
(d)
Outsourcing.
(1) A derivatives clearing organization shall maintain the resources required under paragraphs (b)(4) and (c)(1) of this section either:
(i) Using its own employees as personnel, and property that it owns, licenses, or leases; or
(ii) Through written contractual arrangements with another derivatives clearing organization or other service provider.
(2)
Retention of responsibility.
A derivatives clearing organization that enters into a contractual outsourcing arrangement shall retain complete responsibility for any failure to meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. The derivatives clearing organization must employ personnel with the expertise necessary to enable it to supervise the service provider's delivery of the services.
(3)
Testing of resources.
The testing referred to in paragraph (e) of this section shall apply to all of the derivatives clearing organization's own and outsourced resources, and shall verify that all such resources will work together effectively. Where testing is required to be conducted by an independent contractor, the derivatives clearing organization shall engage a contractor that is independent from both the derivatives clearing organization and any outside service provider used to design, develop, or maintain the resources being tested.
(e)
Testing
—(1)
General.
A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct regular, periodic, and objective testing and review of:
(i) Its automated systems to ensure that they are reliable, secure, and have adequate scalable capacity; and
(ii) Its business continuity and disaster recovery capabilities, using testing protocols adequate to ensure that the derivatives clearing organization's backup resources are sufficient to meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Vulnerability testing.
A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct vulnerability testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(8) of this section.
(i) A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct such vulnerability testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis, but no less frequently than quarterly.
(ii) Such vulnerability testing shall include automated vulnerability scanning, which shall follow generally accepted best practices.
(iii) A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct vulnerability testing by engaging independent contractors or by using employees of the derivatives clearing organization who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(3)
External penetration testing.
A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct external penetration testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(8) of this section.
(i) A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct such external penetration testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis, but no less frequently than annually.
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization shall engage independent contractors to conduct the required annual external penetration test. A derivatives clearing organization may conduct other external penetration testing by using employees of the derivatives clearing organization who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(4)
Internal penetration testing.
A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct internal penetration testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(8) of this section.
(i) A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct such internal penetration testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis, but no less frequently than annually.
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct internal penetration testing by engaging independent contractors, or by using employees of the derivatives clearing organization who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(5)
Controls testing.
A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct controls testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(8) of this section.
(i) A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct controls testing, which includes testing of each control included in its program of risk analysis and oversight, at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis, but shall test and assess key controls no less frequently than every three years. A derivatives clearing organization may conduct such testing on a rolling basis over the course of the required period.
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization shall engage independent contractors to test and assess the key controls included in the derivatives clearing organization's program of risk analysis and oversight no less frequently than every three years. A derivatives clearing organization may conduct any other controls testing required by this section by using independent contractors or employees of the derivatives clearing organization who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(6)
Security incident response plan testing.
A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct security incident response plan testing sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(8) of this section.
(i) The derivatives clearing organization shall conduct such security incident response plan testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis, but no less frequently than annually.
(ii) The derivatives clearing organization's security incident response plan shall include, without limitation, the
derivatives clearing organization's definition and classification of security incidents, its policies and procedures for reporting security incidents and for internal and external communication and information sharing regarding security incidents, and the hand-off and escalation points in its security incident response process.
(iii) The derivatives clearing organization may coordinate its security incident response plan testing with other testing required by this section or with testing of its other business continuity-disaster recovery and crisis management plans.
(iv) The derivatives clearing organization may conduct security incident response plan testing by engaging independent contractors or by using employees of the derivatives clearing organization.
(7)
Enterprise technology risk assessment.
A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct enterprise technology risk assessments of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(8) of this section.
(i) A derivatives clearing organization shall conduct an enterprise technology risk assessment at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis, but no less frequently than annually. A derivatives clearing organization that has conducted an enterprise technology risk assessment that complies with this section may conduct subsequent assessments by updating the previous assessment.
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization may conduct enterprise technology risk assessments by using independent contractors or employees of the derivatives clearing organization who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being assessed.
(8)
Scope of testing and assessment.
The scope of testing and assessment required by this section shall be broad enough to include the testing of automated systems and controls that a derivatives clearing organization's required program of risk analysis and oversight and its current cybersecurity threat analysis indicate is necessary to identify risks and vulnerabilities that could enable an intruder or unauthorized user or insider to:
(i) Interfere with the derivatives clearing organization's operations or with fulfillment of its statutory and regulatory responsibilities;
(ii) Impair or degrade the reliability, security, or capacity of the derivatives clearing organization's automated systems;
(iii) Add to, delete, modify, exfiltrate, or compromise the integrity of any data related to the derivatives clearing organization's regulated activities; or
(iv) Undertake any other unauthorized action affecting the derivatives clearing organization's regulated activities or the hardware or software used in connection with those activities.
(9)
Internal reporting and review.
Both the senior management and the board of directors of the derivatives clearing organization shall receive and review reports setting forth the results of the testing and assessment required by this section. The derivatives clearing organization shall establish and follow appropriate procedures for the remediation of issues identified through such review, as provided in paragraph (e)(10) of this section, and for evaluation of the effectiveness of testing and assessment protocols.
(10)
Remediation.
A derivatives clearing organization shall identify and document the vulnerabilities and deficiencies in its systems revealed by the testing and assessment required by this section. The derivatives clearing organization shall conduct and document an appropriate analysis of the risks presented by each vulnerability or deficiency to determine and document whether to remediate the vulnerability or deficiency or accept the associated risk. When a derivatives clearing organization determines to remediate a vulnerability or deficiency, it must remediate in a timely manner given the nature and magnitude of the associated risk.
(f)
Recordkeeping.
A derivatives clearing organization shall maintain, and provide to staff of the Division of Clearing and Risk, or any successor division, promptly upon request, pursuant to § 1.31 of this chapter:
(1) Current copies of the derivatives clearing organization's business continuity and disaster recovery plan and other emergency procedures. Such plan and procedures shall be updated at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis, but no less frequently than annually;
(2) All assessments of the derivatives clearing organization's operational risks or system safeguards-related controls;
(3) All reports concerning testing and assessment required by this section, whether conducted by independent contractors or by employees of the derivatives clearing organization; and
(4) All other documents requested by staff of the Division of Clearing and Risk, or any successor division, in connection with Commission oversight of system safeguards pursuant to the Act or Commission regulations, or in connection with Commission maintenance of a current profile of the derivatives clearing organization's automated systems.
(5) Nothing in paragraph (f) of this section shall be interpreted as reducing or limiting in any way a derivatives clearing organization's obligation to comply with § 1.31 of this chapter.
(g)
Notice of exceptional events.
A derivatives clearing organization shall notify staff of the Division of Clearing and Risk, or any successor division, promptly of:
(1) Any hardware or software malfunction, security incident, or targeted threat that materially impairs, or creates a significant likelihood of material impairment, of automated system operation, reliability, security, or capacity; or
(2) Any activation of the derivatives clearing organization's business continuity and disaster recovery plan.
(h)
Notice of planned changes.
A derivatives clearing organization shall provide staff of the Division of Clearing and Risk, or any successor division, timely advance notice of all material:
(1) Planned changes to the derivatives clearing organization's automated systems that may impact the reliability, security, or capacity of such systems; and
(2) Planned changes to the derivatives clearing organization's program of risk analysis and oversight.
[81 FR 64336, Sept. 19, 2016]
§ 39.19
Reporting.
(a)
General.
A derivatives clearing organization shall provide to the Commission the information specified in this section and any other information that the Commission determines to be necessary to conduct oversight of the derivatives clearing organization.
(b)
Submission of reports
—(1)
General requirement.
A derivatives clearing organization shall submit the information required by this section to the Commission in a format and manner specified by the Commission.
(2)
Certification.
When making a submission pursuant to this section, an employee of the derivatives clearing organization must certify that he or she is duly authorized to make such a submission on behalf of the derivatives clearing organization.
(3)
Time zones.
Unless otherwise specified by the Commission or its designee, any stated time in this section is Central time for information concerning derivatives clearing organizations located in that time zone, and Eastern time for information concerning all other derivatives clearing organizations.
(c)
Reporting requirements.
Each registered derivatives clearing organization shall provide to the Commission or other person as may be required or permitted by this paragraph (c) the information specified as follows:
(1)
Daily reporting.
(i) A derivatives clearing organization shall compile as of the end of each trading day, and submit to the Commission by 10 a.m. on the next business day, a report containing the results of the backtesting required under § 39.13(g)(7)(i), and the following information related to all positions, other than fully collateralized positions, in accordance with the data fields set forth in appendix C to this part:
(A) Initial margin requirements and initial margin on deposit for each clearing member, by house origin and by each customer origin, and by each individual customer account. The derivatives clearing organization shall
identify each individual customer account, using both a legal entity identifier, where available, and any internally-generated identifier, within each customer origin for each clearing member;
(B) Daily variation margin, separately listing the mark-to-market amount collected from or paid to each clearing member, by house origin and by each customer origin;
(C) All other daily cash flows relating to clearing and settlement including, but not limited to, option premiums and payments related to swaps such as coupon amounts, collected from or paid to each clearing member, by house origin and by each customer origin; and
(D) End-of-day positions, including as appropriate the risk sensitivities and valuation data that the derivatives clearing organization generates, creates, or calculates in connection with managing the risks associated with such positions, for each clearing member, by house origin and by each customer origin, and by each individual customer account. The derivatives clearing organization shall identify each individual customer account, using both a legal entity identifier, where available, and any internally-generated identifier, within each customer origin for each clearing member.
(ii) The report shall contain the information required by paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section for each of the following, other than fully collateralized positions:
(A) All futures positions, and options positions, as applicable;
(B) All swaps positions; and
(C) All securities positions that are:
(
1
) Held in a customer account subject to section 4d of the Act; or
(
2
) Subject to a cross-margining agreement.
(iii) Notwithstanding the specific fields set forth in appendix C to this part, a derivatives clearing organization may choose to submit, after consultation with staff of the Division of Clearing and Risk, any additional data field that is necessary or appropriate to better capture the information that is being reported.
(2)
Quarterly reporting.
A derivatives clearing organization shall provide to the Commission each fiscal quarter, or at any time upon Commission request, a report of the derivatives clearing organization's financial resources as required by § 39.11(f)(1).
(3)
Annual reporting.
A derivatives clearing organization shall provide to the Commission each year:
(i) The annual report of the chief compliance officer required by § 39.10; and
(ii) Audited year-end financial statements of the derivatives clearing organization as required by § 39.11(f)(2).
(iii) [Reserved]
(iv) The reports required by this paragraph (c)(3) shall be filed not later than 90 days after the end of the derivatives clearing organization's fiscal year, or at such later time as the Commission may permit, in its discretion, upon request by the derivatives clearing organization.
(4)
Event-specific reporting
—(i)
Decrease in financial resources.
If there is a decrease of 25 percent or more in the total value of the financial resources available to satisfy the requirements under § 39.11(a)(1) or § 39.33(a), as applicable, either from the last quarterly report submitted under § 39.11(f) or from the value as of the close of the previous business day, a derivatives clearing organization shall report such decrease to the Commission no later than one business day following the day the 25 percent threshold was reached. The report shall include:
(A) The total value of the financial resources as of the close of business the day the 25 percent threshold was reached;
(B) If reporting a decrease in value from the previous business day, the total value of the financial resources immediately prior to the 25 percent decline;
(C) A breakdown of the value of each financial resource reported in each of paragraphs (c)(4)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, calculated in accordance with the requirements of § 39.11(d) or § 39.33(b), as applicable, including the value of each individual clearing member's guaranty fund deposit if the derivatives clearing organization reports guaranty fund deposits as a financial resource; and
(D) A detailed explanation for the decrease.
(ii)
Decrease in liquidity resources.
If there is a decrease of 25 percent or more in the total value of the liquidity resources available to satisfy the requirements under § 39.11(e) or § 39.33(c), as applicable, either from the last quarterly report submitted under § 39.11(f) or from the value as of the close of the previous business day, a derivatives clearing organization shall report such decrease to the Commission no later than one business day following the day the 25 percent threshold was reached. The report shall include:
(A) The total value of the liquidity resources as of the close of business the day the 25 percent threshold was reached;
(B) If reporting a decrease in value from the previous business day, the total value of the liquidity resources immediately prior to the 25 percent decline;
(C) A breakdown of the value of each liquidity resource reported in each of paragraphs (c)(4)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, calculated in accordance with the requirements of § 39.11(e) or § 39.33(c), as applicable, including the value of each individual clearing member's guaranty fund deposit if the derivatives clearing organization reports guaranty fund deposits as a liquidity resource; and
(D) A detailed explanation for the decrease.
(iii)
Decrease in ownership equity.
A derivatives clearing organization shall report to the Commission no later than two business days prior to an event which the derivatives clearing organization knows or reasonably should know will cause a decrease of 20 percent or more in ownership equity from the last reported ownership equity balance as reported on a quarterly or audited financial statement required to be submitted by paragraph (c)(2) or (c)(3)(ii), respectively, of this section; but in any event no later than two business days after such decrease in ownership equity for events that caused the decrease about which the derivatives clearing organization did not know and reasonably could not have known prior to the event. The report shall include:
(A) Pro forma financial statements reflecting the derivatives clearing organization's estimated future financial condition following the anticipated decrease for reports submitted prior to the anticipated decrease and current financial statements for reports submitted after such a decrease; and
(B) A detailed explanation for the decrease or anticipated decrease in the balance.
(iv)
Six-month liquid asset requirement.
A derivatives clearing organization shall notify the Commission immediately when the derivatives clearing organization knows or reasonably should know of a deficit in the six-month liquid asset requirement of § 39.11(e)(2).
(v)
Change in current assets.
A derivatives clearing organization shall notify the Commission no later than two business days after the derivatives clearing organization's current liabilities exceed its current assets. The notice shall include a balance sheet that reflects the derivatives clearing organization's current assets and current liabilities and an explanation as to the reason for the negative balance.
(vi)
Request to clearing member to reduce its positions.
A derivatives clearing organization shall notify the Commission immediately of a request by the derivatives clearing organization to one of its clearing members to reduce the clearing member's positions. The notice shall include:
(A) The name of the clearing member;
(B) The time the clearing member was contacted;
(C) The number of positions for futures and options, and for swaps, the number of outstanding trades and notional amount, by which the derivatives clearing organization requested the reduction;
(D) All products that are the subject of the request; and
(E) The reason for the request.
(vii)
Determination to transfer or liquidate positions.
A derivatives clearing organization shall notify the Commission immediately of a determination by the derivatives clearing organization that a position it carries for one of its clearing members must be liquidated immediately or transferred immediately, or that the trading of any account of a clearing member shall be
only for the purpose of liquidation because that clearing member has failed to meet an initial or variation margin call or has failed to fulfill any other financial obligation to the derivatives clearing organization. The notice shall include:
(A) The name of the clearing member;
(B) The time the clearing member was contacted;
(C) The products that are subject to the determination;
(D) The number of positions for futures and options, and for swaps, the number of outstanding trades and notional amount, that are subject to the determination; and
(E) The reason for the determination.
(viii)
Default of a clearing member.
A derivatives clearing organization shall notify the Commission immediately of the default of a clearing member. An event of default shall be determined in accordance with the rules of the derivatives clearing organization. The notice of default shall include:
(A) The name of the clearing member;
(B) The products the clearing member defaulted upon;
(C) The number of positions for futures and options, and for swaps, the number of outstanding trades and notional amount, the clearing member defaulted upon; and
(D) The amount of the financial obligation.
(ix)
Change in ownership or corporate or organizational structure
—(A)
Reporting requirement.
A derivatives clearing organization shall report to the Commission any anticipated change in the ownership or corporate or organizational structure of the derivatives clearing organization or its parent(s) that would:
(
1
) Result in at least a 10 percent change of ownership of the derivatives clearing organization or a change to the entity or person holding a controlling interest in the derivatives clearing organization, whether through an increase in direct ownership or voting interest in the derivatives clearing organization or in a direct or indirect corporate parent entity of the derivatives clearing organization;
(
2
) Create a new subsidiary or eliminate a current subsidiary of the derivatives clearing organization; or
(
3
) Result in the transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the derivatives clearing organization to another legal entity.
(B)
Required information.
The report shall include: A chart outlining the new ownership or corporate or organizational structure; a brief description of the purpose and impact of the change; and any relevant agreements effecting the change and corporate documents such as articles of incorporation and bylaws.
(C)
Time of report.
The report shall be submitted to the Commission no later than three months prior to the anticipated change, provided that the derivatives clearing organization may report the anticipated change to the Commission later than three months prior to the anticipated change if the derivatives clearing organization does not know and reasonably could not have known of the anticipated change three months prior to the anticipated change. In such event, the derivatives clearing organization shall immediately report such change to the Commission as soon as it knows of such change.
(D)
Confirmation of change report.
The derivatives clearing organization shall report to the Commission the consummation of the change no later than two business days following the effective date of the change.
(x)
Change in key personnel.
A derivatives clearing organization shall report to the Commission no later than two business days following the departure or addition of persons who are key personnel as defined in § 39.2. The report shall include, as applicable, the name and contact information of the person who will assume the duties of the position permanently or the person who will assume the duties on a temporary basis until a permanent replacement fills the position.
(xi)
Change in legal name.
A derivatives clearing organization shall report to the Commission no later than two business days following a legal name change of the derivatives clearing organization.
(xii)
Change in credit facility funding arrangement.
A derivatives clearing organization shall report to the Commission no later than one business day after the derivatives clearing organization enters into, terminates, or changes a credit facility funding arrangement, or is notified that such arrangement has changed, including but not limited to a change in lender, change in the size of the facility, change in expiration date, or any other material changes or conditions.
(xiii)
Change in liquidity funding arrangement.
A derivatives clearing organization shall report to the Commission no later than one business day after the derivatives clearing organization enters into, terminates, or changes a liquidity funding arrangement, or is notified that such arrangement has changed, including but not limited to a change in provider, change in the size of the arrangement, change in expiration date, or any other material changes or conditions.
(xiv)
Change in settlement bank arrangements.
A derivatives clearing organization shall report to the Commission no later than three business days after the derivatives clearing organization enters into a new relationship with, or terminates a relationship with, any settlement bank used by the derivatives clearing organization or approved for use by the derivatives clearing organization's clearing members.
(xv)
Issues with credit facility funding arrangements, liquidity funding arrangements, custodian banks, or settlement banks.
A derivatives clearing organization shall report to the Commission no later than one business day after it becomes aware of any material issues or concerns regarding the performance, stability, liquidity, or financial resources of any credit facility funding arrangement, liquidity funding arrangement, custodian bank, or settlement bank used by the derivatives clearing organization or approved for use by the derivatives clearing organization's clearing members.
(xvi)
Sanctions against a clearing member.
A derivatives clearing organization shall provide notice to the Commission no later than two business days after the derivatives clearing organization imposes sanctions against a clearing member.
(xvii)
Financial condition and events.
A derivatives clearing organization shall provide to the Commission immediate notice after the derivatives clearing organization knows or reasonably should have known of:
(A) The institution of any legal proceedings which may have a material adverse financial impact on the derivatives clearing organization;
(B) Any event, circumstance or situation that materially impedes the derivatives clearing organization's ability to comply with this part and is not otherwise required to be reported under this section; or
(C) A material adverse change in the financial condition of any clearing member that is not otherwise required to be reported under this section.
(xviii)
Financial statements material inadequacies.
A derivatives clearing organization shall provide notice to the Commission within 24 hours if the derivatives clearing organization discovers or is notified by an independent public accountant of the existence of any material inadequacy in a financial statement, and within 48 hours after giving such notice provide a written report stating what steps have been and are being taken to correct the material inadequacy.
(xix)
Change in fiscal year.
A derivatives clearing organization shall report to the Commission no later than two business days after any change to the start and end dates of its fiscal year.
(xx)
Change in independent accounting firm.
A derivatives clearing organization shall report to the Commission no later than 15 days after any change in the derivatives clearing organization's independent public accounting firm. The report shall include the date of such change, the name and contact information of the new firm, and the reason for the change.
(xxi)
Major decision of the board of directors.
A derivatives clearing organization shall report to the Commission any major decision of the derivatives clearing organization's board of directors as required by § 39.24(a)(3)(i).
(xxii)
System safeguards.
A derivatives clearing organization shall report to the Commission:
(A) Exceptional events as required by § 39.18(g); or
(B) Planned changes as required by § 39.18(h).
(xxiii)
Margin model issues.
A derivatives clearing organization shall report to the Commission no later than one business day after any issue occurs with a DCO's margin model, including margin models for cross-margined portfolios, that materially affects the DCO's ability to calculate or collect initial margin or variation margin.
(xxiv)
Recovery and wind-down plans.
A derivatives clearing organization that is required to maintain recovery and wind-down plans pursuant to § 39.39(b) shall submit its plans to the Commission no later than the date on which the derivatives clearing organization is required to have the plans. A derivatives clearing organization that is not required to maintain recovery and wind-down plans pursuant to § 39.39(b), but which nonetheless maintains such plans, may choose to submit its plans to the Commission. A derivatives clearing organization that has submitted its recovery and wind-down plans to the Commission shall, upon making any revisions to the plans, submit the revised plans to the Commission along with a description of the changes and the reason for those changes.
(xxv)
Updates to responses to the Disclosure Framework for Financial Market Infrastructures.
A systemically important derivatives clearing organization or a subpart C derivatives clearing organization that updates its responses to the Disclosure Framework for Financial Market Infrastructures published by the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems and the Board of the International Organization of Securities Commissions pursuant to § 39.37(b)(1) must provide to the Commission, within ten business days after such update, a copy of the text of the responses that shows all deletions and additions made to the immediately preceding version of the responses, as required by § 39.37(b)(2).
(5)
Requested reporting.
A derivatives clearing organization shall provide upon request by the Commission and within the time specified in the request:
(i) Any information related to its business as a clearing organization, including information relating to trade and clearing details.
(ii) A written demonstration, containing supporting data, information and documents, that the derivatives clearing organization is in compliance with one or more core principles and relevant provisions of this part.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 4858, Jan. 27, 2020; 88 FR 53683, Aug. 8, 2023]
§ 39.20
Recordkeeping.
(a)
Requirement to maintain information.
A derivatives clearing organization shall maintain records of all activities related to its business as a derivatives clearing organization. Such records shall include, but are not limited to, records of:
(1) All cleared transactions, including swaps;
(2) All information necessary to record allocation of bunched orders for cleared swaps;
(3) All information required to be created, generated, or reported under this part 39, including but not limited to the results of and methodology used for all tests, reviews, and calculations in connection with setting and evaluating margin levels, determining the value and adequacy of financial resources, and establishing settlement prices;
(4) All rules and procedures required to be submitted pursuant to this part 39 and part 40 of this chapter, including all proposed changes in rules, procedures or operations subject to § 40.10 of this chapter; and
(5) Any data or documentation required by the Commission or by the derivatives clearing organization to be submitted to the derivatives clearing organization by its clearing members, or by any other person in connection with the derivatives clearing organization's clearing and settlement activities.
(b)
Form and manner of maintaining information
—(1)
General.
The records required to be maintained by this chapter shall be maintained in accordance with the provisions of § 1.31 of this chapter, for a period of not less than 5 years, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2)
Exception for swap data.
A derivatives clearing organization that clears swaps must maintain swap data in accordance with the requirements of part 45 of this chapter.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 4860, Jan. 27, 2020]
§ 39.21
Public information.
(a)
General.
A derivatives clearing organization shall provide to market participants sufficient information to enable the market participants to identify and evaluate accurately the risks and costs associated with using the services of the derivatives clearing organization. In furtherance of the objective in this paragraph (a), a derivatives clearing organization shall have clear and comprehensive rules and procedures.
(b)
Availability of information.
A derivatives clearing organization shall make information concerning the rules and the operating and default procedures governing the clearing and settlement systems of the derivatives clearing organization available to market participants.
(c)
Public disclosure.
A derivatives clearing organization shall make the following information readily available to the general public, in a timely manner, by posting such information on the derivatives clearing organization's website, unless otherwise permitted by the Commission:
(1) The terms and conditions of each contract, agreement, and transaction cleared and settled by the derivatives clearing organization;
(2) Each clearing and other fee that the derivatives clearing organization charges its clearing members;
(3) Information concerning its margin-setting methodology, except that a derivatives clearing organization that clears only fully collateralized positions instead may disclose that it does not employ a margin-setting methodology because it clears only fully collateralized positions;
(4) The size and composition of the financial resource package available in the event of a clearing member default, updated as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter or upon Commission request and posted as promptly as practicable after submission of the report to the Commission under § 39.11(f)(1)(i)(A), except that a derivatives clearing organization that clears only fully collateralized positions instead may disclose that it does not maintain a financial resource package to be used in the event of a clearing member default because it clears only fully collateralized positions;
(5) Daily settlement prices, volume, and open interest for each contract, agreement, or transaction cleared or settled by the derivatives clearing organization, posted no later than the business day following the day to which the information pertains;
(6) The derivatives clearing organization's rulebook, including rules and procedures for defaults in accordance with § 39.16;
(7) A current list of all clearing members, except that a derivatives clearing organization may omit any clearing member that clears only fully collateralized positions and is not a futures commission merchant;
(8) A list of all swaps that the derivatives clearing organization will accept for clearing that identifies which swaps on the list are required to be cleared, in accordance with § 50.3(a) of this chapter; and
(9) Any other information that is relevant to participation in the clearing and settlement activities of the derivatives clearing organization.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 4861, Jan. 27, 2020; 88 FR 53684, Aug. 8, 2023]
§ 39.22
Information sharing.
A derivatives clearing organization shall enter into, and abide by the terms of, each appropriate and applicable domestic and international information-sharing agreement, and shall use relevant information obtained from each such agreement in carrying out the risk management program of the derivatives clearing organization.
[85 FR 4861, Jan. 27, 2020]
§ 39.23
Antitrust considerations.
Unless necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of the Act, a derivatives clearing organization shall not adopt any rule or take any action
that results in any unreasonable restraint of trade, or impose any material anticompetitive burden.
§ 39.24
Governance.
(a)
General.
(1) A derivatives clearing organization shall have governance arrangements that:
(i) Are written;
(ii) Are clear and transparent;
(iii) Place a high priority on the safety and efficiency of the derivatives clearing organization; and
(iv) Explicitly support the stability of the broader financial system and other relevant public interest considerations of clearing members, customers of clearing members, and other relevant stakeholders.
(2) The board of directors shall make certain that the derivatives clearing organization's design, rules, overall strategy, and major decisions appropriately reflect the legitimate interests of clearing members, customers of clearing members, and other relevant stakeholders.
(3) To the extent consistent with other statutory and regulatory requirements on confidentiality and disclosure:
(i) Major decisions of the board of directors shall be clearly disclosed to clearing members, other relevant stakeholders, and to the Commission; and
(ii) Major decisions of the board of directors having a broad market impact shall be clearly disclosed to the public.
(b)
Governance arrangement requirements.
A derivatives clearing organization shall have governance arrangements that:
(1) Are clear and documented;
(2) To an extent consistent with other statutory and regulatory requirements on confidentiality and disclosure, are disclosed, as appropriate, to the Commission, other relevant authorities, clearing members, customers of clearing members, owners of the derivatives clearing organization, and to the public;
(3) Describe the structure pursuant to which the board of directors, committees, and management operate;
(4) Include clear and direct lines of responsibility and accountability;
(5) Clearly specify the roles and responsibilities of the board of directors and its committees, including the establishment of a clear and documented risk management framework;
(6) Clearly specify the roles and responsibilities of management;
(7) Describe procedures pursuant to which the board of directors oversees the chief risk officer, risk management committee, and material risk decisions;
(8) Provide risk management and internal control personnel with sufficient independence, authority, resources, and access to the board of directors so that the operations of the derivatives clearing organization are consistent with the risk management framework established by the board of directors;
(9) Assign responsibility and accountability for risk decisions, including in crises and emergencies;
(10) Assign responsibility for implementing the:
(i) Default rules and procedures required by §§ 39.16 and 39.35, as applicable;
(ii) System safeguard rules and procedures required by §§ 39.18 and 39.34, as applicable; and
(iii) Recovery and wind-down plans required by § 39.39, as applicable;
(11) Establish one or more risk management committees and require the board of directors to consult with, and consider and respond to input from, the risk management committee(s) on all matters that could materially affect the risk profile of the derivatives clearing organization, including any material change to the derivatives clearing organization's margin model, default procedures, participation requirements, and risk monitoring practices, as well as the clearing of new products that could materially affect the risk profile of the derivatives clearing organization. A derivatives clearing organization shall maintain written policies and procedures to make certain that:
(i) The risk management committee consultation process is described in detail, and includes requirements for the derivatives clearing organization to document the board's consideration of and response to risk management committee input and create and maintain
minutes of each risk management committee meeting;
(ii) A risk management committee includes at least two clearing member representatives and, if applicable, at least two representatives of customers of clearing members; and
(iii) Membership of a risk management committee is rotated on a regular basis; and
(12) Establish one or more market participant risk advisory working groups as a forum to seek risk-based input from a broad array of market participants, such that a diverse cross-section of the derivatives clearing organization's clearing members and customers of clearing members are represented, regarding all matters that could materially affect the risk profile of the derivatives clearing organization. A derivatives clearing organization shall maintain written policies and procedures related to the formation and role of each risk advisory working group, and include requirements for the derivatives clearing organization to document and provide to the risk management committee, at a minimum, a summary of the topics discussed and the main points raised during each meeting of the risk advisory working group. Each market participant risk advisory working group shall convene at least two times per year.
(c)
Fitness standards.
(1) A derivatives clearing organization shall establish and enforce appropriate fitness standards for:
(i) Directors;
(ii) Members of any disciplinary committee;
(iii) Members of the derivatives clearing organization;
(iv) Members of risk management committee(s);
(v) Any other individual or entity with direct access to the settlement or clearing activities of the derivatives clearing organization; and
(vi) Any other party affiliated with any individual or entity described in this paragraph.
(2) A derivatives clearing organization shall maintain policies to make certain that:
(i) The board of directors consists of suitable individuals having appropriate skills and incentives;
(ii) The performance of the board of directors and the performance of individual directors is reviewed on a regular basis; and
(iii) Managers have the appropriate experience, skills, and integrity necessary to discharge operational and risk management responsibilities.
(3) A derivatives clearing organization shall maintain policies designed to enable members of risk management committee(s) to provide informed opinions in the form of risk-based input on all matters presented to the risk management committee for consideration, and perform their duties in a manner that supports the safety and efficiency of the derivatives clearing organization and the stability of the broader financial system.
(d)
Fully collateralized positions.
A derivatives clearing organization may satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (b)(11), (b)(12), (c)(1)(iv), and (c)(3) of this section by having rules that permit it to clear only fully collateralized positions.
[85 FR 4861, Jan. 27, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 44690, July 13, 2023]
§ 39.25
Conflicts of interest.
A derivatives clearing organization shall:
(a) Establish and enforce rules to minimize conflicts of interest in the decision-making process of the derivatives clearing organization;
(b) Establish a process for resolving such conflicts of interest; and
(c) Have procedures for identifying, addressing, and managing conflicts of interest involving members of the board of directors.
[85 FR 4862, Jan. 27, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 53684, Aug. 8, 2023]
§ 39.26
Composition of governing boards.
A derivatives clearing organization shall ensure that the composition of the governing board or board-level committee of the derivatives clearing organization includes market participants and individuals who are not executives, officers, or employees of the derivatives clearing organization or an affiliate thereof.
[85 FR 4862, Jan. 27, 2020]
§ 39.27
Legal risk considerations.
(a)
Legal authorization.
A derivatives clearing organization shall be duly organized, legally authorized to conduct business, and remain in good standing at all times in the relevant jurisdictions. If the derivatives clearing organization provides clearing services outside the United States, it shall be duly organized to conduct business and remain in good standing at all times in the relevant jurisdictions, and be authorized by the appropriate foreign licensing authority.
(b)
Legal framework.
A derivatives clearing organization shall operate pursuant to a well-founded, transparent, and enforceable legal framework that addresses each aspect of the activities of the derivatives clearing organization. As applicable, the framework shall provide for:
(1) The derivatives clearing organization to act as a counterparty, including novation;
(2) Netting arrangements;
(3) The derivatives clearing organization's interest in collateral;
(4) The steps that a derivatives clearing organization would take to address a default of a clearing member, including but not limited to, the unimpeded ability to liquidate collateral and close out or transfer positions in a timely manner;
(5) Finality of settlement and funds transfers that are irrevocable and unconditional when effected (no later than when a derivatives clearing organization's accounts are debited and credited); and
(6) Other significant aspects of the derivatives clearing organization's operations, risk management procedures, and related requirements.
(c)
Conflict of laws.
If a derivatives clearing organization provides clearing services outside the United States:
(1) The derivatives clearing organization shall identify and address any material conflict of law issues. The derivatives clearing organization's contractual agreements shall specify a choice of law.
(2) The derivatives clearing organization shall be able to demonstrate the enforceability of its choice of law in relevant jurisdictions and that its rules, procedures, and contracts are enforceable in all relevant jurisdictions.
(3) The derivatives clearing organization shall ensure on an ongoing basis that the memorandum required in paragraph (b) of Exhibit R to appendix A to this part is accurate and up to date and shall submit an updated memorandum to the Commission promptly following all material changes to the analysis or content contained in the memorandum.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 4862, Jan. 27, 2020]
§§ 39.28-39.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Provisions Applicable to Systemically Important Derivatives Clearing Organizations and Derivatives Clearing Organizations That Elect To Be Subject to the Provisions of This Subpart

# Source:
78 FR 72514, Dec. 2, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 39.30
Scope.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to each of the following: a subpart C derivatives clearing organization, a systemically important derivatives clearing organization, and any derivatives clearing organization, as defined under section 1a(15) of the Act and § 1.3 of this chapter, seeking to become a subpart C derivatives clearing organization pursuant to § 39.31.
(b) A systemically important derivatives clearing organization is subject to the provisions of subparts A and B of this part in addition to the provisions of this subpart.
(c) A subpart C derivatives clearing organization is subject to the provisions of subparts A and B of this part in addition to the provisions of this subpart except for §§ 39.41 and 39.42.
[78 FR 72514, Dec. 2, 2013, as amended at 83 FR 7996, Feb. 23, 2018]
§ 39.31
Election to become subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(a)
Election eligibility.
(1) A derivatives clearing organization that is registered with the Commission and that
is not a systemically important derivatives clearing organization may elect to become a subpart C derivatives clearing organization subject to the provisions of this subpart, using the procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) An applicant for registration as a derivatives clearing organization pursuant to § 39.3 may elect to become a subpart C derivatives clearing organization subject to the provisions of this subpart as part of its application for registration using the procedures set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Election and withdrawal procedures applicable to registered derivatives clearing organizations
—(1)
Election.
A derivatives clearing organization that is registered with the Commission and that is not a systemically important derivatives clearing organization may request that the Commission accept its election to become a subpart C derivatives clearing organization by filing with the Commission a completed Subpart C Election Form. The Subpart C Election Form shall include the election and all certifications, disclosures and exhibits, as provided in appendix B to this part and any amendments or supplements thereto filed with the Commission pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2)
Submission of supplemental information.
The filing of a Subpart C Election Form does not create a presumption that the Subpart C Election Form is materially complete or that supplemental information will not be required. The Commission, at any time prior to the effective date, as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, may request that the derivatives clearing organization submit supplemental information in order for the Commission to process the Subpart C Election Form, and the derivatives clearing organization shall file such supplemental information with the Commission.
(3)
Amendments.
A derivatives clearing organization shall promptly amend its Subpart C Election Form if it discovers a material omission or error in, or if there is a material change in, the information provided to the Commission in the Subpart C Election Form or other information provided in connection with the Subpart C Election Form.
(4)
Effective date.
A derivatives clearing organization's election to become a subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall become effective:
(i) Upon the later of the following, provided the Commission has neither stayed nor denied such election as set forth in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(A) The effective date specified by the derivatives clearing organization in its Subpart C Election Form; or
(B) Ten business days after the derivatives clearing organization files its Subpart C Election Form with the Commission;
(ii) Or upon the effective date set forth in written notification from the Commission that it shall permit the election to take effect after a stay issued pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(5)
Stay or denial of election.
Prior to the effective date set forth in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the Commission may stay or deny a derivatives clearing organization's election to become a subpart C derivatives clearing organization by issuing a written notification thereof to the derivatives clearing organization.
(6)
Commission acknowledgement.
The Commission may acknowledge, in writing, that it has received a Subpart C Election Form filed by a derivatives clearing organization and that it has permitted the derivatives clearing organization's election to become subject to the provisions of this subpart to take effect, and the effective date of such election.
(7)
Withdrawal of election.
A derivatives clearing organization that has filed a Subpart C Election Form may withdraw an election to become subject to the provisions of this subpart at any time prior to the date that the election is permitted to take effect by filing with the Commission a notice of the withdrawal of election.
(c)
Election and withdrawal procedures applicable to applicants for registration as derivatives clearing organization
—(1)
Election.
An applicant for registration as a derivatives clearing organization that requests an election to become subject to the provisions of this subpart may make that request by attaching a completed Subpart C Election Form to the Form DCO that it files
pursuant to § 39.3. The Subpart C Election Form shall include the election and all certifications, disclosures and exhibits, as provided in appendix B of this part, and any amendments or supplements thereto filed with the Commission pursuant to paragraphs (c)(3) or (4) of this section.
(2)
Election review and effective date.
The Commission shall review the applicant's Subpart C Election Form as part of the Commission's review of its application for registration pursuant to § 39.3(a). The Commission may permit the applicant's election to take effect at the time it approves the applicant's application for registration by providing written notice thereof to the applicant. The Commission shall not approve any application for registration filed pursuant to § 39.3(a) for which a Subpart C Election Form is pending, if the Commission determines that the applicant's election to become subject to this subpart should not become effective because the applicant has not demonstrated its ability to comply with the applicable provisions of this subpart.
(3)
Submission of supplemental information.
The filing of a Subpart C Election Form does not create a presumption that the Subpart C Election Form is materially complete or that supplemental information will not be required. At any time during the Commission's review of the Subpart C Election Form, the Commission may request that the applicant submit supplemental information in order for the Commission to process the Subpart C Election Form and the applicant shall file such supplemental information with the Commission.
(4)
Amendments.
An applicant for registration as a derivatives clearing organization shall promptly amend its Subpart C Election Form if it discovers a material omission or error in, or if there is a material change in, the information provided to the Commission in the Subpart C Election Form or other information provided in connection with the Subpart C Election Form.
(5)
Withdrawal of election.
An applicant for registration as a derivatives clearing organization may withdraw an election to become subject to the provisions of this subpart by filing with the Commission a notice of the withdrawal of its Subpart C Election Form at any time prior to the date that the Commission approves its application for registration as a derivatives clearing organization. The applicant may withdraw its Subpart C Election Form without withdrawing its Form DCO.
(d)
Public information.
The following portions of the Subpart C Election Form will be public: The Elections and Certifications and Disclosures in the Subpart C Election Form, the rules of the derivatives clearing organization, the regulatory compliance chart, and any other portion of the Subpart C Election Form not covered by a request for confidential treatment complying with the requirements of § 145.9 of this chapter.
(e)
Rescission of election.
(1)
Notice of intent to rescind.
A subpart C derivatives clearing organization may rescind its election to be subject to the provisions of this subpart and terminate its status as a subpart C derivatives clearing organization by filing with the Commission a notice of its intent to rescind such election. The notice of intent to rescind the election shall include:
(i) The effective date of the rescission; and
(ii) A certification signed by the relevant duly authorized representative of the subpart C derivatives clearing organization, as specified in paragraph three of the General Instructions to the Subpart C Election Form, stating that the subpart C derivatives clearing organization:
(A) Has provided the notice to its clearing members required by paragraph (e)(3)(i)(A) of this section;
(B) Will provide the notice to its clearing members required by paragraph (e)(3)(i)(B) of this section;
(C) Has provided the notice to the general public required by paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(A) of this section;
(D) Will provide notice to the general public required by paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(B) of this section; and
(E) Has removed all references to the organization as a subpart C derivatives clearing organization and a qualifying central counterparty on its Web site
and in all other material that it provides to its clearing members and customers, other market participants or members of the public, as required by paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(C) of this section.
(2)
Effective date.
The rescission of the election to be subject to the provisions of this subpart shall become effective on the date set forth in the notice of intent to rescind the election filed by the subpart C derivatives clearing organization pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, provided that the rescission may become effective no earlier than 180 days after the notice of intent to rescind the election is filed with the Commission. The subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall continue to comply with all of the provisions of this subpart until such effective date.
(3)
Additional notice requirements.
(i) A subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall provide the following notices, at the following times, to each of its clearing members and shall have rules in place requiring each of its clearing members to provide the following notices to each of the clearing member's customers:
(A) No later than the filing of a notice of its intent to rescind its election to be subject to the provisions of this subpart, written notice that it intends to file such notice with the Commission and the effective date thereof; and
(B) On the effective date of the rescission of its election to be subject to the provisions of this subpart, written notice that the rescission has become effective.
(ii) A subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall:
(A) No later than the filing of a notice of its intent to rescind its election to be subject to the provisions of this subpart, provide notice to the general public, displayed prominently on its Web site, of its intent to rescind its election to be subject to the provisions of this subpart;
(B) On and after the effective date of the rescission of its election to be subject to the provisions of this subpart, provide notice to the general public, displayed prominently on its Web site, that the rescission has become effective; and
(C) Prior to the filing of a notice of its intent to rescind its election to become subject to the provisions of this subpart, remove all references to the derivatives clearing organization's status as a subpart C derivatives clearing organization and a qualifying central counterparty on its Web site and in all other materials that it provides to its clearing members and customers, other market participants, or the general public.
(iii) The employees and representatives of a derivatives clearing organization that has filed a notice of its intent to rescind its election to be subject to the provisions of this subpart shall refrain from referring to the organization as a subpart C derivatives clearing organization and a qualifying central counterparty on and after the date that the notice of intent to rescind the election is filed.
(4)
Effect of rescission.
The rescission of a subpart C derivatives clearing organization's election to be subject to the provisions of this subpart shall not affect the authority of the Commission concerning any activities or events occurring during the time that the derivatives clearing organization maintained its status as a subpart C derivatives clearing organization.
(f)
Loss of designation as a systemically important derivatives clearing organization.
A systemically important derivatives clearing organization whose designation of systemic importance is rescinded by the Financial Stability Oversight Council, shall immediately be deemed to be a subpart C derivatives clearing organization and shall continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart unless such derivatives clearing organization elects to rescind its status as a subpart C derivatives clearing organization in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.
(g) All forms and notices required by this section shall be filed electronically with the Secretary of the Commission in the format and manner specified by the Commission.
§ 39.32
[Reserved]
§ 39.33
Financial resources requirements for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations.
(a)
General rule.
(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of § 39.11(a)(1), each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization that, in either case, is systemically important in multiple jurisdictions or is involved in activities with a more complex risk profile shall maintain financial resources sufficient to enable it to meet its financial obligations to its clearing members notwithstanding a default by the two clearing members creating the largest combined financial exposure to the derivatives clearing organization in extreme but plausible market conditions.
(2) The Commission shall, if it deems appropriate, determine whether a systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization is systemically important in multiple jurisdictions. In determining whether a systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization is systemically important in multiple jurisdictions, the Commission shall consider whether the derivatives clearing organization:
(i) Is a systemically important derivatives clearing organization, as defined by § 39.2; or
(ii) Has been determined to be systemically important by one or more jurisdictions other than the United States pursuant to a designation process that considers whether the foreseeable effects of a failure or disruption of the derivatives clearing organization could threaten the stability of each relevant jurisdiction's financial system.
(3) The Commission shall, if it deems appropriate, determine whether any of the activities of a systemically important derivatives clearing organization or a subpart C derivatives clearing organization, in addition to clearing credit default swaps, credit default futures, and any derivatives that reference either credit default swaps or credit default futures, has a more complex risk profile. In determining whether an activity has a more complex risk profile, the Commission will consider characteristics such as discrete jump-to-default price changes or high correlations with potential participant defaults as factors supporting (though not necessary for) a finding of a more complex risk profile.
(4) For purposes of this section, if a clearing member controls another clearing member or is under common control with another clearing member, such affiliated clearing members shall be deemed to be a single clearing member.
(b)
Valuation of financial resources.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 39.11(d)(2), assessments for additional guaranty fund contributions (
i.e.,
guaranty fund contributions that are not pre-funded) shall not be included in calculating the financial resources available to meet a systemically important derivatives clearing organization's or subpart C derivatives clearing organization's obligations under paragraph (a) of this section or § 39.11(a)(1).
(c)
Liquidity resources
—(1)
Minimum amount of liquidity resources.
(i) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 39.11(e)(1)(ii), each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall maintain eligible liquidity resources, in all relevant currencies, that, at a minimum, will enable it to meet its intraday, same-day, and multiday obligations to perform settlements, as defined in § 39.14(a)(1), with a high degree of confidence under a wide range of stress scenarios that should include, but not be limited to, a default by the clearing member creating the largest aggregate liquidity obligation for the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization in extreme but plausible market conditions.
(ii) A systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization that is subject to § 39.33(a)(1) shall
consider
maintaining eligible liquidity resources that, at a minimum, will enable it to meet its intraday, same-day, and multiday obligations to perform
settlements, as defined in § 39.14(a)(1), with a high degree of confidence under a wide range of stress scenarios that should include, but not be limited to, a default of the two clearing members creating the largest aggregate liquidity obligation for the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization in extreme but plausible market conditions.
(2)
Satisfaction of settlement in all relevant currencies.
Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient to satisfy the obligations required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section in all relevant currencies for which the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization has obligations to perform settlements, as defined in § 39.14(a)(1), to its clearing members.
(3)
Qualifying liquidity resources.
(i) Only the following liquidity resources are eligible for the purpose of meeting the requirement of paragraph (c)(1) of this section:
(A) Cash in the currency of the requisite obligations, held either at the central bank of issue or at a creditworthy commercial bank;
(B) Committed lines of credit;
(C) Committed foreign exchange swaps;
(D) Committed repurchase agreements; or
(E) (
1
) Highly marketable collateral, including high quality, liquid, general obligations of a sovereign nation.
(
2
) The assets described in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(E)(
1
) of this section must be readily available and convertible into cash pursuant to prearranged and highly reliable funding arrangements, even in extreme but plausible market conditions.
(ii) With respect to the arrangements described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization must take appropriate steps to verify that such arrangements do not include material adverse change conditions and are enforceable, and will be highly reliable, in extreme but plausible market conditions.
(4)
Additional liquidity resources.
If a systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization maintains financial resources in addition to those required to satisfy paragraph (c)(1) of this section, then those resources should be in the form of assets that are likely to be saleable with proceeds available promptly or acceptable as collateral for lines of credit, swaps, or repurchase agreements on an
ad hoc
basis. A systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization should consider maintaining collateral with low credit, liquidity, and market risks that is typically accepted by a central bank of issue for any currency in which it may have settlement obligations, but shall not assume the availability of emergency central bank credit as a part of its liquidity plan.
(d)
Liquidity providers.
(1) For the purposes of this paragraph, a liquidity provider means:
(i) A depository institution, a U.S. branch or agency of a foreign banking organization, a trust company, or a syndicate of depository institutions, U.S. branches or agencies of foreign banking organizations, or trust companies providing a line of credit, foreign exchange swap facility or repurchase facility to a systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization;
(ii) Any other counterparty relied upon by a systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization to meet its minimum liquidity resources requirement under paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) In fulfilling its obligations under paragraph (c) of this section, each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall undertake due diligence to confirm that each of its liquidity providers, whether or not such liquidity provider is a clearing member, has:
(i) Sufficient information to understand and manage the liquidity provider's liquidity risks; and
(ii) The capacity to perform as required under its commitments to provide liquidity to the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization.
(3) Where relevant to a liquidity provider's ability reliably to perform its commitments with respect to a particular currency, the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization may take into account the liquidity provider's access to the central bank of issue of that currency.
(4) Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall regularly test its procedures for accessing its liquidity resources under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, including testing its arrangements under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) and its relevant liquidity provider(s) under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(5) A systemically important derivatives clearing organization with access to accounts and services at a Federal Reserve Bank, pursuant to section 806(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act, 12 U.S.C. 5465(a), shall use such accounts and services where practical.
(e)
Documentation of financial resources and liquidity resources.
Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall document its supporting rationale for, and have appropriate governance arrangements relating to, the amount of total financial resources it maintains pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section and the amount of total liquidity resources it maintains pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 4862, Jan. 27, 2020]
§ 39.34
System safeguards for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations.
(a) Notwithstanding § 39.18(c)(2), the business continuity and disaster recovery plan described in § 39.18(c)(1) for each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall have the objective of enabling, and the physical, technological, and personnel resources described in § 39.18(c)(1) shall be sufficient to enable, the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization to recover its operations and resume daily processing, clearing, and settlement no later than two hours following the disruption, for any disruption including a wide-scale disruption.
(b) To facilitate its ability to achieve the recovery time objective specified in paragraph (a) of this section in the event of a wide-scale disruption, each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization must maintain a degree of geographic dispersal of physical, technological and personnel resources consistent with the following for each activity necessary for the daily processing, clearing, and settlement of existing and new contracts:
(1) Physical and technological resources (including a secondary site), sufficient to enable the entity to meet the recovery time objective after interruption of normal clearing by a wide-scale disruption, must be located outside the relevant area of the physical and technological resources the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization normally relies upon to conduct that activity, and must not rely on the same critical transportation, telecommunications, power, water, or other critical infrastructure components the entity normally relies upon for such activities;
(2) Personnel, who live and work outside that relevant area, sufficient to enable the entity to meet the recovery time objective after interruption of normal clearing by a wide-scale disruption affecting the relevant area in which the personnel the entity normally relies upon to engage in such activities are located;
(3) The provisions of § 39.18(d) shall apply to these resource requirements.
(c) Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization must conduct regular, periodic tests of its business continuity and disaster recovery plans and resources and
its capacity to achieve the required recovery time objective in the event of a wide-scale disruption. The provisions of § 39.18(e) shall apply to such testing.
(d) The Commission may, upon request, grant an entity, which has been designated as a systemically important derivatives clearing organization or that has elected to become subject to subpart C, up to one year to comply with any provision of this section.
[78 FR 72514, Dec. 2, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 64339, Sept. 19, 2016]
§ 39.35
Default rules and procedures for uncovered credit losses or liquidity shortfalls (recovery) for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations.
(a)
Allocation of uncovered credit losses.
Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall adopt explicit rules and procedures that address fully any loss arising from any individual or combined default relating to any clearing members' obligations to the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization. Such rules and procedures shall address how the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization would:
(1) Allocate losses exceeding the financial resources available to the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization;
(2) Repay any funds it may borrow; and
(3) Replenish any financial resources it may employ during such a stress event, so that the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization can continue to operate in a safe and sound manner.
(b)
Allocation of uncovered liquidity shortfalls.
(1) Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall establish rules and/or procedures that enable it promptly to meet all of its settlement obligations, on a same day and, as appropriate, intraday and multiday basis, in the context of the occurrence of either or both of the following scenarios:
(i) An individual or combined default involving one or more clearing members' obligations to the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization; or
(ii) A liquidity shortfall exceeding the financial resources of the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization.
(2) The rules and procedures described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall:
(i) Enable the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization promptly to meet its payment obligations in all relevant currencies;
(ii) Be designed to enable the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization to avoid unwinding, revoking, or delaying the same-day settlement of payment obligations; and
(iii) Address the systemically important derivatives clearing organization's or subpart C derivatives clearing organization's process to replenish any liquidity resources it may employ during a stress event so that it can continue to operate in a safe and sound manner.
§ 39.36
Risk management for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations.
(a)
Stress tests of financial resources.
In addition to conducting stress tests pursuant to § 39.13(h)(3), each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall conduct stress tests of its financial resources in accordance with the following standards and practices:
(1) Perform, on a daily basis, stress testing of its financial resources using predetermined parameters and assumptions;
(2) Perform comprehensive analyses of stress testing scenarios and underlying parameters to ascertain their appropriateness for determining the systemically important derivatives clearing organization's or subpart C derivatives clearing organization's required level of financial resources in current and evolving market conditions;
(3) Perform the analyses required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section at least monthly and when products cleared or markets served display high volatility or become less liquid, when the size or concentration of positions held by clearing members increases significantly, or as otherwise appropriate, evaluate the stress testing scenarios, models, and underlying parameters more frequently than once a month;
(4) For the analyses required by paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, include a range of relevant stress scenarios, in terms of both defaulting clearing members' positions and possible price changes in liquidation periods. The scenarios considered shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Relevant peak historic price volatilities;
(ii) Shifts in other market factors including, as appropriate, price determinants and yield curves;
(iii) Multiple defaults over various time horizons;
(iv) Simultaneous pressures in funding and asset markets; and
(v) A range of forward-looking stress scenarios in a variety of extreme but plausible market conditions.
(5) Establish procedures for:
(i) Reporting stress test results to its risk management committee or board of directors, as applicable; and
(ii) Using the results to assess the adequacy of, and to adjust, its total amount of financial resources; and
(6) Use the results of stress tests to support compliance with the minimum financial resources requirement set forth in § 39.11(a)(1) or § 39.33(a), as applicable.
(b)
Sensitivity analysis of margin model.
(1) Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall, at least monthly and more frequently as appropriate, conduct a sensitivity analysis of its margin models to analyze and monitor model performance and overall margin coverage. Sensitivity analysis shall be conducted on both actual and hypothetical positions.
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph (b), a sensitivity analysis of a margin model includes:
(i) Reviewing a wide range of parameter settings and assumptions that reflect possible market conditions in order to understand how the level of margin coverage might be affected by highly stressed market conditions. The range of parameters and assumptions should capture a variety of historical and hypothetical conditions, including the most volatile periods that have been experienced by the markets served by the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization and extreme changes in the correlations between prices. The parameters and assumptions should be appropriate in light of the specific characteristics, considered on a current basis, of particular products and portfolios cleared.
(ii) Testing of the ability of the models or model components to react appropriately using actual or hypothetical datasets and assessing the impact of different model parameter settings.
(iii) Evaluating potential losses in clearing members' proprietary positions and, where appropriate, customer positions.
(3) A systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization involved in activities with a more complex risk profile shall take into consideration parameter settings that reflect the potential impact of the simultaneous default of clearing members and, where applicable, the underlying credit instruments.
(c)
Stress tests of liquidity resources.
Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall conduct stress tests of its liquidity resources in accordance with the following standards and practices:
(1) Perform, on a daily basis, stress testing of its liquidity resources using
predetermined parameters and assumptions;
(2) Perform comprehensive analyses of stress testing scenarios and underlying parameters to ascertain their appropriateness for determining the systemically important derivatives clearing organization's or subpart C derivatives clearing organization's required level of liquidity resources in current and evolving market conditions;
(3) Perform the analyses required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section at least monthly and when products cleared or markets served display high volatility or become less liquid, when the size or concentration of positions held by clearing members increases significantly, or as otherwise appropriate, evaluate its stress testing scenarios, models, and underlying parameters more frequently than once a month;
(4) For the analyses required by paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, include a range of relevant stress scenarios, in terms of both defaulting clearing members' positions and possible price changes in liquidation periods. The scenarios considered shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Relevant peak historic price volatilities;
(ii) Shifts in other market factors including, as appropriate, price determinants and yield curves;
(iii) Multiple defaults over various time horizons;
(iv) Simultaneous pressures in funding and asset markets; and
(v) A range of forward-looking stress scenarios in a variety of extreme but plausible market conditions.
(5) For the scenarios enumerated in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, consider the following:
(i) All entities that might pose material liquidity risks to the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization, including settlement banks, permitted depositories, liquidity providers, and other entities,
(ii) Multiday scenarios as appropriate,
(iii) Inter-linkages between its clearing members and the multiple roles that they may play in the systemically important derivatives clearing organization's or subpart C derivatives clearing organization's risk management; and
(iv) The probability of multiple failures and contagion effect among clearing members.
(6) Establish procedures for:
(i) Reporting stress test results to its risk management committee or board of directors, as applicable; and
(ii) Using the results to assess the adequacy of, and to adjust its total amount of liquidity resources.
(7) Use the results of stress tests to support compliance with the liquidity resources requirement set forth in § 39.33(c).
(d)
Margin model assessment.
Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall conduct, on at least an annual basis (or more frequently if there are material relevant market developments), an assessment of the theoretical and empirical properties of its margin model for all products it clears.
(e)
Independent validation.
Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall perform, on an annual basis, a full validation of its financial risk management model and its liquidity risk management model.
(f)
Custody and investment risk.
Custody and investment arrangements of a systemically important derivatives clearing organization's and subpart C derivatives clearing organization's own funds and assets shall be subject to the same requirements as those specified in § 39.15 for the funds and assets of clearing members, and shall apply to the derivatives clearing organization's own funds and assets to the same extent as if such funds and assets belonged to clearing members.
(g)
Settlement banks.
Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall:
(1) Monitor, manage, and limit its credit and liquidity risks arising from its settlement banks;
(2) Establish, and monitor adherence to, strict criteria for its settlement banks that take account of, among
other things, their regulation and supervision, creditworthiness, capitalization, access to liquidity, and operational reliability; and
(3) Monitor and manage the concentration of credit and liquidity exposures to its settlement banks.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 4862, Jan. 27, 2020]
§ 39.37
Additional disclosure for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations.
In addition to the requirements of § 39.21, each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall:
(a) Complete and publicly disclose its responses to the Disclosure Framework for Financial Market Infrastructures published by the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems and the Board of the International Organization of Securities Commissions;
(b)(1) Review and update its responses disclosed as required by paragraph (a) of this section at least every two years and following material changes to the systemically important derivatives clearing organization's or subpart C derivatives clearing organization's system or the environment in which it operates. A material change to the systemically important derivatives clearing organization's or subpart C derivatives clearing organization's system or the environment in which it operates is a change that would significantly change the accuracy and usefulness of the existing responses; and
(2) Provide notice to the Commission of updates to its responses required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section following material changes no later than ten business days after the updates are made. Such notice shall be accompanied by a copy of the text of the responses that shows all deletions and additions made to the immediately preceding version of the responses;
(c) Publicly disclose relevant basic data on transaction volume and values consistent with the standards set forth in the Public Quantitative Disclosure Standards for Central Counterparties published by the Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures and the International Organization of Securities Commissions;
(d) Publicly disclose rules, policies, and procedures concerning segregation and portability of customers' positions and funds, including whether each of:
(1) Futures customer funds, as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter;
(2) Cleared Swaps Customer Collateral, as defined in § 22.1 of this chapter; or
(3) Foreign futures or foreign options secured amount, as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter is:
(i) Protected on an individual or omnibus basis or
(ii) Subject to any constraints, including any legal or operational constraints that may impair the ability of the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization to segregate or transfer the positions and related collateral of a clearing member's customers.
[78 FR 72514, Dec. 2, 2013, as amended at 83 FR 7996, Feb. 23, 2018; 85 FR 4862, Jan. 27, 2020; 88 FR 53684, Aug. 8, 2023]
§ 39.38
Efficiency for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations.
(a)
General rule.
In order to meet the needs of clearing members and markets, each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization should efficiently and effectively design its:
(1) Clearing and settlement arrangements;
(2) Operating structure and procedures;
(3) Scope of products cleared; and
(4) Use of technology.
(b)
Review of efficiency.
Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization should establish a mechanism to review, on a regular basis, its compliance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Clear goals and objectives.
Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization should
have clearly defined goals and objectives that are measurable and achievable, including in the areas of minimum service levels, risk management expectations, and business priorities.
(d) Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall facilitate efficient payment, clearing and settlement by accommodating internationally accepted communication procedures and standards.
§ 39.39
Recovery and wind-down for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
General business risk
means any potential impairment of a systemically important derivatives clearing organization's or subpart C derivatives clearing organization's financial position, as a business concern, as a consequence of a decline in its revenues or an increase in its expenses, such that expenses exceed revenues and result in a loss that the derivatives clearing organization must charge against capital.
(2)
Wind-down
means the actions of a systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization to effect the permanent cessation or sale or transfer of one or more services.
(3)
Recovery
means the actions of a systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization, consistent with its rules, procedures, and other
ex
-
ante
contractual arrangements, to address any uncovered credit loss, liquidity shortfall, capital inadequacy, or business, operational or other structural weakness, including the replenishment of any depleted pre-funded financial resources and liquidity arrangements, as necessary to maintain the systemically important derivatives clearing organization's or subpart C derivatives clearing organization's viability as a going concern.
(4)
Operational risk
means the risk that deficiencies in information systems or internal processes, human errors, management failures or disruptions from external events will result in the reduction, deterioration, or breakdown of services provided by a systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization.
(5)
Unencumbered liquid financial assets
include cash and highly liquid securities.
(b)
Recovery and wind-down plan.
Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall maintain viable plans for:
(1) Recovery or orderly wind-down, necessitated by uncovered credit losses or liquidity shortfalls; and, separately,
(2) Recovery or orderly wind-down necessitated by general business risk, operational risk, or any other risk that threatens the derivatives clearing organization's viability as a going concern.
(c)(1) In developing the plans specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall identify scenarios that may potentially prevent it from being able to meet its obligations, provide its critical operations and services as a going concern and assess the effectiveness of a full range of options for recovery or orderly wind-down. The plans shall include procedures for informing the Commission, as soon as practicable, when the recovery plan is initiated or wind-down is pending.
(2) A systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall have procedures for providing the Commission and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation with information needed for purposes of resolution planning.
(d)
Financial resources to support the recovery and wind-down plan.
(1) In evaluating the resources available to cover an uncovered credit loss or liquidity shortfall as part of its recovery plans pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization may consider, among other things, assessments of additional resources provided for under its rules
that it reasonably expects to collect from non-defaulting clearing members.
(2) Each systemically important derivatives clearing organization and subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall maintain sufficient unencumbered liquid financial assets, funded by the equity of its owners, to implement its recovery or wind-down plans pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section. In general, the financial resources required by § 39.11(a)(2) may be sufficient, but the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall analyze its particular circumstances and risks and maintain any additional resources that may be necessary to implement the plans. In allocating sufficient financial resources to implement the plans, the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization shall comply with § 39.11(e)(2). The plan shall include evidence and analysis to support the conclusion that the amount considered necessary is, in fact, sufficient to implement the plans.
(3) Resources counted in meeting the requirements of §§ 39.11(a)(1) and 39.33 may not be allocated, in whole or in part, to the recovery plans required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Other resources may be allocated, in whole or in part, to the recovery plans required by either paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section, but not both paragraphs, and only to the extent the use of such resources is not otherwise limited by the Act, Commission regulations, the systemically important derivatives clearing organization's or subpart C derivatives clearing organization's rules, or any contractual arrangements to which the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization is a party.
(e)
Plan for raising additional financial resources.
All systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and subpart C derivatives clearing organizations shall maintain viable plans for raising additional financial resources, including, where appropriate, capital, in a scenario in which the systemically important derivatives clearing organization or subpart C derivatives clearing organization is unable, or virtually unable, to comply with any financial resources requirements set forth in this part. This plan shall be approved by the board of directors and be updated regularly.
(f) The Commission may, upon request, grant an entity, which has been designated as a systemically important derivatives clearing organization or that has elected to become subject to subpart C, up to one year to comply with any provision of this section or of § 39.35.
[76 FR 69430, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 4862, Jan. 27, 2020]
§ 39.40
Consistency with the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures.
This subpart C is intended to establish standards which, together with subparts A and B of this part, are consistent with section 5b(c) of the Act and the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures published by the Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems and the Board of the International Organization of Securities Commissions and should be interpreted in that context.
§ 39.41
Special enforcement authority for systemically important derivatives clearing organizations.
For purposes of enforcing the provisions of Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Act, a systemically important derivatives clearing organization shall be subject to, and the Commission has authority under the provisions of subsections (b) through (n) of section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818) in the same manner and to the same extent as if the systemically important derivatives clearing organization were an insured depository institution and the Commission were the appropriate Federal banking agency for such insured depository institution.
§ 39.42
Advance notice of material risk-related rule changes by systemically important derivatives clearing organizations.
A systemically important derivatives clearing organization shall provide notice to the Commission in advance of
any proposed change to its rules, procedures, or operations that could materially affect the nature or level of risks presented by the systemically important derivatives clearing organization, in accordance with the requirements of § 40.10 of this chapter.
§§ 39.43-39.49
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Provisions Applicable to Derivatives Clearing Organizations Subject to Compliance with Core Principles Through Compliance with Home Country Regulatory Regime

# Source:
85 FR 67187, Oct. 21, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 39.50
Scope.
The provisions of this subpart D apply to any derivatives clearing organization that is registered through the process described in § 39.3(a)(3) of this part or as otherwise provided by order of the Commission.
§ 39.51
Compliance with the core principles through compliance with home country regulatory regime.
(a)
Eligibility.
(1) A derivatives clearing organization shall be eligible for registration for the clearing of swaps subject to compliance with this subpart if:
(i) The Commission determines that compliance by the derivatives clearing organization with its home country regulatory regime constitutes compliance with the core principles set forth in section 5b(c)(2) of the Act;
(ii) The derivatives clearing organization is in good regulatory standing in its home country;
(iii) The Commission determines the derivatives clearing organization does not pose substantial risk to the U.S. financial system; and
(iv) A memorandum of understanding or similar arrangement satisfactory to the Commission is in effect between the Commission and the derivatives clearing organization's home country regulator, pursuant to which, among other things, the home country regulator agrees to provide to the Commission any information that the Commission deems appropriate to evaluate the initial and continued eligibility of the derivatives clearing organization for registration or to review its compliance with any conditions of such registration.
(2) To the extent that the derivatives clearing organization's home country regulatory regime lacks legal requirements that correspond to those core principles less related to risk, the Commission may, in its discretion, grant registration subject to conditions that would address the relevant core principles.
(b)
Conditions.
A derivatives clearing organization subject to compliance with this subpart shall be subject to any conditions the Commission may prescribe including, but not limited to:
(1)
Applicable requirements under the Act and Commission regulations.
The derivatives clearing organization shall comply with: The core principles set forth in section 5b(c)(2) of the Act through its compliance with applicable legal requirements in its home country; and other requirements applicable to derivatives clearing organizations as specified in the derivatives clearing organization's registration order including, but not limited to, section 4d(f) of the Act, parts 1, 22, and 45 of this chapter, subpart A of this part and § 39.15.
(2)
Open access.
The derivatives clearing organization shall have rules with respect to swaps to which one or more of the counterparties is a U.S. person that:
(i) Provide that all swaps with the same terms and conditions, as defined by product specifications established under the derivatives clearing organization's rules, submitted to the derivatives clearing organization for clearing are economically equivalent within the derivatives clearing organization and may be offset with each other within the derivatives clearing organization, to the extent offsetting is permitted by the derivatives clearing organization's rules; and
(ii) Provide that there shall be non-discriminatory clearing of a swap executed bilaterally or on or subject to the rules of an unaffiliated electronic matching platform or trade execution facility.
(3)
Consent to jurisdiction; designation of agent for service of process.
The derivatives clearing organization shall:
(i) Consent to jurisdiction in the United States;
(ii) Designate, authorize, and identify to the Commission, an agent in the United States who shall accept any notice or service of process, pleadings, or other documents, including any summons, complaint, order, subpoena, request for information, or any other written or electronic documentation or correspondence issued by or on behalf of the Commission or the United States Department of Justice to the derivatives clearing organization, in connection with any actions or proceedings brought against, or investigations relating to, the derivatives clearing organization or any of its U.S. clearing members; and
(iii) Promptly inform the Commission of any change in its designated and authorized agent.
(4)
Compliance.
The derivatives clearing organization shall comply, and shall demonstrate compliance as requested by the Commission, with any condition of its registration.
(5)
Inspection of books and records.
The derivatives clearing organization shall make all documents, books, records, reports, and other information related to its operation as a derivatives clearing organization open to inspection and copying by any representative of the Commission; and in response to a request by any representative of the Commission, the derivatives clearing organization shall, promptly and in the form specified, make the requested books and records available and provide them directly to Commission representatives.
(6)
Representation of good regulatory standing.
On an annual basis, within 60 days following the end of its fiscal year, a derivatives clearing organization shall request and the Commission must receive from a home country regulator a written representation that the derivatives clearing organization is in good regulatory standing.
(7)
Other conditions.
The Commission may condition compliance with this subpart on any other facts and circumstances it deems relevant.
(c)
General reporting requirements.
(1) A derivatives clearing organization shall provide to the Commission the information specified in this paragraph and any other information that the Commission deems necessary, including, but not limited to, information for the purpose of the Commission evaluating the continued eligibility of the derivatives clearing organization for compliance with this subpart, reviewing compliance by the derivatives clearing organization with any conditions of its registration, or conducting oversight of U.S. clearing members, and the swaps that are cleared by such persons through the derivatives clearing organization. Information provided to the Commission under this paragraph shall be submitted in accordance with § 39.19(b).
(2) Each derivatives clearing organization shall provide to the Commission the following information:
(i) A report compiled as of the end of each trading day and submitted to the Commission by 10 a.m. U.S. central time on the following business day, containing with respect to swaps:
(A) Total initial margin requirements for all clearing members;
(B) Initial margin requirements and initial margin on deposit for each U.S. clearing member, by house origin and by each customer origin, and by each individual customer account; and
(C) Daily variation margin, separately listing the mark-to-market amount collected from or paid to each U.S. clearing member, by house origin and by each customer origin, and by each individual customer account.
(ii) A report compiled as of the last day of each fiscal quarter of the derivatives clearing organization and submitted to the Commission no later than 17 business days after the end of the derivatives clearing organization's fiscal quarter, containing a list of U.S. clearing members, with respect to the clearing of swaps, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter.
(iii) Prompt notice regarding any change in the home country regulatory regime;
(iv) As available to the derivatives clearing organization, any examination report or examination findings by a home country regulator, and notify the
Commission within five business days after it becomes aware of the commencement of any enforcement or disciplinary action or investigation by a home country regulator;
(v) Immediate notice of any change with respect to the derivatives clearing organization's licensure, registration, or other authorization to act as a derivatives clearing organization in its home country;
(vi) In the event of a default by a clearing member, with such event of default determined in accordance with the rules of the derivatives clearing organization, immediate notice of the default including the amount of the clearing member's financial obligation;
provided, however,
if the defaulting clearing member is a U.S. clearing member, the notice shall also include the name of the U.S. clearing member and a list of the positions held by the U.S. clearing member; and
(vii) Notice of action taken against a U.S. clearing member by a derivatives clearing organization, no later than two business days after the derivatives clearing organization takes such action against a U.S. clearing member.
(d)
Modification of registration upon Commission initiative.
(1) The Commission may, in its discretion and upon its own initiative, modify the terms and conditions of an order of registration subject to compliance with this subpart if the Commission determines that there are changes to or omissions in facts or circumstances pursuant to which the order was issued, or that any of the terms and conditions of its order have not been met, including, but not limited to, the requirement that:
(i) Compliance with the derivatives clearing organization's home country regulatory regime satisfies the core principles set forth in section 5b(c)(2) of the Act;
(ii) The derivatives clearing organization is in good regulatory standing in its home country; or
(iii) The derivatives clearing organization does not pose substantial risk to the U.S. financial system.
(2) The Commission shall provide written notification to a derivatives clearing organization that it is considering whether to modify an order of registration pursuant to this paragraph and the basis for that consideration.
(3) The derivatives clearing organization may respond to the notification in writing no later than 30 business days following receipt of the notification, or at such later time as the Commission permits in writing.
(4) Following receipt of a response from the derivatives clearing organization, or after expiration of the time permitted for a response, the Commission may:
(i) Issue an order requiring the derivatives clearing organization to comply with all requirements applicable to derivatives clearing organizations in the Act and this chapter, effective as of a date to be specified therein. The specified date shall be intended to provide the derivatives clearing organization with a reasonable amount of time to come into compliance with the Act and Commission regulations or request a vacation of registration in accordance with § 39.3(f);
(ii) Issue an amended order of registration that modifies the terms and conditions of the order; or
(iii) Provide written notification to the derivatives clearing organization that the order of registration will remain in effect without modification to its terms and conditions.
Pt. 39, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 39—Form DCO Derivatives Clearing Organization Application for Registration
ER27JA20.000
ER27JA20.001
ER27JA20.002
ER27JA20.003
ER27JA20.004
ER27JA20.005
ER27JA20.006
ER27JA20.007
ER27JA20.008
ER27JA20.009
ER27JA20.010
ER27JA20.011
ER27JA20.012
ER27JA20.013
ER27JA20.014
ER27JA20.015
ER27JA20.016
ER27JA20.017
ER27JA20.018
ER27JA20.019
ER27JA20.020
ER27JA20.021
ER27JA20.022
ER27JA20.023
ER27JA20.024
ER27JA20.025
ER27JA20.026
ER27JA20.027
[85 FR 4863, Jan. 27, 2020]
Pt. 39, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 39—Subpart C Election Form
ER27JA20.028
ER27JA20.029
ER27JA20.030
ER27JA20.031
ER27JA20.032
ER27JA20.033
ER27JA20.034
ER27JA20.035
[85 FR 4891, Jan. 27, 2020]
Pt. 39, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 39—Daily Reporting Data Fields

# A. Daily Cash Flow Reporting
Field name
Description
House
customer
origin
Individual
customer
account
Common Fields (Daily Cash Flow Reporting)
Total Message Count
The total number of reports included in the file
M
M
FIXML Message Type
Financial Information eXchange Markup Language (FIXML) account summary report type
M
M
Sender ID
The CFTC-issued derivatives clearing organization (DCO) identifier
M
M
To ID
Indicate “CFTC”
M
M
Message Transmit Datetime
The date and time the file is transmitted
M
M
Report ID
A unique identifier assigned by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to each clearing member report
M
M
Report Date
The business date of the information being reported
M
M
Base Currency
Base currency referenced throughout report; provide exchange rate against this currency
M
M
Report Time (Message Create Time)
The report “as of” or information cut-off time
M
M
DCO Identifier
CFTC-assigned identifier for a DCO
M
M
Clearing Participant Identifier
DCO-assigned identifier for a particular clearing member
M
M
Clearing Participant Name
The name of the clearing member
M
M
Fund Segregation Type
Clearing fund segregation type
M
M
Clearing Participant LEI
Legal entity identifier (LEI) for a particular clearing member per International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 17442
C
C
Clearing Participant LEI Name
The LEI name associated with the clearing member LEI
C
C
Customer Position Identifier
Proprietary identifier for a particular customer position account
C
N/A
Customer Position Name
The name associated with the customer position identifier
M
N/A
Customer Position Account Type
Type of account used for reporting
C
N/A
Customer LEI
LEI for a particular customer; provide if available
N/A
C
Customer LEI Name
The LEI name associated with the customer position LEI
N/A
C
Margin Account
Margin account identifier
M
N/A
Customer Margin Name
The name associated with the customer margin identifier
N/A
C
Unique Margin Identifier
A single field that uniquely identifies the margin account. This field is used to identify associated positions
M
M
Customer Margin Identifier
Proprietary identifier for a particular customer
N/A
M
Customer Margin Account Type
Account type indicator
N/A
M
Futures and Options (Daily Cash Flow Reporting)
Additional Margin
Any additional margin required in excess of initial margin. For example, this figure should include any liquidity/concentration charge if the charge is not included in the initial margin
M
N/A
Concentration Risk
Risk factor component to capture costs associated with the liquidation of a large position
C
C
Delivery Margin
Margin collected to cover delivery risk
C
N/A
Initial Margin
Margin requirement calculated by the DCO's margin methodology. Unless an integral part of the margin methodology, this figure should not include any additional margin add-ons
M
M
Liquidity Risk
Risk component to capture bid/offer costs associated with the liquidation of a large portfolio.
C
C
Margin Calls
Any outstanding margin call that has been issued but not collected as of the end of the trade date
M
N/A
Total Margin
The total margin requirement for the origin. This margin requirement should include the initial margin requirement plus any additional margin required by the DCO
M
N/A
Variation Margin
Variation margin should include the net sum of all cash flows between the DCO and clearing members by origin
M
N/A
Market Move Risk
Margin amount associated with market move risk
C
C
Margin Savings
The margin savings amount for the clearing member where there is a cross-margining agreement with another DCO
C
N/A
Collateral on Deposit
The collateral on deposit for an origin. This amount should include all collateral after all haircuts that have been deposited to cover the total margin requirement
M
N/A
Option Premium
Premium registered on the given trading date. The amount of money that the options buyer must pay the options seller
C
C
Net Option Value
The credit or debit amount based on the long or short options positions
C
C
Backdated Profit and Loss
The profit and loss (P
L) attributed to positions added that were novated on a prior date
O
N/A
Day Trading Profit and Loss
The P
L attributed to the day's trades
C
N/A
Position Profit and Loss
The P
L of the previous day's position with today's price movement
C
N/A
Total Profit and Loss
Unrealized P
L or mark-to-market value of position(s) including change in mark to market (Total P
L = Position P
L + Day Trading P
L + Backdated P
L)
M
N/A
Customer Margin Omnibus Parent
The margin identifier for the omnibus account associated with the customer margin identifier. (Conditional on reported customer position being part of a separately reported omnibus account position.)
N/A
C
Commodity Swaps (Daily Cash Flow Reporting)
Additional Margin
Any additional margin required in excess of initial margin. For example, this figure should include any liquidity/concentration charge if the charge is not included in the initial margin
M
N/A
Initial Margin
Margin requirement calculated by the DCO's margin methodology. Unless an integral part of the margin methodology, this figure should not include any additional margin add-ons
M
M
Margin Calls
Any outstanding margin call that has been issued but not collected as of the end of the trade date
M
N/A
Total Margin
The total margin requirement for the origin. This margin requirement should include the initial margin requirement plus any additional margin required by the DCO
M
M
Variation Margin
Variation margin should include the net sum of all cash flows between the DCO and clearing members by origin
M
N/A
Collateral on Deposit
The collateral on deposit for an origin. This amount should include all collateral after all haircuts that have been deposited to cover the total margin requirement
M
N/A
Option Premium
Premium registered on the given trading date. The amount of money that the options buyer must pay the options seller
C
N/A
Net Cash Flow
Net cash flow recognized on report date (with actual settlements occurring according to the currency's settlement conventions). E.g., profit/loss, price alignment interest, cash payments (fees, coupons, etc.)
C
N/A
Backdated Profit and Loss
The P
L attributed to positions added that were novated on a prior date
C
N/A
Day Trading Profit and Loss
The P
L attributed to the day's trades
C
N/A
Position Profit and Loss
The P
L of the previous day's position with today's price movement
C
N/A
Total Profit and Loss
Unrealized P
L or mark to market value of position(s) including change in mark to market (Total P
L = Position P
L + Day Trading P
L + Backdated P
L)
M
N/A
Credit Default Swaps (Daily Cash Flow Reporting)
Additional Margin
Any additional margin required in excess of initial margin. For example, this figure should include any liquidity/concentration charge if the charge is not included in the initial margin
M
N/A
Concentration Risk
Risk factor component to capture costs associated with the liquidation of a large position
C
C
Initial Margin
Margin requirement calculated by the DCO's margin methodology. Unless an integral part of the margin methodology, this figure should not include any additional margin add-ons
M
M
Liquidity Risk
Risk component to capture bid/offer costs associated with the liquidation of a large portfolio.
C
C
Margin Calls
Any outstanding margin call that has been issued but not collected as of the end of the trade date
M
N/A
Total Margin
The total margin requirement for the origin. This margin requirement should include the initial margin requirement plus any additional margin required by the DCO
M
C
Variation Margin
Variation margin should include the net sum of all cash flows between the DCO and clearing members by origin
M
N/A
Spread Response Risk
Risk factor component associated with credit spread level changes and credit term structure shape changes
C
C
Systemic Risk
Risk factor component to capture parallel shift of credit spreads
C
C
Curve Risk
Risk factor that captures curve shifts based on portfolio
C
C
Index Spread Risk
Risk factor component associated with risks due to widening/tightening spreads of credit default swap (CDS) indices relative to each other
C
C
Sector Risk
Risk factor component to capture sector risk
C
C
Jump to Default Risk
Risk factor component to capture most extreme up/down move of a reference entity
C
C
Basis Risk
Risk factor component to capture basis risk between index and index constituent reference entities
C
C
Interest Rate Risk
Risk factor component associated with parallel shift movements in interest rates
C
C
Jump to Health Risk
Risk factor component to capture extreme narrowing of credit spreads of a reference entity; also known as “idiosyncratic risk”
C
C
Other Risk
Any other risk factors included in the margin model
C
C
Recovery Rate Sensitivity Risk
Risk factor component to capture fluctuations of recovery rate assumptions
C
C
Wrong Way Risk
Risk that occurs when exposure to a counterparty is adversely correlated with the credit quality of that counterparty. It arises when default risk and credit exposure increase together
C
C
Collateral on Deposit
The collateral on deposit for an origin. This amount should include all collateral after all haircuts that have been deposited to cover the total margin requirement
M
N/A
Option Premium
Premium registered on the given trading date. The amount of money that the options buyer must pay the options seller
C
N/A
Initial Coupon
Amount of coupon premium amount accrued from the start of the current coupon period through the trade date. (Indicate gross pay/collect amounts.)
O
N/A
Upfront Payment
The difference in market value between the standard coupon and the market spread as well as the coupon accrued through the trade date. (Indicate gross pay/collect amounts.)
O
N/A
Trade Cash Adjustment
Additional cash amount on trades. (Indicate gross pay/collect amounts.)
C
N/A
Quarterly Coupon
Regular payment of quarterly coupon premium amounts. (Indicate gross pay/collect amounts.)
O
N/A
Credit Event Payments
Cash settlement of credit events. (Indicate gross pay/collect amounts.)
C
N/A
Accrued Coupon
Coupon obligation from the first day of the coupon period through the current clearing trade date. The sum of accrued coupon for each position in the clearing member's portfolio (by origin).
M
N/A
Final Mark to Market
Determined by marking the end-of-day position from par (100%) to the end-of-day settlement price
M
N/A
Backdated Profit and Loss
The P
L attributed to positions added that were novated on a prior date
C
N/A
Day Trading Profit and Loss
The P
L attributed to the day's trades
C
N/A
Position Profit and Loss
The P
L of the previous day's position with today's price movement
C
N/A
Total Profit and Loss
Unrealized P
L or mark-to-market value of position(s) including change in mark to market (Total P
L = Position P
L + Day Trading P
L + Backdated P
L)
M
N/A
Previous Accrued Coupon
Previous day's accrued coupon
M
N/A
Previous Mark to Market
Previous day's mark to market
M
N/A
Price Alignment Interest
To minimize the impact of daily cash variation margin payments on the pricing of swaps, the DCO will charge interest on cumulative variation margin received and pay interest on cumulative variation margin paid
M
N/A
Foreign Exchange (Daily Cash Flow Reporting)
Additional Margin
Any additional margin required in excess of initial margin. For example, this figure should include any liquidity/concentration charge if the charge is not included in the initial margin
M
N/A
Initial Margin
Margin requirement calculated by the DCO's margin methodology. Unless an integral part of the margin methodology, this figure should not include any additional margin add-ons.
M
M
Margin Calls
Any outstanding margin call that has been issued but not collected as of the end of the trade date
M
N/A
Total Margin
The total margin requirement for the origin. This margin requirement should include the initial margin requirement plus any additional margin required by the DCO
M
M
Variation Margin
Variation margin should include the net sum of all cash flows between the DCO and clearing members by origin
M
N/A
Collateral on Deposit
The collateral on deposit for an origin. This amount should include all collateral after all haircuts that have been deposited to cover the total margin requirement
M
N/A
Other Payments
Includes any upfront and/or final/settlement payments made/received for the trade date. (Indicate gross pay/collect amounts.)
M
N/A
Option Premium
Premium registered on the given trading date. The amount of money that the options buyer must pay the options seller
C
N/A
Price Alignment Interest
To minimize the impact of daily cash variation margin payments on the pricing of swaps, the DCO will charge interest on cumulative variation margin received and pay interest on cumulative variation margin paid
M
N/A
Backdated Profit and Loss
The P
L attributed to positions added that were novated on a prior date
C
N/A
Day Trading Profit and Loss
The P
L attributed to the day's trades
C
N/A
Position Profit and Loss
The P
L of the previous day's position with today's price movement
C
N/A
Total Profit and Loss
Unrealized P
L or mark-to-market value of position(s) including change in mark to market (Total P
L = Position P
L + Day Trading P
L + Backdated P
L)
M
N/A
Interest Rate Swaps (Daily Cash Flow Reporting)
Additional Margin
Any additional margin required in excess of initial margin. For example, this figure should include any liquidity/concentration charge if the charge is not included in the initial margin
M
N/A
Initial Margin
Margin requirement calculated by the DCO's margin methodology. Unless an integral part of the margin methodology, this figure should not include any additional margin add-ons
M
M
Margin Calls
Any outstanding margin call that has been issued but not collected as of the end of the trade date
M
N/A
Total Margin
The total margin requirement for the origin. This margin requirement should include the initial margin requirement plus any additional margin required by the DCO
M
M
Variation Margin
Variation margin should include the net sum of all cash flows between the DCO and clearing members by origin
M
N/A
Cross-Margined Products Profit/Loss
P
L resulting from changes in value due to changes in the futures price. This P
L should only include changes to the cross-margined futures in the account
C
N/A
Option Premium
Premium registered on the given trading date. The amount of money that the options buyer must pay the options seller
C
N/A
Collateral on Deposit
The collateral on deposit for an origin. This amount should include all collateral after all haircuts that have been deposited to cover the total margin requirement
M
N/A
Other Payments
Includes any upfront and/or final/settlement payments made/received for the trade date. (Indicate gross pay/collect amounts.)
C
N/A
Net Coupon Payment
Net amount of any coupon cash flows recognized on report date but actually occurring on currency's settlement convention date. (Indicate gross pay/collect amounts.)
M
N/A
Net Present Value
Net present value (NPV) of all positions by currency
M
N/A
Net Present Value Previous
Previous day's NPV by currency
M
N/A
PV of Other Payments
Includes the present value of any upfront and/or final/settlement payments that will be settled after the report date. Only include amounts that are affecting the NPV of current trades
M
N/A
Price Alignment Interest
To minimize the impact of daily cash variation margin payments on the pricing of swaps, the DCO will charge interest on cumulative variation margin received and pay interest on cumulative variation margin paid
M
N/A
Accrued Coupon
Coupon obligation from the first day of the coupon period through the current clearing trade date. The sum of accrued coupon for each position in the clearing member's portfolio (by origin)
M
N/A
Backdated Profit and Loss
The P
L attributed to positions added that were novated on a prior date
C
N/A
Day Trading Profit and Loss
The P
L attributed to the day's trades
C
N/A
Position Profit and Loss
The P
L of the previous day's position with today's price movement
C
N/A
Total Profit and Loss
Unrealized P
L or mark-to-market value of position(s) including change in mark to market (Total P
L = Position P
L + Day Trading P
L + Backdated P
L).
M
N/A
Equity Cross Margin (Daily Cash Flow Reporting)
Additional Margin
Any additional margin required in excess of initial margin. For example, this figure should include any liquidity/concentration charge if the charge is not included in the initial margin
M
N/A
Initial Margin
Margin requirement calculated by the DCO's margin methodology. Unless an integral part of the margin methodology, this figure should not include any additional margin add-ons resulting from liquidity/concentration charges
M
M
Liquidity Risk
Risk component to capture bid/offer costs associated with the liquidation of a large portfolio
C
C
Margin Calls
Any outstanding margin call that has been issued but not collected as of the end of the trade date.
M
N/A
Total Margin
The total margin requirement for the origin. This margin requirement should include the initial margin requirement plus any additional margin required by the DCO
M
N/A
Variation Margin
Variation margin should include the net sum of all cash flows between the DCO and clearing members by origin.
M
N/A
Collateral on Deposit
The collateral on deposit for an origin. This amount should include all collateral after all haircuts that have been deposited to cover the total margin requirement
M
N/A
Option Premium
Premium registered on the given trading date. The amount of money that the options buyer must pay the options seller
C
N/A
Net Option Value
The credit or debit amount based on the long or short options positions
C
C
Backdated Profit and Loss
The P
L attributed to positions added that were novated on a prior date.
C
N/A
Day Trading Profit and Loss
The P
L attributed to the day's trades
C
N/A
Position Profit and Loss
The P
L of the previous day's position with today's price movement
C
N/A
Total Profit and Loss
Unrealized P
L or mark to market value of position(s) including change in mark to market (Total P
L = Position P
L + Day Trading P
L + Backdated P
L)
M
N/A
Consolidated (Daily Cash Flow Reporting)
Additional Margin
Any additional margin required in excess of initial margin. For example, this figure should include any liquidity/concentration charge if the charge is not included in the initial margin
M
N/A
Initial Margin
Margin requirement calculated by the DCO's margin methodology. Unless an integral part of the margin methodology, this figure should not include any additional margin add-ons
M
N/A
Margin Calls
Any outstanding margin call that has been issued but not collected as of the end of the trade date
M
N/A
Total Margin
The consolidated non-U.S. margin requirement for the origin. The consolidated non-U.S. margin requirement should include the initial margin requirement plus any additional margin required by the DCO
M
N/A
Variation Margin
Variation margin should include the net sum of all cash flows between the DCO and clearing members by origin
M
N/A
Collateral on Deposit
The collateral on deposit for an origin. This amount should include all collateral after all haircuts that have been deposited to cover the total margin requirement
M
N/A
Option Premium
Premium registered on the given trading date. The amount of money that the options buyer must pay the options seller
C
N/A
Backdated Profit and Loss
The P
L attributed to positions added that were novated on a prior date
C
N/A
Day Trading Profit and Loss
The P
L attributed to the day's trades
C
N/A
Position Profit and Loss
The P
L of the previous day's position with today's price movement
C
N/A
Total Profit and Loss
Unrealized P
L or mark-to-market value of position(s) including change in mark to market (Total P
L = Position P
L + Day Trading P
L + Backdated P
L)
M
N/A
Exempt DCO (Daily Cash Flow Reporting)
Additional Margin
Any additional margin required in excess of initial margin. For example, this figure should include any liquidity/concentration charge if the charge is not included in the initial margin
M
N/A
Initial Margin
Margin requirement calculated by the DCO's margin methodology. Unless an integral part of the margin methodology, this figure should not include any additional margin add-ons
M
N/A
Margin Calls
Any outstanding margin call that has been issued but not collected as of the end of the trade date
M
N/A
Total Margin
The U.S. person margin requirement for the origin by currency contribution. If the traded currency's swaps (i.e., JY) offset risk of other currencies, include an amount of zero for that currency. This margin requirement should include the initial margin requirement plus any additional margin required by the DCO
M
N/A
Variation Margin
Variation margin should include the net sum of all cash flows between the DCO and clearing members by origin
M
N/A
Collateral on Deposit
The collateral on deposit for an origin. This amount should include all collateral after all haircuts that have been deposited to cover the total margin requirement
M
N/A
Mark-to-Market
Determined by marking the end of day position(s) from par (100%) to the end of day settlement price
M
N/A
M = mandatory C = conditional O = optional.

# B. Daily Position Reporting
Field name
Description
Use
Common Fields (Daily Position Reporting)
Total Message Count
The total number of reports included in the file
M
FIXML Message Type
FIXML account summary report type
M
Sender ID
The CFTC-issued DCO identifier
M
To ID
Indicate “CFTC”
M
Message Transmit Datetime
The date and time the file is transmitted
M
Report ID
A unique identifier assigned by the CFTC to each clearing member report
M
Report Date
The business date of the information being reported
M
Base Currency
Base currency referenced throughout report; provide exchange rate against this currency
M
Report Time (Message Create Time)
The report “as of” or information cut-off time
M
Message Event
The event source being reported
M
Market Segment ID
Market segment associated with the position report
M
DCO Identifier
CFTC-assigned identifier for a DCO
M
Clearing Participant Identifier
DCO-assigned identifier for a particular clearing member
M
Clearing Participant Name
The name of the clearing member
M
Fund Segregation Type
Clearing fund segregation type
M
Clearing Participant LEI
LEI for a particular clearing member
C
Clearing Participant LEI Name
The LEI name associated with the clearing member LEI
C
Customer Position Identifier
Proprietary identifier for a particular customer position account
C
Customer Position Name
The name associated with the customer position identifier
M
Customer Position Account Type
Type of account used for reporting
C
Customer Position LEI
LEI for a particular customer; must be provided when available
C
Customer Position LEI Name
The LEI name associated with the Customer Position LEI
C
Customer Margin Identifier
Proprietary identifier for a particular customer
C
Customer Margin Name
The name associated with the customer margin identifier
C
Unique Margin Identifier
A single field that uniquely identifies the margin account. This field is used to identify associated positions
M
Futures and Options (Daily Position Reporting)
Settlement Price/Currency
Settlement price, prior settlement price, settlement currency, and final settlement date
M
Cross-Margin Entity
Name of the entity associated with a cross-margined account
C
Exchange Commodity Code
Contract commodity code issued by the exchange;
e.g.,
ticker symbol, the human recognizable trading identifier
M
Clearing Commodity Code
Registered commodity clearing identifier. The code is for the contract as if it was traded in the form it is cleared. For example, if the contract was traded as a spread but cleared as an outright, the outright symbol should be used
M
Product Type
Indicates the type of product with which the security is associated
C
Security Type
Indicates type of security
M
Maturity Month Year
Month and year of the maturity
M
Maturity Date
The date on which the principal amount becomes due
C
Asset Class
The broad asset category for assessing risk exposure
M
Asset Subclass
The subcategory description of the asset class
C
Asset Type
Provides a more specific description of the asset subclass
C
Asset Subtype
Provides a more specific description of the asset type
C
Security Group (Sector)
A name assigned to a group of related instruments which may be concurrently affected by market events and actions
C
Unit Leverage Factor
The multiplier needed to convert a change of one point of the quoted index into local currency P
L for a 1-unit long position
M
Units
Unit of measure
M
Settlement Method
Method of settlement
C
Exchange Identifier (MIC)
Exchange where the instrument is traded, per ISO 10383
M
Security Description
Used to provide a textual description of a financial instrument
M
Unique Product Identifier
A single field that uniquely identifies a given product. All positions with this identifier will have the same price
M
Alternate Product Identifier—Spread Underlying Long
When a contract represents a differential between two products, the product code that represents the long position in the spread for long position in the combined contract
C
Alternate Product Identifier—Spread Underlying Short
When a contract represents a differential between two products, the product code that represents the long position in the spread for short position in the combined contract
C
Last Trading Date
The last day of trading in a futures contract
M
First Notice Date
The first date on which delivery notices are issued
C
Position (Long)
Long position size. If a position is quoted in a unit of measure (UOM) different from the contract, specify the UOM. If a position is measured in a currency, specify the currency
M
Position (Short)
Short position size. If a position is quoted in a UOM different from the contract, specify the UOM. If a position is measured in a currency, specify the currency
M
Settlement FX Info
Settlement price foreign exchange conversion rate
M
Change in Settlement Price
The quoted price change between the prior trading day's settlement and today's settlement
M
Unit Currency P
L
The local currency P
L between the prior trading day's settlement and today's settlement for a 1-unit long position
M
Outright Initial Margin
Initial margin for the position as if it were a stand-alone outright position
C
Option Exercise Style
Exercise style
C
Option Strike Price
Option strike price
C
Option Put/Call Indicator
Option type
C
Underlying Settlement Price/Currency
Settlement price, prior settlement price, settlement currency, and final settlement date
C
Underlying Exchange Commodity Code
Underlying Contract code issued by the exchange
C
Underlying Clearing Commodity Code
Registered commodity clearing identifier. The code is for the contract as if it was traded in the form it is cleared. For example, if the contract was traded as a spread but cleared as an outright, the outright symbol should be used
C
Underlying Product Type
Indicates the type of product the security is associated with
C
Underlying Security Type
Indicator which identifies the underlying derivative type
C
Underlying Security Group (Sector)
A name assigned to a group of related instruments which may be concurrently affected by market events and actions
C
Underlying Maturity Month Year
Month and year of the maturity
C
Underlying Maturity Date
The date on which the principal amount becomes due
C
Underlying Asset Class
The underlying broad asset category for assessing risk exposure
C
Underlying Asset Subclass
The subcategory description of the asset class
C
Underlying Asset Type
Provides a more specific description of the asset subclass
C
Underlying Asset Subtype
Provides a more specific description of the asset type.
C
Underlying Exchange Code (MIC)
Exchange where the underlying instrument is traded
C
Underlying Security Description
Textual description of a financial instrument
C
Unique Underlying Product Code
A single field that is the result of concatenating relevant fields that create a unique product ID that is associated with a unique price
C
Primary Options Exchange Code—Implied Volatility Quote
This field identifies the main options chain for the future that provides the implied volatility quote
C
DELTA
Delta is the measure of how the option's value varies with changes in the underlying price
C
Implied Volatility
The implied volatility and quotation style for the contract, typically in natural log percent or index points
C
Customer Margin Omnibus Parent
The margin identifier for the omnibus account associated with the customer margin identifier. (Conditional on reported customer position being part of a separately reported omnibus account position)
C
Commodity Swaps (Daily Position Reporting)
Settlement Price/Currency
Settlement price, prior settlement price, settlement currency, and final settlement date
M
Exchange Commodity Code
Contract commodity code issued by the exchange;
e.g.,
ticker symbol, the human recognizable trading identifier
M
Clearing Commodity Code
Registered commodity clearing identifier. The code is for the contract as if it was traded in the form it is cleared. For example, if the contract was traded as a spread but cleared as an outright, the outright symbol should be used
M
Product Type
Indicates the type of product with which the security is associated
C
Security Group (Sector)
A name assigned to a group of related instruments which may be concurrently affected by market events and actions
C
Unique Product Identifier
A unique set of characters that represents a particular swap. The Commission will designate a UPI pursuant to 17 CFR 45.7
O
Maturity Month Year
Month and year of the maturity
M
Maturity Date
The date on which the principal amount becomes due
C
Asset Class
The broad asset category for assessing risk exposure
M
Asset Subclass
The subcategory description of the asset class
C
Asset Type
Provides a more specific description of the asset subclass
C
Unit Leverage Factor
The multiplier needed to convert a change of one point of the quoted index into local currency P
L for a 1-unit long position
C
Minimum Tick
Minimum price tick increment
C
Units
Unit of measure
M
Settlement Method
Swap settlement method
C
Exchange Identifier (MIC)
Exchange where the instrument is traded
M
Security Description
Used to provide a textual description of a financial instrument
C
Security Type
Indicates type of security
M
Position (Long)
Long position size. If a position is quoted in a UOM different from the contract, specify the UOM. If a position is measured in a currency, specify the currency
M
Position (Short)
Short position size. If a position is quoted in a UOM different from the contract, specify the UOM. If a position is measured in a currency, specify the currency
M
Net Cash Flow
Net cash flow recognized on report date (with actual settlements occurring according to the currency's settlement conventions).
E.g.,
profit/loss, price alignment interest, cash payments (fees, coupons, etc.)
C
Settlement FX Info
Settlement price foreign exchange conversion rate
M
Universal (or Unique) Swap Identifier
Universal (or Unique) Swap Identifier (USI) namespace and USI. The USI namespace and the USI should be separated by a pipe “|” character
M
Option Exercise Style
Exercise style
C
Option Put/Call Indicator
Option type
M
Option Strike Price
Option strike price
M
Underlying Settlement Price/Currency
Settlement price, prior settlement price, settlement currency, and final settlement date
M
Underlying Exchange Commodity Code
Underlying Contract code issued by the exchange
C
Underlying Clearing Commodity Code
Registered commodity clearing identifier. The code is for the contract as if it was traded in the form it is cleared. For example, if the contract was traded as a spread but cleared as an outright, the outright symbol should be used
M
Underlying Product Type
Indicates the type of product the security is associated with
C
Underlying Security Group (Sector)
A name assigned to a group of related instruments which may be concurrently affected by market events and actions
C
Underlying Maturity Month Year
Month and year of the maturity
M
Underlying Maturity Date
The date on which the principal amount becomes due
C
Underlying Asset Class
The underlying broad asset category for assessing risk exposure
M
Underlying Asset Subclass
The subcategory description of the asset class
C
Underlying Asset Type
Provides a more specific description of the asset subclass
C
Underlying Exchange Code (MIC)
Exchange where the underlying instrument is traded
M
Underlying Security Type
Indicates type of security
M
Underlying Security Description
Textual description of a financial instrument
C
DELTA
Delta is the measure of how the option's value varies with changes in the underlying price
C
Credit Default Swaps (Daily Position Reporting)
Settlement Price/Currency
Settlement price, prior settlement price, settlement currency, and final settlement date
M
Exchange Security Identifier
Contract code issued by the exchange
O
Redcode
The code assigned to the CDS by Markit that identifies the referenced entity or the index, series and version. (Underlying instrument is required for Security Type = SWAPTION.)
M
Unique Product Identifier
A unique set of characters that represents a particular swap. The Commission will designate a UPI pursuant to Commission regulation 17 CFR 45.7
O
Security Type
Indicator which identifies the derivative type
M
Restructuring Type
This field is used if the index has been restructured due to a credit event
M
Seniority Type
The class of debt
M
Maturity Date
The date on which the principal amount becomes due
C
Asset Class
The broad asset category for assessing risk exposure
M
Asset Subclass
The subcategory description of the asset class
C
Asset Type
Provides a more specific description of the asset subclass
C
Reference Entity Type (Sector)
Specifies the type of reference entity for first-to-default CDS basket contracts. The Markit sector code should be provided when available
M
Coupon Rate
The coupon rate associated with this CDS transaction stated in Basis Points
M
Security Description (Reference Entity)
Name of CDS index or single-name or sovereign debt
M
Recovery Factor
The assumed recovery rate used to determine the CDS price
O
Position (Long)
Long position size. If a position is quoted in a UOM different from the contract, specify the UOM. If a position is measured in a currency, specify the currency
M
Position (Short)
Short position size. If a position is quoted in a UOM different from the contract, specify the UOM. If a position is measured in a currency, specify the currency
M
5 YR Equivalent Notional
The five-year equivalent notional amount for each risk factor/reference entity CDS contract
M
Accrued Coupon
Coupon obligation from the first day of the coupon period through the current clearing trade date
M
Profit and Loss
Unrealized P
L or mark to market value of position(s) including change in mark to market plus change in accrued coupon plus change in unsettled upfront fees. Does not include cash flows related to quarterly coupon payments, credit event payments, or price alignment interest
M
Credit Exposure (CS01)
The credit exposure of the swap at a given point in time. CS01 = Spread DV01 = “dollar” value of a basis point = In currency (not percentage) terms, the change in fair value of the leg, transaction, position, or portfolio (as appropriate) commensurate with a 1 basis point (0.01 percent) instantaneous, hypothetical increase in the related credit spread curves. CS01/Spread DV01 may refer to non-dollar currencies and related curves. From the DCO's point of view: positive CS01 = gain in value resulting from 1 basis point increase, negative CS01 = loss of value resulting from 1 basis point increase
C
Mark to Market
Determined by marking the end of day position(s) from par (100%) to the end of day settlement price
M
Price Value of a Basis Point (PV01)
Change in P
L of a position given a one basis point move in CDS spread value. May also be referred to as DV01, Sprd DV01
M
Previous Accrued Coupon
Previous day's accrued coupon
M
Previous Mark to Market
Previous day's mark to market
M
Universal (or Unique) Swap Identifier
Universal (or Unique) Swap Identifier (USI) namespace and USI. The USI namespace and the USI should be separated by a pipe “|” character
O
Option Strike Price
Option strike price
C
Settlement Method
Method of settlement
C
Option Exercise Style
Exercise style
C
Option Put/Call Indicator
Option type
C
Option Type
Specifies the option type
C
Option Start Date
The option adjusted start date
C
Option Expiration Date—Adjusted
The CDS option adjusted expiration date
C
Underlying Exchange Security Identifier
The underlying contract alias used by outside vendors to uniquely identify the contract
O
Underlying Clearing Security Identifier (Red Code)
The underlying code assigned to the CDS by Markit that identifies the referenced entity or the index, series and version
C
Underlying Unique Product Identifier
A unique set of characters that represents a particular swap. The Commission will designate a UPI pursuant to Commission regulation 17 CFR 45.7
O
Underlying Security Type
Indicator which identifies the underlying derivative type
C
Underlying Restructuring Type
This field is used if the underlying index has been restructured due to a credit event
C
Underlying Seniority Type
The underlying class of debt
C
Underlying Maturity Date
The date on which the principal amount becomes due
C
Underlying Asset Class
The underlying broad asset category for assessing risk exposure
C
Underlying Asset Subclass
The subcategory description of the asset class
C
Underlying Asset Type
Provides a more specific description of the asset subclass
C
Underlying Reference Entity Type (Sector)
Specifies the type of underlying reference entity for first-to-default CDS basket contracts
C
Underlying Coupon Rate
The underlying coupon rate associated with this CDS transaction stated in basis points
C
Underlying Security Description
Textual description of a financial instrument
C
Underlying Recovery Factor
The assumed recovery rate used to determine the underlying CDS price
C
DELTA
Delta is the measure of how the option's value varies with changes in the underlying price
M
GAMMA
Gamma is the rate of change for delta with respect to the underlying asset's price
M
RHO
Rho measures the sensitivity of an option's price to a variation in the risk-free interest rate
M
THETA
Theta is the rate at which an option loses value as time passes
M
VEGA
Vega is the measurement of an option's sensitivity to changes in the volatility of the underlying asset
M
Option Premium
Premium registered on the given trading date. The amount of money that the options buyer must pay the options seller
C
Option Premium Date
Date swaption premium is paid
C
Foreign Exchange (Daily Position Reporting)
Settle Date
Settle date of the position
M
Settlement Price/Fixing Currency
Settlement price of the position
M
Discount Factor
Discount factor for the position. Use the factor for the Mark to Market (MTM) currency
M
Valuation Date
Valuation date of the position
M
Delivery Date
Delivery date of the position
M
Clearing Security Identifier
Code assigned by the DCO for a particular contract
M
Unique Product Identifier
A unique set of characters that represents a particular swap. The Commission will designate a UPI pursuant to Commission regulation 17 CFR 45.7
O
Security Type
Registered commodity clearing identifier. (Underlying instrument is required for Security Type = FXOPT | FXNDO.)
M
Maturity Month Year
Month and year of the maturity
C
Maturity Date (Expiration)
Specifies date of maturity (a calendar date). Used for FXFWD/FXNDF. For non-deliverable forwards (NDFs), this represents the fixing date of the contract
C
Maturity Time (Expiration)
The contract expiration time. (Used for FXFWD/FXNDF.)
C
Asset Class
The broad asset category for assessing risk exposure
M
Asset Subclass
The subcategory description of the asset class
C
Asset Type
Provides a more specific description of the asset subclass
C
Valuation Method
Specifies the type of valuation method applied
C
Security Description
Used to provide a textual description of a financial instrument
C
Foreign Exchange Type
Identifies the type of FX contract. Use Typ = 7 for direct FX (
e.g.,
EUR/USD). Use Typ = 16 for NDFWD contracts (
e.g.,
THB/INR settled in USD)
M
Currency One
Specifies the first or only reference currency of the trade
M
Currency Two
Specifies the second reference currency of the trade
M
Quote Basis
For foreign exchange quanto option feature
M
Fixed Rate
(FXFWD or FXNDF only). Specifies the forward FX rate alternative
C
Spot Rate
Specifies the FX spot rates the first or only reference currency of the trade
C
Forward Points
(FXFWD or FXNDF only) The interest rate differential in basis points between the base and quote currencies in a forward rate quote. May be a negative value. (The number of basis points added to or subtracted from the current spot rate of a currency pair to determine the forward rate for delivery on a specific value date.)
C
Delivery Type Indicator
Delivery type indicator
M
Position—Long
Gross long position. An affirmative zero value should be reported for the long position. (Both long and short positions are required.) For FXNDF use Typ = DLV for settlement currency
M
Position—Short
Gross short position. An affirmative zero value should be reported for the short position. (Both long and short positions are required.) For FXNDF use Typ = DLV for settlement currency
M
Final Mark to Market
Mark to market which includes the discount factor
M
Dollar Value of a Basis Point (DV01)—Long Currency
The dollar value of a one basis point change (DV01) in the yield of the underlying security and that of the hedging vehicle
M
Dollar Value of a Basis Point (DV01)—Short Currency
The dollar value of a one basis point change (DV01) in the yield of the underlying security and that of the hedging vehicle
M
Net Cash Flow
Net cash flow recognized on report date (with actual settlements occurring according to the currency's settlement conventions).
E.g.,
profit/loss, price alignment interest, cash payments (fees, coupons, etc.)
M
Undiscounted Mark to Market
Mark to market, which does not include the discount factor
M
Price Alignment Interest
To minimize the impact of daily cash variation margin payments on the pricing of swaps, the DCO will charge interest on cumulative variation margin received and pay interest on cumulative variation margin paid
M
Universal (or Unique) Swap Identifier
Universal (or Unique) Swap Identifier (USI) namespace and USI. The USI namespace and the USI should be separated by a pipe “|” character
M
Option Put/Call Indicator
Option type
C
Strike Rate
Option strike rate
C
Option Exercise Style
Exercise style
C
Option Cut Name
The code by which the expiry time is known in the market
C
Underlying Settlement Price/Fixing Currency
Settlement price for the position. (Underlying settlement is required for FXOPT, FXNDO.)
C
Underlying Exchange Security Code
Security code issued by the exchange;
e.g.,
ticker symbol, the human recognizable trading identifier
C
Underlying Clearing Security Identifier
Code assigned by the DCO for the underlying contract
C
Underlying Unique Product Identifier
A unique set of characters that represents a particular swap. The Commission will designate a UPI pursuant to Commission regulation 17 CFR 45.7
O
Underlying Security Type
Indicator which identifies the underlying derivative
C
Underlying Maturity Month Year
Month and year of the maturity
C
Underlying Maturity Date (Expiration)
For FXFWD/FXNDF, the date on which the principal amount becomes due. For NDFs, this represents the fixing date of the contract
C
Underlying Exchange Identifier (MIC)
Exchange where the underlying instrument is traded
C
Underlying Security Description
Textual description of a financial instrument
C
Option Long/Short Indicator
Indicates whether the option is short or long
C
Option Expiration
Adjusted option expiration date
C
Notional Long/Short
FX currency notional long or short
M
Implied Volatility
The implied volatility and quotation style for the contract, typically in natural log percent or index points
C
DELTA
Delta is the measure of how the option's value varies with changes in the underlying price
M
GAMMA
Gamma is the rate of change for delta with respect to the underlying asset's price
M
RHO
Rho measures the sensitivity of an option's price to a variation in the risk-free interest rate
M
THETA
Theta is the rate at which an option loses value as time passes
M
VEGA
Vega is the measurement of an option's sensitivity to changes in the volatility of the underlying asset
M
Option Premium MTM
Premium mark to market, which includes the discount factor
C
Interest Rate Swaps (Daily Position Reporting)
Cleared Date
Date on which the trade was cleared at the DCO
M
Position Status
Position status: active, or terminated. Terminated positions should only be reported on the day of termination
M
DCO Pays Indicator
Indicate which cash flow the DCO pays
M
DCO Receives Indicator
Indicate which cash flow the DCO receives
M
Clearing Participant Pays Indicator
Indicate which cash flow the clearing member pays
M
Clearing Participant Receives Indicator
Indicate which cash flow the clearing member receives
M
Clearing Security Identifier
Code assigned by the DCO for a particular contract
M
Unique Product Identifier
A unique set of characters that represents a particular swap. The Commission will designate a UPI pursuant to Commission regulation 17 CFR 45.7
O
Security Type
Registered commodity clearing identifier
M
Asset Class
The broad asset category for assessing risk exposure
M
Asset Subclass
The subcategory description of the asset class
C
Asset Type
Provides a more specific description of the asset subclass
C
Swap Class
The classification or type of swap
M
Swap Subclass
The sub-classification or notional schedule type of the swap
C
Security Description
Used to provide a textual description of a financial instrument
M
Leg Type
Identifies if the leg is fixed or floating
M
Leg Notional
Notional amount associated with leg
M
Leg Notional Currency
Currency of the leg's notional amount
M
Leg Start Date Adj Bus Day Conv
If start date falls on a weekend or holiday, value defines how to adjust actual start date
C
Leg Start Date
Leg's effective date
M
Leg Maturity Date Adj Bus Day Conv
If the maturity date falls on a weekend or holiday, value defines how to adjust actual maturity date
C
Leg Maturity Date
The date on which the leg's principal amount becomes due
M
Leg Maturity Date Adj Calendar
Regarding the maturity date, this specifies which dates are considered holidays
C
Leg Calculation Period Adjusted Business Day Convention
If a date defining the calculation period falls on a holiday, this adjusts the actual dates based on the definition of the input
C
Leg Calculation Frequency
Calculation frequency, also known as the compounding frequency for compounded swaps
M
Leg First Reg Per Start Date
If there is a beginning stub, this indicates the date when the usual payment periods will begin
C
Leg Last Reg Per End Date
If there is an ending stub, this indicates the date when the usual payment periods will end
C
Leg Roll Conv
Indicates the day of the month when the payment is made
C
Leg Calc Per Adj Calendar
Regarding the calculation period, this specifies which dates are considered holidays
C
Leg Daycount
Defines how interest is accrued/calculated
C
Leg Comp Method
If payments are made on one timeframe but calculations are made on a shorter timeframe, this describes how to compound interest
C
Leg Pay Adj Bus Day Conv
If cash flow pay or receive date falls on a weekend or holiday, value defines actual date payment is made
C
Leg Pay Frequency
Frequency at which payments are made
M
Leg Pay Relative To
Payment relative to the beginning or end of the period
C
Leg Payment Lag
Number of business days after payment due date on which the payment is actually made
C
Leg Pay Adj Calendar
Regarding dates on which cash flow payments/receipts are scheduled, this specifies which dates are considered holidays
C
Leg Reset Relative To
Specifies whether reset dates are determined with respect to each adjusted calculation period start date or adjusted calculation period end date
C
Leg Reset Date Adj Bus Day Conv
Business day convention to apply to each reset date if the reset date falls on a holiday
C
Leg Reset Frequency
Frequency at which resets occur. If the Leg Reset Frequency is greater than the calculation per frequency, more than 1 reset date should be established for each calculation per frequency and some form of rate averaging is applicable
C
Leg Fixing Date Bus Day Conv
Business day convention to apply to each fixing date if the fixing date falls on a holiday
C
Leg Fixing Date Offset
Specifies the fixing date relative to the reset date in terms of a business days offset
C
Leg Fixing Day Type
The type of days to use to find the fixing date (
i.e.,
business days, calendar days, etc.)
C
Leg Reset Date Adj Calendar
Regarding reset dates, this specifies which dates are considered holidays
C
Leg Fixing Date Calendar
Regarding the fixing date, this specifies which dates are considered holidays
C
Leg Fixed Rate or Amount
Only populate if Leg1 is Type “Fixed”. This should be expressed in decimal form (
e.g.,
4% should be input as “.04”)
C
Leg Index
If Stream is floating rate, this gives the index applicable to the floating rate
C
Leg Index Tenor
For the floating rate leg, the tenor of the leg. For the fixed rate leg, NULL
C
Leg Spread
Describes if there is a spread (typically an add-on) applied to the coupon rate
C
Leg Pmt Sched Notional
Variable notional swap notional values
C
Leg Initial Stub Rate
The interest rate applicable to the Initial Stub Period in decimal form (
e.g.,
4% should be input as “.04”)
C
Leg Initial Stub Rate Index 1
Stub rate can be a linear interpolation between two floating rate tenors.
E.g.,
if the stub period is 2 months, rate is linear interpolation of 1-month and 3-month reference rates. Specify the first index
C
Leg Initial Stub Rate Index 2 Tenor
Stub rate can be a linear interpolation between two floating rate tenors.
E.g.,
if the stub period is 2 months, rate is linear interpolation of 1-month and 3-month reference rates. Specify the second index
C
Leg Final Stub Rate
The interest rate applicable to the final stub period in decimal form (
e.g.,
4% should be input as “.04”)
C
Leg Final Stub Rate Index 1
Stub rate can be a linear interpolation between two floating rate tenors.
E.g.,
if the stub period is 2 months, rate is linear interpolation of 1-month and 3-month reference rates. Specify the first index
C
Leg Final Stub Rate Index 2 Tenor
Stub rate can be a linear interpolation between two floating rate tenors.
E.g.,
if the stub period is 2 months, rate is linear interpolation of 1-month and 3-month reference rates. Specify the second index
C
Accrued Coupon (Interest)
Net accrued coupon amount since the last payment in the leg currency. If reported by leg, indicate the associated stream (leg) description (
e.g.,
“FIXED/FLOAT,” “FLOAT1/FLOAT2”)
M
Profit/Loss
Profit/loss resulting from changes in value due to changes in underlying curve movements or floating index rate resets. This should exclude impacts to NPVs from extraneous cash flows (price alignment interest, fees, and coupons)
M
Leg Current Period Rate
If leg is a floating leg, this indicates the current rate used to calculate the next floating Leg coupon in decimal form (
e.g.,
4% should be input as “.04”)
M
Leg Coupon Payment
Coupon amount for T + 1 in the leg currency. This should reflect the net cash flow that will actually occur on the following business day. Negative number indicates that a payment was made
M
Dollar Value of Basis Point (DV01)
Change in value in USD if the relevant pricing curve is shifted up by 1 basis point. DV01 = “dollar” value of a basis point in currency (not percentage) terms, the change in fair value of the leg, transaction, position, or portfolio (as appropriate) commensurate with a 1 basis point (0.01 percent) instantaneous, hypothetical increase in the related zero-coupon curves. DV01 may refer to non-dollar currencies and related curves. From the DCO's point of view: positive DV01 = profit/gain resulting from 1 basis point increase, negative DV01 = loss resulting from 1 basis point increase
M
Net Cash Flow
Net cash flow recognized on report date (with actual settlements occurring according to the currency's settlement conventions).
E.g.,
Profit/Loss, price alignment interest, cash payments (fees, coupons, etc.)
M
Net Present Value
Net present value (NPV) of all positions by currency
M
Present Value of Other Payments
Includes the present value of any upfront and/or final/settlement payments that will be settled after the report date. Only include amounts that are affecting the NPV of current trades
M
Net Present Value Previous
Previous day's NPV by currency
C
Price Alignment Interest
To minimize the impact of daily cash variation margin payments on the pricing of swaps, the DCO will charge interest on cumulative variation margin received and pay interest on cumulative variation margin paid
M
Other Payments
Includes any upfront and/or final/settlement payments made/received for the trade date. (Indicate gross pay/collect amounts.)
C
Universal (or Unique) Swap Identifier
Universal (or Unique) Swap Identifier (USI) namespace and USI. The USI namespace and the USI should be separated by a pipe “|” character
C
Leg Initial Exchange
Amount of any exchange of cash flow at initiation of trade being cleared
C
Leg Initial Exchange Date
Date that the initial exchange is set to occur
C
Leg Final Exchange
Amount of any exchange of cash flow at maturity of trade
C
Leg Final Exchange Date
Date that the final exchange is set to occur
C
Option Exercise Style
Exercise style
C
Option Type
Specifies the option type
C
Option Start Date
The option adjusted start date
C
Option Adjusted Expiration Date
The IRS swaption adjusted expiration date
C
Option Buy/Sell Indicator
Indicates the buyer or seller of a swap stream
C
Underlying Clearing Security Identifier
Code assigned by the DCO for the underlying contract
C
Underlying Unique Product Identifier
A unique set of characters that represents a particular swap. The Commission will designate a UPI pursuant to 17 CFR 45.7
C
Underlying Security Type
Indicator which identifies the underlying derivative
C
Underlying Asset Class
The underlying broad asset category for assessing risk exposure
C
Underlying Asset Subclass
The subcategory description of the asset class
C
Underlying Asset Type
Provides a more specific description of the asset subclass
C
Underlying Swap Class
The classification or type of swap
C
Underlying Swap Subclass
The sub-classification or notional schedule type of the swap
C
Underlying Security Description
Textual description of a financial instrument
C
Underlying Security Leg Type
Identifies if the leg is fixed or floating
C
Underlying Security Leg Notional
Notional amount associated with leg
C
Underlying Security Leg Currency
Currency of this leg's notional amount
C
Underlying Security Leg Index
If stream is floating rate, this gives the index applicable to the floating rate
C
Underlying Security Leg Index Tenor
For the floating rate leg, the tenor of the leg. For the fixed rate leg, NULL
C
Underlying Security Leg Fixed Rate Or Amount
Only populate if Leg1 is type “Fixed”. This should be in decimal form (
e.g.,
4% should be input as “.04”)
C
Underlying Security Leg Spread
Indicates whether there is a spread (typically an add-on) applied to the coupon rate
C
DELTA
Delta is the measure of how the option's value varies with changes in the underlying price
M
GAMMA
Gamma is the rate of change for delta with respect to the underlying asset's price
M
RHO
Rho measures the sensitivity of an option's price to a variation in the risk-free interest rate
M
THETA
Theta is the rate at which an option loses value as time passes
M
VEGA
Vega is the measurement of an option's sensitivity to changes in the volatility of the underlying asset
M
Option Premium
Premium registered on the given trading date. The amount of money that the options buyer must pay the options seller
C
Option Premium Date
Date option premium is paid
C
Trade Date
Date a transaction was originally executed, resulting in the generation of a new USI. For clearing swaps, the date when the DCO accepts the original swap
M
Event Description
Description for each position record
C
Forward Rate Agreements (Daily Position Reporting)
Previous Business Date
Previous business date
M
Position Status
Position status: active or terminated. Terminated positions should only be reported on the day of termination
M
DCO Pays Indicator
Indicates which cash flow the DCO pays
M
DCO Receives Indicator
Indicates which cash flow the DCO receives
M
Clearing Participant Pays Indicator
Indicates which cash flow the clearing member pays
M
Clearing Participant Receives Indicator
Indicates which cash flow the clearing member receives
M
Clearing Security Identifier
Code assigned by the DCO for a particular contract
M
Unique Product Identifier
A unique set of characters that represents a particular swap. The Commission will designate a UPI pursuant to 17 CFR 45.7
O
Security Type
Registered commodity clearing identifier
M
Asset Class
The broad asset category for assessing risk exposure
M
Asset Subclass
The subcategory description of the asset class
C
Asset Type
Provides a more specific description of the asset subclass
C
FRA Type
Type of swap stream
M
Notional Amount
Stream notional amount
M
Notional Currency
Currency of leg notional amount
M
Start Date
Date the position was established
M
Maturity Date
The date on which the principal amount becomes due
M
Payment Day Count Convention
Defines how interest is accrued/calculated
M
Payment Accrual Days
Number of accrual days between the effective date and maturity date
M
First Payment Date
Date on which the payment is made. Always report the adjusted date
C
Reset Date Bus Day Convention
Business day convention to apply to each fixing date if the fixing date falls on a holiday
M
Reset Date Fixing Date
Date on which the payment is fixed. Always report the adjusted date
M
Fixed Rate
The fixed amount in decimal terms
M
Float Index
The index for the floating portion of the Forward Rate Agreement (FRA)
M
Float First Tenor
First tenor associated with the index
M
Float Second Tenor
Second tenor associated with the index
C
Float Spread
In basis point terms
M
Float Reference Rate
The fixed floating rate in decimal terms
M
PV01
Change in value in native currency if the relevant pricing curve is shifted up by 1 basis point
M
Dollar Value of Basis Point (DV01)
Change in value in USD if the relevant pricing curve is shifted up by 1 basis point. DV01 = “dollar” value of a basis point in currency (not percentage) terms, the change in fair value of the leg, transaction, position, or portfolio (as appropriate) commensurate with a 1 basis point (0.01 percent) instantaneous, hypothetical increase in the related zero-coupon curves. DV01 may refer to non-dollar currencies and related curves. From the DCO's point of view: positive DV01 = profit/gain resulting from 1 basis point increase, negative DV01 = loss resulting from 1 basis point increase
M
Net Present Value
Net present value (NPV) of all positions by currency
M
Settlement FX Info
Settlement price foreign exchange conversion rate
M
Net Present Value Previous
Previous day's NPV by currency
M
Price Alignment Interest
To minimize the impact of daily cash variation margin payments on the pricing of swaps, the DCO will charge interest on cumulative variation margin received and pay interest on cumulative variation margin paid
M
Universal (or Unique) Swap Identifier
Universal (or Unique) Swap Identifier (USI) namespace and USI. The USI namespace and the USI should be separated by a pipe “|” character
C
Settlement Amount
The amount paid/received on the Payment Date. Always report adjusted date. (The position pays on a negative amount.)
M
Other Payments
Includes any upfront and/or final/settlement payments made/received for the trade date. (Indicate gross pay/collect amounts.)
C
Net Cash Flow
Net cash flow recognized on report date (with actual settlements occurring according to the currency's settlement conventions).
E.g.,
profit/loss, price alignment interest, cash payments (fees, coupons, etc.)
C
Profit/Loss
Profit/Loss resulting from changes in value due to changes in underlying curve movements or floating index rate resets. Should exclude impacts to NPVs from extraneous cash flows (price alignment interest, fees, and coupons)
C
Present Value of Other Payments
Includes the present value of any upfront and/or final/settlement payments that will be settled after the report date. Only include amounts that are affecting the NPV of current trades
C
Trade Date
Actual trade date for each position record (including specifically, the cleared date and the trade date)
M
Event Description
Description for each position record
C
Inflation Index Swaps (Daily Position Reporting)
Cleared Date
Date on which the trade was cleared at the DCO
M
Position Status
Position's status: active or terminated. Terminated positions should only be reported on the day of termination
M
DCO Pays Indicator
Indicate which cash flow the DCO pays
M
DCO Receives Indicator
Indicate which cash flow the DCO receives
M
Clearing Participant Pays Indicator
Indicate which cash flow the clearing member pays
M
Clearing Participant Receives Indicator
Indicate which cash flow the clearing member receives
M
Clearing Security Identifier
Code assigned by the DCO for a particular contract
M
Unique Product Identifier
A unique set of characters that represents a particular swap. The Commission will designate a UPI pursuant to 17 CFR 45.7
O
Security Type
Registered commodity clearing identifier
M
Asset Class
The broad asset category for assessing risk exposure
M
Asset Subclass
The subcategory description of the asset class
C
Asset Type
Provides a more specific description of the asset subclass
C
Swap Class
The classification or type of swap
M
Swap Subclass
The sub-classification or notional schedule type of the swap
C
Security Description
Used to provide a textual description of a financial instrument
M
Leg Type
Identifies if the leg is fixed or floating
M
Leg Notional
Notional amount associated with leg
M
Leg Notional Currency
Currency of the leg's notional amount
M
Leg Start Date Adj Bus Day Conv
If start date falls on a weekend or holiday, value defines how to adjust actual start date
C
Leg Start Date
Leg's effective date
M
Leg Maturity Date Adj Bus Day Conv
If the maturity date falls on a weekend or holiday, value defines how to adjust actual maturity date
C
Leg Maturity Date
The date on which the leg's principal amount becomes due
M
Leg Maturity Date Adj Calendar
Regarding the maturity date, this specifies which dates are considered holidays
C
Leg Calc Per Adj Bus Day Conv
If a date defining the calculation period falls on a holiday, this adjusts the actual dates based on the definition of the input
C
Leg Calc Frequency
Calculation frequency, also known as the compounding frequency for compounded swaps
M
Leg Roll Conv
Describes the day of the month when the payment is made
C
Leg Calc Per Adj Calendar
Regarding the calculation period, this specifies which dates are considered holidays
C
Leg Stream Daycount
Defines how interest is accrued/calculated
M
Payment Stream Comp Method
If payments are made on one timeframe but calculations are made on a shorter timeframe, this describes how to compound interest
C
Payment Stream Business Day Conv
If cash flow pay or receive date falls on a weekend or holiday, value defines actual date payment is made
C
Payment Stream Frequency
Frequency at which payments are made
M
Payment Stream Relative To
Specifies the anchor date when the payment date is relative to that date
C
Payment Stream First Date
The unadjusted first payment date
C
Payment Stream Last Regular Date
The unadjusted last regular payment date
C
Payment Leg Calendar
Regarding dates on which cash flow payments/receipts are scheduled, this specifies which dates are considered holidays
C
Leg Reset Date Bus Day Conv
Business day convention to apply to each reset date if the reset date falls on a holiday
C
Leg Reset Date Relative To
Specifies the anchor date when reset date is relative to that date
C
Leg Reset Frequency
Frequency at which resets occur. If the Leg Reset Frequency is greater than the calculation per frequency, more than 1 reset date should be established for each calculation per frequency and some form of rate averaging is applicable
C
Leg Reset Fixing Date Offset
Specifies the fixing date relative to the reset date in terms of a business days offset
C
Leg Fixing Day Type
The type of days to use to find the fixing date (
i.e.,
business days, calendar days, etc.)
C
Leg Reset Date Calendar
Regarding reset dates, this specifies which dates are considered holidays
C
Leg Fixing Date Bus Day Conv
Business day convention to apply to each fixing date if the fixing date falls on a holiday
C
Leg Fixing Date Calendar
Regarding the fixing date, this specifies which dates are considered holidays
C
Fixed Leg Rate or Amount
Only populate if Leg1 is Type “Fixed”. This should be expressed in decimal form (
e.g.,
4% should be input as .04)
C
Floating Leg Inflation Index
If leg is floating rate, this gives the index applicable to the floating rate
C
Floating Leg Spread
Describes if there is a spread (typically an add-on) applied to the coupon rate
C
Floating Leg Payment Inflation Lag
Number of business days after payment due date on which the payment is actually made
C
Floating Leg Payment Inflation Interpolation Method
The method used when calculating the inflation index level from multiple points. The most common is the linear method
C
Floating Leg Inflation Index Initial Level
Initial known index level for the first calculation period
C
Floating Leg Inflation Index Fallback Bond Ind
Indicates whether a fallback bond as defined in the 2006 International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) Inflation Derivatives Definitions, sections 1.3 and 1.8, is applicable or not. If not specified, the default value is “Y” (True/Yes)
O
Leg Pmt Sched Notional
Variable notional swap notional values
C
Leg Stub Type
Stubs apply to initial or ending periods that are shorter than the usual interval between payments
C
Leg Initial Stub Fixed Rate
The interest rate applicable to the Initial Stub Period in decimal form (
e.g.,
4% should be input as “.04”)
C
Leg Final Stub Fixed Rate
The interest rate applicable to the final stub period in decimal form (
e.g.,
4% should be input as “.04”)
C
Leg Initial Stub Floating Rate Index 1 Tenor
Stub rate can be a linear interpolation between two floating rate tenors.
E.g.,
if the stub period is 2 months, rate is linear interpolation of 1-month and 3-month reference rates. Specify the first index
C
Leg Initial Stub Floating Rate Index 2 Tenor
Stub rate can be a linear interpolation between two floating rate tenors.
E.g.,
if the stub period is 2 months, rate is linear interpolation of 1-month and 3-month reference rates. Specify the second index
C
Leg Final Stub Floating Rate Index 1 Tenor
Stub rate can be a linear interpolation between two floating rate tenors.
E.g.,
if the stub period is 2 months, rate is linear interpolation of 1-month and 3-month reference rates. Specify the first index
C
Leg Final Stub Rate Floating Index 2 Tenor
Stub rate can be a linear interpolation between two floating rate tenors.
E.g.,
if the stub period is 2 months, rate is linear interpolation of 1-month and 3-month reference rates. Specify the second index
C
Leg First Reg Per Start Date
If there is a beginning stub, this describes the date when the usual payment periods will begin
C
Leg Last Reg Per End Date
If there is an ending stub, this describes the date when the usual payment periods will end
C
Leg Accrued Interest (Coupon)
The net accrued coupon amount since the last payment in the leg currency. If reported by leg, indicate the associated stream (leg) description (
e.g.,
“FIXED/FLOAT,” “FLOAT1/FLOAT2”)
M
Profit/Loss
Profit/Loss resulting from changes in value due to changes in underlying curve movements or floating index rate resets. This should exclude impacts to NPVs from extraneous cash flows (price alignment interest, fees, and coupons)
M
Leg Coupon Amount
Coupon amount for T + 1 in the leg currency. This should reflect the net cash flow that will actually occur on the following business day. A negative number indicates payment was made
M
Leg Current Period Coupon Rate
If leg is a floating leg, this indicates the current rate used to calculate the next floating leg coupon in decimal form (
e.g.,
4% should be input as “.04”)
M
I01
Change in value in native currency if the relevant pricing curve is shifted up by 1 basis point
M
Dollar Value of Basis Point (DV01)
Change in value in native currency of the swap/swaption/floor/cap if relevant pricing curve is shifted up by 1 basis point. DV01 = “dollar” value of a basis point in currency (not percentage) terms, the change in fair value of the leg, transaction, position, or portfolio (as appropriate) commensurate with a 1 basis point (0.01 percent) instantaneous, hypothetical increase in the related zero-coupon curves. DV01 may refer to non-dollar currencies and related curves. From the DCO's point of view: positive DV01 = profit/gain resulting from 1 basis point increase, negative DV01 = loss resulting from 1 basis point increase
M
Net Cash Flow
Net cash flow recognized on report date (with actual settlements occurring according to the currency's settlement conventions).
E.g.,
profit/loss, price alignment interest, cash payments (fees, coupons, etc.)
M
Net Present Value
Net present value (NPV) of all positions by currency
M
Present Value Of Other Payments
Includes the present value of any upfront and/or final/settlement payments that will be settled after the report date. Only include amounts that are affecting the NPV of current trades
M
Net Present Value Previous
Previous day's NPV by currency
C
Price Alignment Interest
To minimize the impact of daily cash variation margin payments on the pricing of swaps, the DCO will charge interest on cumulative variation margin received and pay interest on cumulative variation margin paid
M
Universal or Unique) Swap Identifier
Universal (or Unique) Swap Identifier (USI) namespace and USI. Enter the USI Namespace and the USI separated by a pipe “|” character.
C
Stream Initial Exchange
Amount of any exchange of cash flow at initiation of trade being cleared
C
Stream Initial Exchange Date
Date that the initial exchange is set to occur
C
Stream Final Exchange
Amount of any exchange of cash flow at maturity of trade
C
Stream Final Exchange Date
Date that the final exchange is set to occur
C
Other Payments
Includes any upfront and/or final/settlement payments made/received for the trade date. (Indicate gross pay/collect amounts.)
C
Trade Date
Actual trade date for each position record (including specifically, the cleared date and the trade date)
M
Event Description
Description for each position record
C
Equity Cross Margin (Daily Position Reporting)
Exchange Security Identifier
Contract code issued by the exchange
M
Clearing Security Identifier
Code assigned by the DCO for a particular contract
M
Product Type
Indicates the type of product the security is associated with
C
Security Type
Indicates type of security
M
Maturity Month Year
Month and year of the maturity
M
Maturity Date
The date on which the principal amount becomes due. For NDFs, this represents the fixing date of the contract
C
Asset Class
The broad asset category for assessing risk exposure
M
Asset Subclass
The subcategory description of the asset class
C
Asset Type
Provides a more specific description of the asset subclass
C
Security Description
Used to provide a textual description of a financial instrument
M
Position (Long)
Long position size. If a position is quoted in a unit of measure (UOM) different from the contract, specify the UOM. If a position is measured in a currency, specify the currency
M
Position (Short)
Short position size. If a position is quoted in a UOM different from the contract, specify the UOM. If a position is measured in a currency, specify the currency
M
Settlement Price/Currency
Settlement price, prior settlement price, settlement currency, and final settlement date
M
Option Strike Price
Option strike price
C
Option Put/Call Indicator
Option type
C
Underlying Exchange Commodity Code
Underlying Contract code issued by the exchange
C
Underlying Clearing Commodity Code
Registered commodity clearing identifier. The code is for the contract as if it were traded in the form it is cleared. For example, if the contract was traded as a spread but cleared as an outright, the outright symbol should be used
C
Underlying Product Type
Indicates the type of product the security is associated with
C
Underlying Security Type
Indicator which identifies the underlying derivative
C
Underlying Maturity Month Year
Month and year of the maturity
C
Underlying Maturity Date
The date on which the principal amount becomes due
C
Underlying Asset Class
The underlying broad asset category for assessing risk exposure
C
Underlying Asset Subclass
The subcategory description of the asset class
C
Underlying Asset Type
Provides a more specific description of the asset subclass
C
Underlying Settlement Price/Currency
Settlement price, prior settlement price, settlement currency, and final settlement date
C
M = mandatory C = conditional O = optional.

# C. Risk Metric Ladder Reporting
Field name
Description
Use
Common Fields (Risk Metric Ladder Reporting)
Total Message Count
The total number of reports included in the file
M
FIXML Message Type
FIXML account summary report type
M
Sender ID
The CFTC-issued DCO identifier
M
To ID
Indicate “CFTC”
M
Message Transmit Datetime
The date and time the file is transmitted
M
Report ID
A unique identifier assigned by the CFTC to each clearing member report
M
Report Date
The business date of the information being reported
M
Base Currency
Base currency referenced throughout report; provide exchange rate against this currency
M
Report Time (Message Create Time)
The report “as of” or information cut-off time
M
Message Event
The event source being reported
M
Ladder Indicator
Indicator that identifies the type of risk metric ladder
M
DCO Identifier
CFTC-assigned identifier for a DCO
M
Clearing Participant Identifier
DCO-assigned identifier for a particular clearing member
M
Clearing Participant Name
The name of the clearing member
M
Fund Segregation Type
Clearing fund segregation type
M
Clearing Participant LEI
LEI for a particular clearing member
M
Clearing Participant LEI Name
The LEI name associated with the clearing member LEI
M
Customer Identifier
Proprietary identifier for a particular customer position account
C
Customer Name
The name associated with the customer position identifier
C
Customer Account Type
Type of account used for reporting
C
Customer LEI
LEI for a particular customer; provide if available
C
Customer LEI Name
The LEI name associated with the customer position LEI
C
Unique Margin Identifier
A single field that uniquely identifies the margin account. This field us used to identify associated positions
C
Delta Ladder (Daily Reporting)
Currency
ISO 4217 currency code
M
FX Rate
Rate used to convert the currency to USD
M
Curve Name
Name of the reference curve
M
Tenor
Number of days from the report date
M
Sensitivity
Theoretical profit and loss with a single upward basis point shift
M
Gamma Ladder (Daily Reporting)
Currency
ISO 4217 currency code
M
FX Rate
Rate used to convert the currency to USD
M
Curve Name
Name of the reference curve
M
Tenor
Number of days from the report date
M
Sensitivity
Theoretical profit and loss with a single upward basis point shift
M
Vega Ladder (Daily Reporting)
Currency
ISO 4217 currency code
M
FX Rate
Rate used to convert the currency to USD
M
Curve Name
Name of the reference curve
M
Tenor
Number of days from the report date
M
Sensitivity
Theoretical profit and loss with a single upward basis point shift
M
M = mandatory C = conditional O = optional.

# D. Curve Reference Reporting
Field name
Description
Use
Common Fields (Curve Reference Reporting)
Total Message Count
The total number of reports included in the file
M
FIXML Message Type
FIXML account summary report type
M
Sender ID
The CFTC-issued DCO identifier
M
To ID
Indicate “CFTC”
M
Message Transmit Datetime
The date and time the file is transmitted
M
Report ID
A unique identifier assigned by the CFTC to each clearing member report
M
Report Date
The business date of the information being reported
M
Base Currency
Base currency referenced throughout report; provide exchange rate against this currency
M
Report Time (Message Create Time)
The report “as of” or information cut-off time
M
Message Event
The event source being reported
M
DCO Identifier
CFTC-assigned identifier for a DCO
M
Currency Curve (Daily Reporting)
Curve
Reference curve name
M
Currency
ISO 4217 currency code
M
Maturity Date
The date on which the principal amount becomes due
M
Par Rate
Rate such that the maturity will pay in order to sell at par today
M
Zero Rate Curve (Daily Reporting)
Currency
ISO 4217 currency code
M
Curve
Reference curve name
M
Maturity Date
The date on which the principal amount becomes due
M
Offset
The difference in days between the maturity date and reporting date
M
Accrual Factor
The difference in years between the maturity date and reporting date
M
Discount Factor
Value used to compute the present value of future cash flows values
M
Zero Rate
Averages of the one-period forward rates up to their maturity
M
M = mandatory C = conditional O = optional.

# E. Backtesting Reporting
Field name
Description
Use
Common Fields (Backtesting Reporting)
Total Message Count
The total number of reports included in the file
M
FIXML Message Type
FIXML account summary report type
M
Sender ID
The CFTC-issued DCO identifier
M
To ID
Indicate “CFTC”
M
Message Transmit Datetime
The date and time the file is transmitted
M
Report ID
A unique identifier assigned by the CFTC to each clearing member report
M
Report Date
The business date of the information being reported
M
Base Currency
Base currency referenced throughout report; provide exchange rate against this currency
M
Report Time (Message Create Time)
The report “as of” or information cut-off time
M
Message Event
The event source being reported
M
Breach Indicator
Indicates the breach file
M
DCO Identifier
CFTC-assigned identifier for a DCO
M
Clearing Participant Identifier
DCO-assigned identifier for a particular clearing member
M
Clearing Participant Name
The name of the clearing member
M
Fund Segregation Type
Clearing fund segregation type
M
Clearing Participant LEI
LEI for a particular clearing member
M
Clearing Participant LEI Name
The LEI name associated with the clearing member LEI
M
Customer Identifier
Proprietary identifier for a particular customer position account
C
Customer Name
The name associated with the customer position identifier
C
Customer Account Type
Type of account used for reporting
C
Customer LEI
LEI for a particular customer; provide if available
C
Customer LEI Name
The LEI name associated with the customer position LEI
C
Unique Margin Identifier
A single field that uniquely identifies the margin account. This field us used to identify associated positions
C
Breach Details (Daily Reporting)
Initial Margin
Margin requirement calculated by the DCO's margin methodology. Unless an integral part of the margin methodology, this figure should not include any additional margin add-ons
M
Backtesting Metric
Indicates the type of profit and loss calculation used for backtesting:
• VM—Variation Margin
• STATIC—Static Portfolio P/L (Clean P/L)
• DIRTY—Dirty P/L
• MTMA—Mark to Market P/L
• MTMO—Mark to Model P/L
• OTHER
M
Backtesting Metric Amount
Amount on the positions for which Initial Margin is computed
M
Breach Amount
Difference between the Initial Margin and Backtesting Metric Amount
M
Margin Period of Risk
Holding period for which the Backtesting Metric is calculated in days
M
Breach Summary (Daily Reporting)
Total Instance
Total number of testing dates for the account
M
Number of Breaches
Total number of breaches in the testing period
M
Test Range Start
Beginning date of the test
M
Test Range End
End date of the test
M
M = mandatory C = conditional O = optional.

# F. Manifest Reporting
Field name
Description
Use
Manifest Reporting
Total Message Count
The total number of reports included in the file
M
FIXML Message Type
FIXML account summary report type
M
Sender ID
The CFTC-issued DCO identifier
M
To ID
Indicate “CFTC”
M
Message Transmit Datetime
The date and time the file is transmitted
M
Filenames
List of files to be sent
M
M = mandatory C = conditional O = optional.
[88 FR 53684, Aug. 8, 2023]
Pt. 40

# PART 40—PROVISIONS COMMON TO REGISTERED ENTITIES
Sec.
40.1
Definitions.
40.2
Listing products for trading by certification.
40.3
Voluntary submission of new products for Commission review and approval.
40.4
Amendments to terms or conditions of enumerated agricultural products.
40.5
Voluntary submission of rules for Commission review and approval.
40.6
Self-certification of rules.
40.7
Delegations.
40.8
Availability of public information.
40.9
[Reserved]
40.10
Special certification procedures for submission of rules by systemically important derivatives clearing organizations.
40.11
Review of event contracts based upon certain excluded commodities.
40.12
Staying of certification and tolling of review period pending jurisdictional determination.
Appendix A to Part 40—Schedule of Fees
Appendixes B-C to Part 40 [Reserved]
Appendix D to Part 40—Submission Instructions for Rules and Products
Appendix E to Part 40—Guidance on Compliance With the Materiality Assessment in § 40.4

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1a, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 12, as amended by Titles VII and VIII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Public Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).

# Source:
76 FR 44790, July 27, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 40.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Business day
means the intraday period of time starting at 8:15 a.m. and ending at 4:45 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Savings Time, whichever is currently in effect in Washington, DC, on all days except Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays in Washington, DC.
Dormant designated contract market
means any designated contract market on which no trading has occurred for a period of 365 days;
provided, however,
no designated contract market shall be considered dormant if its initial and original Commission order of designation was issued within the preceding 1,095 days.
Dormant derivatives clearing organization
means any derivatives clearing organization registered pursuant to section 5b of the Act that has not accepted for clearing any agreement, contract or transaction that is required or permitted to be cleared by a derivatives clearing organization under sections 5b(a) and 5b(b) of the Act, respectively, for a period of 365 days;
provided, however,
no derivatives clearing organization shall be considered dormant if its initial and original Commission order of registration was issued within the preceding 1,095 days.
Dormant swap data repository
means any registered swap data repository on which no data has resided for a period of 365 days.
Dormant swap execution facility
means any swap execution facility on which no trading has occurred for a period of 365 days;
provided, however,
no swap execution facility shall be considered dormant if its initial and original Commission order of registration was issued within the preceding 1,095 days.
Emergency
means any occurrence or circumstance that, in the opinion of the governing board of a registered entity, or a person or persons duly authorized to issue such an opinion on behalf of the governing board of a registered entity under circumstances and pursuant to procedures that are specified by rule, requires immediate action and threatens or may threaten such things as the fair and orderly trading in, or the liquidation of or delivery pursuant to, any agreements, contracts, swaps or transactions or the timely collection and payment of funds in connection with clearing and settlement by a derivatives clearing organization, including:
(1) Any manipulative or attempted manipulative activity;
(2) Any actual, attempted, or threatened corner, squeeze, congestion, or undue concentration of positions;
(3) Any circumstances which may materially affect the performance of agreements, contracts, swaps or transactions, including failure of the payment system or the bankruptcy or insolvency of any participant;
(4) Any action taken by any governmental body, or any other registered entity, board of trade, market or facility which may have a direct impact on trading or clearing and settlement; and
(5) Any other circumstance which may have a severe, adverse effect upon the functioning of a registered entity.
Rule
means any constitutional provision, article of incorporation, bylaw, rule, regulation, resolution, interpretation, stated policy, advisory, terms and conditions, trading protocol, margin methodology, agreement or instrument corresponding thereto, including those that authorize a response or establish standards for responding to a specific emergency, and any amendment or addition thereto or repeal thereof, made or issued by a registered entity or by the governing board thereof or any committee thereof, in whatever form adopted.
Terms and conditions
means any definition of the trading unit or the specific commodity underlying a contract for the future delivery of a commodity or commodity option contract, description of the payments to be exchanged under a swap, specification of cash settlement or delivery standards and procedures, and establishment of buyers' and sellers' rights and obligations under the swap or contract. Terms and conditions include provisions relating to the following:
(1) For a contract for the purchase or sale of a commodity for future delivery or an option on such a contract or an option on a commodity (other than a swap):
(i) Quality and other standards that define the commodity or instrument underlying the contract;
(ii) Quantity standards or other provisions related to contract size;
(iii) Any applicable premiums or discounts for delivery of nonpar products;
(iv) Trading hours, trading months and the listing of contracts;
(v) The pricing basis, minimum price fluctuations, and maximum price fluctuations;
(vi) Any price limits, no cancellation ranges, trading halts, or circuit breaker provisions, and procedures for the establishment of daily settlement prices;
(vii) Speculative position limits, position accountability standards, and position reporting requirements, including an indication as to whether the contract meets the definition of a referenced contract as defined in § 150.1 of this chapter, and if so, the name of either the core referenced futures contract or other referenced contract upon which the new referenced contract submitted under this part is based.
(viii) Delivery points and locational price differentials;
(ix) Delivery standards and procedures, including fees related to delivery or the delivery process; alternatives to delivery and applicable penalties or sanctions for failure to perform;
(x) If cash settled; the definition, composition, calculation and revision of the cash settlement price or index;
(xi) [Reserved];
(xii) Option exercise price, if it is constant, and method for calculating the exercise price, if it is variable;
(xiii) Threshold prices for an option contract, the existence of which is contingent upon those prices; and
(xiv) Any restrictions or requirements for exercising an option; and
(2) For a swap:
(i) Identification of the major group, category, type or class in which the swap falls (such as an interest rate, commodity, credit or equity swap) and of any further sub-group, category, type or class that further describes the swap;
(ii) Notional amounts, quantity standards, or other unit size characteristics;
(iii) Any applicable premiums or discounts for delivery of nonpar products;
(iv) Trading hours and the listing of swaps;
(v) Pricing basis for establishing the payment obligations under, and mark-to-market value of, the swap including,
as applicable, the accrual start dates, termination or maturity dates, and, for each leg of the swap, the initial cash flow components, spreads, and points, and the relevant indexes, prices, rates, coupons, or other price reference measures;
(vi) Any price limits, trading halts, or circuit breaker provisions, and procedures for the establishment of daily settlement prices;
(vii) Speculative position limits, position accountability standards, and position reporting requirements, including an indication as to whether the contract meets the definition of economically equivalent swap as defined in § 150.1 of this chapter, and, if so, the name of either the core referenced futures contract or referenced contract, as applicable, to which the swap submitted under this part is economically equivalent.
(viii) Payment and reset frequency, day count conventions, business calendars, and accrual features;
(ix) If physical delivery applies, delivery standards and procedures, including fees related to delivery or the delivery process, alternatives to delivery and applicable penalties or sanctions for failure to perform;
(x) If cash settled, the definition, composition, calculation and revision of the cash settlement price, and the settlement currency;
(xi) [Reserved]
(xii) Option exercise price, if it is constant, and method for calculating the exercise price, if it is variable;
(xiii) Threshold prices for an option, the existence of which is contingent upon those prices;
(xiv) Any restrictions or requirements for exercising an option; and
(xv) Life cycle events.
[89 FR 88622, Nov. 7, 2024]
§ 40.2
Listing products for trading by certification.
(a)
Submission requirements.
A designated contract market or a swap execution facility must comply with the submission requirements of this section prior to listing a product for trading that has not been approved under § 40.3. A submission shall comply with the following conditions:
(1) The designated contract market or the swap execution facility has filed its submission electronically in a format and manner specified by the Commission;
(2) The Commission has received the submission by the open of business on the business day preceding the product's listing; and
(3) The submission includes:
(i) The information required by appendix D to this part;
(ii) A copy of the rules that set forth the contract's terms and conditions;
(iii) The intended listing date;
(iv) A certification by the designated contract market or the swap execution facility that the product to be listed complies with the Act and Commission regulations thereunder;
(v) A concise explanation and analysis that is complete with respect to the product's terms and conditions, the underlying commodity, and the product's compliance with applicable provisions of the Act, including core principles, and the Commission's regulations thereunder. This explanation and analysis shall either be accompanied by the documentation relied upon to establish the basis for compliance with applicable law, or incorporate information contained in such documentation, with appropriate citations to data sources;
(vi) A certification that the registered entity posted a notice of a pending product certification with the Commission and a copy of the submission, concurrent with the filing of a submission with the Commission, on the registered entity's website. Information that the registered entity seeks to keep confidential may be redacted from the documents published on the registered entity's website but must be republished consistent with any determination made pursuant to § 40.8(c)(4); and
(vii) A request for confidential treatment, if appropriate, as permitted under § 40.8.
(b)
Additional information.
If requested by Commission staff, a registered entity shall provide any additional evidence, information or data that demonstrates that the contract meets, initially or on a continuing basis, the requirements of the Act or
the Commission's regulations or policies thereunder.
(c)
Stay.
The Commission may stay the listing of a contract pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section during the pendency of Commission proceedings for filing a false certification or during the pendency of a petition to alter or amend the contract terms and conditions pursuant to Section 8a(7) of the Act. The decision to stay the listing of a contract in such circumstances shall not be delegable to any employee of the Commission.
(d)
Class certification of swaps.
(1) A designated contract market or swap execution facility may list or facilitate trading in any swap or number of swaps based upon an “excluded commodity,” as defined in section 1a(19)(i) of the Act, not including any security, security index, and currency other than the United States Dollar and a “major foreign currency,” as defined in § 15.03(a) of this chapter, or an “excluded commodity,” as defined in section 1a(19)(ii)-(iv) of the Act, provided the designated contract market or swap execution facility certifies, under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) and (a)(3)(i), (iv), and (vi) of this section, the following:
(i) Each particular swap within the certified class of swaps is based upon an excluded commodity specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section;
(ii) Each particular swap within the certified class of swaps is based upon an excluded commodity with an identical pricing source, formula, procedure, and methodology for calculating reference prices and payment obligations;
(iii) The pricing source, formula, procedure, and methodology for calculating reference prices and payment obligations in each particular swap within the certified class of swaps is identical to a pricing source, formula, procedure, and methodology for calculating reference prices and payment obligations in a product previously submitted to the Commission and certified or approved pursuant to this section or § 40.3; and
(iv) Each particular swap within the certified class of swaps is based upon an excluded commodity involving an identical currency or identical currencies.
(2) The Commission may in its discretion require a registered entity to withdraw its certification under paragraph (d)(1) of this section and to submit each individual swap or certain individual swaps within the submission for Commission review pursuant to this section or § 40.3.
[76 FR 44790, July 27, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 88623, Nov. 7, 2024; 89 FR 96897, Dec. 6, 2024]
§ 40.3
Voluntary submission of new products for Commission review and approval.
(a)
Request for approval.
Pursuant to section 5c(c) of the Act, a designated contract market, a swap execution facility, or a derivatives clearing organization may request that the Commission approve a new product prior to listing the product for trading or accepting the product for clearing, or if a product was initially submitted under § 40.2 or § 39.5 of this chapter, subsequent to listing the product for trading or accepting the product for clearing. A submission requesting approval shall:
(1) Be filed electronically in a format and manner specified by the Commission;
(2) Include the information required by appendix D to this part;
(3) Include a copy of the rules that set forth the contract's terms and conditions;
(4) Include an explanation and analysis that is complete with respect to the product's terms and conditions, the underlying commodity, and the product's compliance with applicable provisions of the Act, including core principles, and the Commission's regulations thereunder. This explanation and analysis shall either be accompanied by the documentation relied upon to establish the basis for compliance with the applicable law, or incorporate information contained in such documentation, with appropriate citations to data sources;
(5) Describe any agreements or contracts entered into with other parties that enable the registered entity to carry out its responsibilities;
(6) Include the certifications required in § 41.22 for product approval of a commodity that is a security future or a security futures product as defined in
Sections 1a(44) or 1a(45) of the Act, respectively;
(7) Include, if appropriate, a request for confidential treatment as permitted under § 40.8;
(8) Include the filing fee required under appendix A to this part;
(9) Certify that the registered entity posted a notice of its request for Commission approval of the new product and a copy of the submission, concurrent with the filing of a submission with the Commission, on the registered entity's website. Information the registered entity seeks to keep confidential may be redacted from the documents published on the registered entity's website but must be republished consistent with any determination made pursuant to § 40.8(c)(4); and
(10) Include, if requested by Commission staff, additional evidence, information or data demonstrating that the contract meets, initially or on a continuing basis, the requirements of the Act, or other requirement for designation or registration under the Act, or the Commission's regulations or policies thereunder. The registered entity shall submit the requested information by the time specified by Commission staff, or at the conclusion of any extended period agreed to by Commission staff after timely receipt of a written request from the registered entity.
(b)
Standard for review and approval.
The Commission shall approve a new product unless the terms and conditions of the product violate the Act or the Commission's regulations.
(c)
Commission review.
(1) All products submitted for Commission approval pursuant to, and in compliance with the submission requirements of, paragraph (a) of this section shall be subject to review by the Commission for a period of 45 days after receipt by the Commission.
(2) The Commission may extend the initial 45-day review period for up to an additional 45 days if the product raises novel or complex issues that require additional time to analyze, the submission is incomplete or the requestor does not respond completely to Commission questions in a timely manner, in which case the Commission shall notify the submitting registered entity within the initial 45-day review period and shall briefly describe the nature of the specific issues for which additional time for review shall be required.
(3) At any time during its review of a proposed product under this section, the Commission may extend the review period for any period of time to which the registered entity agrees in writing.
(4) Any amendment or supplementation made by the registered entity to the submission will be treated as the filing of a new submission under this section and be subject to the initial 45-day review period in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless the amendment or supplementation is requested by the Commission or is made for correction of typographical errors, renumbering or other non-substantive revisions.
(5) If the review period described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section would end on a day that is not a business day, such review period shall instead be extended to end on the next business day.
(d)
Commission Determination
—(1)
Approval.
Any product submitted for Commission approval in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed approved by the Commission under section 5c(c) of the Act at the conclusion of the applicable review period under paragraph (c) of this section, unless the Commission issues a notice of non-approval to the registered entity under paragraph (d)(2) of this section within the applicable review period.
(2)
Notice of non-approval.
Any time during its review under this section, the Commission may notify the registered entity that it will not, or is unable to, approve the new product. This notification will briefly specify the nature of the issues raised and the specific provision of the Act or the Commission's regulations, including the form or content requirements of this section, with which the new product is inconsistent or appears to be inconsistent with the Act or the Commission's regulations.
(e)
Effect of non-approval.
(1) Notification to a registered entity under paragraph (d)(2) of this section of the Commission's determination not to approve a product does not prevent the entity from subsequently submitting a revised version of the product for Commission
approval, or from submitting the product as initially proposed, in a supplemented submission; the revised or supplemented submission will be reviewed without prejudice.
(2) Notification to a registered entity under paragraph (d)(2) of this section of the Commission's determination not to approve a product shall be presumptive evidence that the entity may not truthfully certify under § 40.2 that the same, or substantially the same, product complies with the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder.
[76 FR 44790, July 27, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 88623, Nov. 7, 2024]
§ 40.4
Amendments to terms or conditions of enumerated agricultural products.
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of this part, a designated contract market must submit for Commission approval under the procedures of § 40.5, prior to its implementation, any rule that, for a delivery month having open interest, would materially change a product's term or condition, as defined in § 40.1, of a contract for future delivery in an agricultural commodity enumerated in section 1a(9) of the Act, or of an option on such a contract or commodity.
(b) The following rules or rule amendments are not material and are not required by this section to be submitted for Commission approval under the procedures of § 40.5:
(1) Rules or rule amendments that are enumerated in § 40.6(d)(2) may be implemented without prior approval or certification, provided that they are implemented pursuant to the notification procedures of § 40.6(d);
(2) Rules or rule amendments that are enumerated in § 40.6(e)(2) may be implemented without prior approval or certification or notification as permitted pursuant to § 40.6(e);
(3) Rules or rule amendments governing trading hours may be implemented without prior approval, provided that they are implemented pursuant to the procedures of sect; 40.6(a);
(4) Rules or rule amendments that are required to comply with a binding order of a court of competent jurisdiction, or a rule, regulation or order of the Commission or of another Federal regulatory authority, may be implemented without prior approval, provided that they are implemented pursuant to the procedures of § 40.6(a); or
(5) Any rule or rule amendment:
(i) The text of which has been submitted pursuant to the procedures of paragraph (b)(5) of this section and § 40.6(a) at least ten business days prior to its implementation and that has been labeled “Non-Material Agricultural Rule Change;”
(ii) For which the designated contract market has provided an explanation as to why it considers the rule “non-material,” and any other information that may be beneficial to the Commission in analyzing the merits of the entity's claim of non-materiality including, if applicable, a copy of a previously approved rule or rule amendment that is, in substance, the same as the non-material rule or rule amendment; and
(iii) With respect to which the Commission has not notified the contract market during the review period that the rule appears to require or does require prior approval under this section.
[89 FR 88624, Nov. 7, 2024]
§ 40.5
Voluntary submission of rules for Commission review and approval.
(a)
Request for approval of rules.
Pursuant to section 5c(c) of the Act, a registered entity may request that the Commission approve a new rule or rule amendment prior to implementation of the rule, or if the rule or rule amendment was initially submitted under § 40.2 or 40.6, subsequent to implementation of the rule. A request for approval shall:
(1) Be filed electronically in a format and manner specified by the Commission;
(2) Include the information required by appendix D to this part;
(3) Set forth the text of the rule or rule amendment (in the case of a rule amendment, deletions and additions must be indicated);
(4) Describe the proposed effective date of the rule or rule amendment and any action taken or anticipated to be taken to adopt the proposed rule by the registered entity or by its governing board or by any committee thereof,
and cite the rules of the entity that authorize the adoption of the proposed rule;
(5) Provide an explanation and analysis that is complete with respect to the operation, purpose, and effect of the proposed rule or rule amendment and its compliance with applicable provisions of the Act, including core principles, and the Commission's regulations thereunder, including, as applicable, a description of the anticipated benefits to market participants or others, any potential anticompetitive effects on market participants or others, and how the rule fits into the registered entity's framework of self-regulation;
(6) Certify that the registered entity posted a notice of its request for Commission approval of the new rule or rule amendment and a copy of the submission, concurrent with the filing of a submission with the Commission, on the registered entity's website. Information the registered entity seeks to keep confidential may be redacted from the documents published on the registered entity's website but must be republished consistent with any determination made pursuant to § 40.8(c)(4);
(7) Provide additional information which may be beneficial to the Commission in analyzing the new rule or rule amendment. If a proposed rule affects, directly or indirectly, the application of any other rule of the registered entity, the pertinent text of any such rule must be set forth and the anticipated effect described;
(8) Provide a brief explanation of any substantive opposing views expressed to the registered entity by governing board or committee members, members of the entity or market participants that were not incorporated into the rule, or a statement that no such opposing views were expressed;
(9) Identify any Commission regulation that the Commission may need to amend, or sections of the Act or the Commission's regulations that the Commission may need to interpret, in order to approve the new rule or rule amendment. To the extent that such an amendment or interpretation is necessary to accommodate a new rule or rule amendment, the submission should include a reasoned analysis supporting the amendment to the Commission's regulation or the interpretation; and
(10) As appropriate, include a request for confidential treatment as permitted under the procedures of § 40.8.
(b)
Standard for review and approval.
The Commission shall approve a new rule or rule amendment unless the rule or rule amendment is inconsistent with the Act or the Commission's regulations.
(c)
Commission review.
(1) Any rule submitted for Commission approval pursuant to, and in compliance with the submission requirements of, paragraph (a) of this section shall be subject to review by the Commission for a period of 45 days after receipt by the Commission.
(2) The Commission may extend the initial 45-day review period for up to an additional 45 days if the proposed rule raises novel or complex issues that require additional time for review or is of major economic significance, the submission is incomplete or the requestor does not respond completely to Commission questions in a timely manner, in which case the Commission shall notify the submitting registered entity within the initial 45-day review period and shall briefly describe the nature of the specific issues for which additional time for review shall be required.
(3) At any time during its review of a proposed rule under this section, the Commission may extend the review period for any period of time to which the registered entity agrees in writing.
(4) Any amendment or supplementation made by the registered entity to the submission will be treated as the filing of a new submission under this section and be subject to the initial 45-day review period in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless the amendment or supplementation is requested by the Commission or is made for correction of typographical errors, renumbering or other non-substantive revisions.
(5) If a rule or rule amendment that is submitted for Commission approval under paragraph (a) of this section is also submitted and labeled as a “Non-Material Agricultural Rule Change” in
accordance with § 40.4(b)(5), the Commission shall commence the 45-day review period in paragraph (c)(1) of this section ten business days after receiving the submission.
(6) If the review period described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section would end on a day that is not a business day, such review period shall instead be extended to end on the next business day.
(d)
Commission determination
—(1)
Approval.
Any rule submitted for Commission approval in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed approved by the Commission under section 5c(c) of the Act at the conclusion of the applicable review period under paragraph (c) of this section, unless the Commission issues a notice of non-approval to the registered entity under paragraph (d)(3) of this section within the applicable review period.
(2)
Expedited approval.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section, a proposed rule or rule amendment, including changes to terms and conditions of a product that are consistent with the Act and Commission regulations, may be approved by the Commission at such time and under such conditions as the Commission shall specify in a written notification.
(3)
Notice of non-approval.
Any time during its review under this section, the Commission may notify the registered entity that it will not, or is unable to, approve the new rule or rule amendment. This notification will briefly specify the nature of the issues raised and the specific provision of the Act or the Commission's regulations, including the form or content requirements of this section, with which the new rule or rule amendment is inconsistent or appears to be inconsistent with the Act or the Commission's regulations.
(e)
Effect of non-approval.
(1) Notification to a registered entity under paragraph (d)(3) of this section of the Commission's determination not to approve a new rule or rule amendment does not prevent the registered entity from subsequently submitting a revised version of the proposed rule or rule amendment for Commission review and approval, or from submitting the new rule or rule amendment as initially proposed, in a supplemented submission; the revised or supplemented submission will be reviewed without prejudice.
(2) Notification to a registered entity under paragraph (d)(3) of this section of the Commission's determination not to approve a proposed rule or rule amendment of a registered entity shall be presumptive evidence that the entity may not truthfully certify under § 40.6 that the same, or substantially the same, proposed rule or rule amendment complies with the Act and 17 CFR chapter I.
[76 FR 44790, July 27, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 88625, Nov. 7, 2024; 89 FR 96897, Dec. 6, 2024]
§ 40.6
Self-certification of rules.
(a)
Submission requirements.
A registered entity shall comply with the certification and submission requirements of this section prior to implementing any rule that has not obtained Commission approval under § 40.5, or that is submitted under § 40.10, except as otherwise provided by § 40.10(a). A submission shall comply with the following conditions:
(1) The registered entity has filed its submission electronically in a format and manner specified by the Commission.
(2) The registered entity has provided a certification that the registered entity posted a notice of pending certification with the Commission and a copy of the submission, concurrent with the filing of a submission with the Commission, on the registered entity's website. Information that the registered entity seeks to keep confidential may be redacted from the documents published on the registered entity's website but it must be republished consistent with any determination made pursuant to § 40.8(c)(4).
(3) The Commission has received the submission not later than the open of business on the business day that is 10 business days prior to the registered entity's implementation of the rule or rule amendment.
(4) The Commission has not stayed the submission pursuant to § 40.6(c).
(5) The rule or rule amendment is not a rule or rule amendment of a designated contract market that materially changes a term or condition of a contract for future delivery of an agricultural commodity enumerated in section 1a(9) of the Act or an option on such a contract or commodity in a delivery month having open interest.
(6) Rule certifications implemented in response to an emergency.
(i) Rules or rule amendments implemented under procedures of the governing board to respond to an emergency as defined in § 40.1, shall, if practicable, be filed with the Commission prior to the implementation or, if not practicable, be filed with the Commission at the earliest possible time after implementation, but in no event more than twenty-four hours after implementation. Such rules shall be subject to the review and stay provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(ii) New rules or rule amendments that establish standards for responding to an emergency must be submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section or may be submitted pursuant to § 40.5.
(7) The rule submission shall include:
(i) The information required by appendix D to this part (“Emergency Rule Certification” should be noted in the Description section in the case of a rule or rule amendment that responds to an emergency);
(ii) The text of the rule (in the case of a rule amendment, deletions and additions must be indicated);
(iii) The date of intended implementation;
(iv) A certification by the registered entity that the rule complies with the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder;
(v) A concise explanation and analysis that is complete with respect to the operation, purpose, and effect of the proposed rule or rule amendment and its compliance with applicable provisions of the Act, including core principles, and the Commission's regulations thereunder;
(vi) A brief explanation of any substantive opposing views expressed to the registered entity by governing board or committee members, members of the entity or market participants, that were not incorporated into the rule, or a statement that no such opposing views were expressed; and
(vii) As appropriate, a request for confidential treatment pursuant to the procedures provided in § 40.8;
(8) The registered entity shall provide, if requested by Commission staff, additional evidence, information or data that may be beneficial to the Commission in conducting a due diligence assessment of the filing and the registered entity's compliance with any of the requirements of the Act or the Commission's regulations or policies thereunder; and
(9) Notwithstanding the 10 business day filing requirement of paragraphs (a)(3) and (b)(1) of this section, a registered entity may file a submission and certification of a new rule or a rule amendment that delists, or withdraws the certification of, a product that has no open interest and may make the delisting or withdrawal of the product with no open interest effective immediately upon filing the submission, provided that the submission is made in compliance with paragraphs (a)(1), (2) and (7) of this section.
(b)
Review by the Commission.
(1) The Commission shall have 10 business days to review the new rule or rule amendment before the new rule or rule amendment is deemed certified and can be made effective, unless the Commission notifies the registered entity during the 10-business day review period that it intends to issue a stay of the certification under paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Any amendment or supplementation made by the registered entity to the submission will be treated as the filing of a new submission under this section and be subject to the initial 10-business day review period in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, unless the amendment or supplementation is requested by the Commission or is made for correction of typographical errors, renumbering or other non-substantive revisions.
(c)
Stay
—(1)
Stay of certification of new rule or rule amendment.
The Commission may stay the certification of a new rule or rule amendment submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section by issuing a notification informing the
registered entity that the Commission is staying the certification of the rule or rule amendment on the grounds that the rule or rule amendment presents novel or complex issues that require additional time to analyze, the rule or rule amendment is accompanied by an inadequate explanation or the rule or rule amendment is potentially inconsistent with the Act or the Commission's regulations thereunder. The Commission will have an additional 90 days from the date of the notification to conduct the review. The decision to stay the certification of a rule in such circumstances shall be delegable pursuant to § 40.7 of this part.
(2)
Public comment.
The Commission shall provide a 30-day comment period within the 90-day period in which the stay is in effect as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The Commission shall publish a notice of the 30-day comment period on the Commission website. Comments from the public shall be submitted as specified in that notice.
(3)
Expiration of a stay of certification of new rule or rule amendment.
A new rule or rule amendment subject to a stay pursuant to this paragraph (c)(3) shall become effective and can be implemented, pursuant to the certification, at the expiration of the 90-day review period described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section unless the Commission withdraws the stay prior to that time, or the Commission notifies the registered entity during the 90-day time period that it objects to the certification on the grounds that the proposed rule or rule amendment is inconsistent with the Act or 17 CFR chapter I.
(4)
Stay of effectiveness of rules or rule amendments already implemented.
The Commission may stay the effectiveness of an implemented rule during the pendency of Commission proceedings for filing a false certification or during the pendency of a petition to alter or amend the rule pursuant to section 8a(7) of the Act. The decision to stay the effectiveness of a rule in such circumstances shall not be delegable to any employee of the Commission.
(5)
Effect of objection.
(i) Notification to a registered entity under paragraph (c) of this section of the Commission's objection to a certification by a registered entity on the grounds that the proposed rule or rule amendment is inconsistent with the Act or the Commission's regulations does not prevent the registered entity from subsequently submitting a revised version of the proposed rule or rule amendment for certification or Commission review and approval, or from submitting the new rule or rule amendment as initially proposed, in a supplemented submission; the revised or supplemented submission will be reviewed without prejudice.
(ii) Notification to a registered entity under paragraph (c) of this section of the Commission's objection to a certification by a registered entity shall be presumptive evidence that the entity may not truthfully certify under this part that the same, or substantially the same, proposed rule or rule amendment complies with the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder.
(d)
Notification of rule amendments.
Notwithstanding the rule certification requirement of Section 5c(c)(1) of the Act and paragraph (a) of this section, a registered entity may place the following rules or rule amendments into effect without certification to the Commission if the following conditions are met:
(1) The registered entity provides to the Commission at least weekly a summary notice of all rule amendments made effective pursuant to this paragraph (d)(1) during the preceding week. Such notice must be labeled “Weekly Notification of Rule Amendments” and need not be filed for weeks during which no such actions have been taken. One copy of each such submission shall be furnished electronically in a format and manner specified by the Commission; and
(2) The rule governs:
(i)
Non-substantive revisions.
Corrections of typographical errors, renumbering, periodic routine updates to identifying information about registered entities and other such non-substantive revisions of a product's terms and conditions that have no effect on the economic characteristics of the product;
(ii)
Delivery standards set by third parties.
Changes to grades or standards of commodities deliverable on a product that are established by an independent third party and that are incorporated by reference as product terms, provided that the grade or standard is not established, selected or calculated solely for use in connection with futures or option trading and such changes do not affect deliverable supplies or the pricing basis for the product;
(iii)
Index products.
Routine changes in the composition, computation, or method of selection of component entities of an index (other than routine changes to securities indexes to the extent that such changes are not described in paragraph (e)(2)(vi) of this section) referenced and defined in the product's terms, that do not affect the pricing basis of the index, which are made by an independent third party whose business relates to the collection or dissemination of price information and which was not formed solely for the purpose of compiling an index for use in connection with a futures or option product;
(iv)
Option contract terms.
Changes to option contract rules, which may qualify for implementation without notice pursuant to paragraph (e)(2)(vii) of this section, relating to the strike price listing procedures, strike price intervals, and the listing of strike prices on a discretionary basis;
(v)
Fees.
Fees or fee changes, other than fees or fee changes associated with market making or trading incentive programs, that:
(A) Total $1.00 or more per contract, and
(B) Are established by an independent third party or are unrelated to delivery, trading, clearing or dispute resolution.
(vi)
Survey lists.
Changes to lists of banks, brokers, dealers, or other entities that provide price or cash market information to an independent third party and that are incorporated by reference as product terms;
(vii)
Approved brands.
Changes in lists of approved brands or markings pursuant to previously certified or Commission approved standards or criteria;
(viii)
Delivery facilities and delivery service providers.
Changes in lists of approved delivery facilities and delivery service providers (including weigh masters, assayers, and inspectors) at a delivery location, pursuant to previously certified or Commission approved standards or criteria;
(ix)
Trading months.
The initial listing of trading months, or an amendment to existing trading months, which may qualify for implementation without notice pursuant to paragraph (e)(2)(viii) of this section, within the currently established cycle of trading months;
(x)
Minimum tick.
Reductions in the minimum price fluctuation (or “tick”).
(xi)
Contact information.
Updates of email addresses or other contact information that market participants use to submit block trades;
(xii)
Changes to no cancellation ranges.
For a contract for the purchase or sale of a commodity for future delivery or an option on such a contract or an option on a commodity (other than a swap), changes to no cancellation ranges (which are the price ranges within which a trade will not be cancelled); or
(xiii)
Option premiums or margins.
For a contract for the purchase or sale of a commodity for future delivery or an option on such a contract or an option on a commodity (other than a swap), payment or collection of commodity options premiums or margins; or for a swap, payment or collection of option premiums or margins.
(e)
Notification of rule amendments not required.
Notwithstanding the rule certification requirements of section 5c(c)(1) of the Act and paragraph (a) of this section, a registered entity may place the following rules or rule amendments into effect without certification or notice to the Commission if the following conditions are met:
(1) The registered entity maintains documentation regarding all changes to rules; and
(2) The rule governs:
(i)
Transfer of membership or ownership.
Procedures and forms for the purchase, sale or transfer of membership or ownership, but not including qualifications for membership or ownership, any right or obligation of membership or ownership or dues or assessments;
(ii)
Administrative procedures.
The organization and administrative procedures of a registered entity governing bodies such as a Board of Directors, Officers and Committees, but not voting requirements, Board of Directors or Committee composition requirements or procedures, decision making procedures, use or disclosure of material non-public information gained through the performance of official duties, or requirements relating to conflicts of interest;
(iii)
Administration.
The routine, daily administration, direction and control of employees, requirements relating to gratuity and similar funds, but not guaranty, reserves, or similar funds; declaration of holidays, and changes to facilities housing the market, trading floor or trading area;
(iv)
Standards of decorum.
Standards of decorum or attire or similar provisions relating to admission to the floor, badges, or visitors, but not the establishment of penalties for violations of such rules; and
(v)
Fees.
Fees or fee changes, other than fees or fee changes associated with market making or trading incentive programs, that:
(A) Are less than $1.00 per contract; or
(B) Relate to matters such as dues, badges, telecommunication services, booth space, real time quotations, historical information, publications, software licenses or other matters that are administrative in nature.
(vi)
Securities indexes.
Routine changes to the composition, computation or method of security selection of an index that is referenced and defined in the product's rules, and which is made by an independent third party.
(vii)
Option contract terms.
For registered entities that are in compliance with the daily reporting requirements of § 16.01 of this chapter, changes to option contract rules relating to the strike price listing procedures, strike price intervals, and the listing of strike prices on a discretionary basis.
(viii)
Trading months.
For registered entities that are in compliance with the daily reporting requirements of § 16.01 of this chapter, the initial listing of trading months which are within the currently established cycle of trading months.
[76 FR 44790, July 27, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 45666, Aug. 1, 2011; 89 FR 88626, Nov. 7, 2024]
§ 40.7
Delegations.
(a)
Procedural matters.
(1) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and, separately, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, to be exercised by either Director, as appropriate, or by such employees of the Commission that either Director may designate from time to time, the following authorities, with the concurrence of the General Counsel or the General Counsel's delegate:
(i) To request, pursuant to § 40.3(c)(2) or § 40.5(c)(1)(ii) of this part, that the registered entity requesting approval amend the proposed product, rule or rule amendment, or supplement the submission to the Commission;
(ii) To notify the registered entity, pursuant to § 40.3(e) or § 40.5(e) of this part, that the Commission is not approving, or is unable to approve, the proposed product, rule or rule amendment;
(iii) To make all determinations reserved to the Commission in § 40.10.
(2) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and, separately, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, to be exercised by either Director, as appropriate, or by such employees of the Commission that either Director may designate from time to time, the following authorities, after consultation with the Office of General Counsel or the General Counsel's delegate to notify a registered entity:
(i) Pursuant to § 40.3(d) of this part, that the time for review of the submission has been extended because the product raises novel or complex issues that require additional time for review;
(ii) Pursuant to § 40.5(d) of this part, that the time for review of the submission has been extended because the proposed rule or rule amendment raises novel or complex issues that require additional time for review or is of major economic significance;
(iii) Pursuant to § 40.6(c) of this part, that the proposed rule or rule amendment has been stayed because there exist novel or complex issues that require additional time to analyze, or there is potential inconsistency with the Act or the Commission's regulations.
(3) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and, separately, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, to be exercised by either Director, as appropriate, or by such employees of the Commission that either Director may designate from time to time, the authority to notify a registered entity, pursuant to § 40.3(d) or § 40.5(d) of this part, that the time for review of the submission has been extended, or that a rule certified pursuant to § 40.6(c) has been stayed, because the submission is incomplete or provides an inadequate explanation.
(4)
Emergency rules.
The Commission hereby delegates to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight and, separately, to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk, to be exercised by either Director, as appropriate, or by such other employee or employees of the Commission that either Director may designate from time to time, authority to receive notification of emergency rules under § 40.6(a)(6)(ii) of this part.
(5) The Commission hereby delegates to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, to be exercised by the Director or by such employees of the Commission that the Director may designate from time to time, with the concurrence of the General Counsel or the General Counsel's delegate, the authority to determine whether a rule or rule amendment submitted by a designated contract market is material under § 40.4(b)(5), and to notify the designated contract market of such determination.
(b)
Approval authority.
The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and, separately, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, to be exercised by either Director, as appropriate, or by such employees of the Commission that either Director may designate from time to time, with the concurrence of the General Counsel or the General Counsel's delegate, the authority to approve, pursuant to section 5c(c)(3) of the Act and § 40.5 of this part, rules or rule amendments of a registered entity that:
(1) Relate to, but do not substantially change, the quantity, quality, or other delivery specifications, procedures, or obligations for delivery, cash settlement, or exercise under an agreement, contract or transaction approved for trading by the Commission; daily settlement prices; clearing position limits; requirements or procedures for governance of a registered entity; procedures for transfer trades; trading hours; minimum price fluctuations; and maximum price limit and trading suspension provisions;
(2) Reflect routine modifications that are required or anticipated by the terms of the rule of a registered entity;
(3) Establish or amend or relate to speculative limits or position accountability provisions that are in compliance with the requirements of the Act and17 CFR chapter I;
(4) Are in substance the same as a rule of the same or another registered entity which has been approved previously by the Commission pursuant to section 5c(c)(3) of the Act;
(5) Are consistent with a specific, stated policy or interpretation of the Commission; or
(6) Relate to the listing of additional trading months of approved contracts.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and, separately, the Director of the Division of Market Oversight may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that has been delegated pursuant to this section.
(d) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising any of the authority delegated pursuant to this section.
(e) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk and, separately, to the Director of the
Division of Market Oversight, to be exercised by either Director, as appropriate, or by such employees of the Commission that either Director may designate from time to time, the authority to specify the format and manner to be used by a registered entity when filing a submission pursuant to this part.
[76 FR 44790, July 27, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 89 FR 88628, Nov. 7, 2024]
§ 40.8
Availability of public information.
(a) The following sections of all applications to become a designated contract market, swap execution facility, derivatives clearing organization, or swap data repository shall be made publicly available: Transmittal letter and first page of the application cover sheet, proposed rules, narrative summary of the applicant's proposed activities and regulatory compliance chart, documents establishing the applicant's legal status, documents setting forth the applicant's corporate and governance structure and any other part of the application not covered by a request for confidential treatment.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) A registered entity's filing of new products pursuant to the self-certification procedures of § 40.2 of this part, new products for Commission review and approval pursuant to § 40.3 of this part, new rules and rule amendments for Commission review and approval pursuant to § 40.4 or § 40.5 of this part, and new rules and rule amendments pursuant to the self-certification procedures of § 40.6 and § 40.10 of this part shall be treated as public information unless accompanied by a request for confidential treatment. If a registered entity files a request for confidential treatment, the following procedures shall apply:
(1) A detailed written justification of the confidential treatment request must be filed simultaneously with the request for confidential treatment. The form and content of the detailed written justification shall be governed by § 145.9 of this chapter;
(2) All material for which confidential treatment is requested must be segregated in an appendix to the submission;
(3) The submission itself must indicate that material has been segregated and, as appropriate, an additional redacted version provided;
(4) Commission staff may make an initial determination with respect to the request for confidential treatment without regard to whether a request for the information has been sought under the Freedom of Information Act;
(5) All requests for confidential treatment shall be subject to the process provided by § 145.9 of this chapter.
(6) A submitter of information under this part may appeal an adverse decision by staff to the Commission's Office of General Counsel. The form and content of such appeal shall be governed by § 145.9(g) of this chapter.
(7) The grant of any part of a request for confidential treatment under this section may be reconsidered if a subsequent request under the Freedom of Information Act is made for the information.
(d) Commission staff will not consider confidential treatment requests for information that is required to be made public under the Act. The terms and conditions of a product submitted to the Commission pursuant to §§ 40.2, 40.3, 40.5 and 40.6 of this part shall be made publicly available at the time of submission.
[76 FR 44790, July 27, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 59578, Oct. 2, 2015]
§ 40.9
[Reserved]
§ 40.10
Special certification procedures for submission of rules by systemically important derivatives clearing organizations.
(a)
Advance notice.
A systemically important derivatives clearing organization, as defined in § 39.2 of this chapter, shall provide notice to the Commission not less than 60 days in advance of any proposed change to its rules, procedures, or operations that could materially affect the nature or level of risks presented by the systemically important derivatives clearing organization. A notice submitted under this section shall be subject to the filing requirements of § 40.6(a)(1) and the website publication requirements of § 40.6(a)(2).
(1) The notice of a proposed change shall provide the information required to be submitted under § 40.6(a)(7) and shall specifically describe:
(i) The nature of the change and expected effects on risks to the systemically important derivatives clearing organization, its clearing members, or the market; and
(ii) How the systemically important derivatives clearing organization plans to manage any identified risks.
(2) Concurrent with providing the Commission with the advance notice or any request or other information related to the advance notice, the systemically important derivatives clearing organization shall provide the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System with a copy of such notice, request or other information in the same format and manner as required by the Board of Governors for those designated financial market utilities for which it is the Supervisory Agency pursuant to section 803(8) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(3) The systemically important derivatives clearing organization may request that the Commission expedite the review on the grounds that the change would materially decrease risk. The Commission, in its discretion, may expedite the review and, pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, notify the systemically important derivatives clearing organization in less than 60 days from the date the Commission receives the notice of proposed change in writing that it does not object to the proposed change and authorizes implementation of the change on an earlier date.
(b)
Changes requiring advance notice.
Changes to a systemically important derivatives clearing organization's rules, procedures, or operations that could materially affect the nature or level of risks presented by the systemically important derivatives clearing organization may include, but are not limited to: material changes to its default management plan or default rules or procedures required under § 39.16 or 39.35 of this chapter, program of risk analysis and oversight required under § 39.18 of this chapter, or recovery and wind down plans required under § 39.39 of this chapter; the adoption of a new or materially revised margin methodology; the establishment of a cross-margining program or similar arrangement with another clearing organization; and material changes to its approach to the stress testing required under § 39.13(h)(3) or 39.36(a) or (c) of this chapter. If a systemically important derivatives clearing organization determines that a proposed change could not materially affect the nature or level of risks it presents and therefore does not file an advance notice, the Commission may determine otherwise and require the systemically important derivatives clearing organization to withdraw the proposed change and provide notice pursuant to this section.
(c)
Further information.
The Commission may require the systemically important derivatives clearing organization to provide any further information necessary to assess the effect the proposed change would have on the nature or level of risks associated with the systemically important derivatives clearing organization's payment, clearing, or settlement activities and the sufficiency of any proposed risk management techniques.
(d)
Notice of objection.
A systemically important derivatives clearing organization shall not implement a change to which the Commission has an objection on the grounds that the proposed change is not consistent with the Act or 17 CFR chapter I, or any applicable rules, orders, or standards prescribed under section 805(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Commission will notify the systemically important derivatives clearing organization in writing of any objection regarding the proposed change within 60 days from the later of:
(1) The date that the notice of the proposed change was received; or
(2) The date the Commission received any further information it had requested for consideration of the notice.
(e)
Implementation of change absent Commission objection.
A systemically important derivatives clearing organization may implement a change if it has not received an objection to the proposed change within 60 days from the later of:
(1) The date that the Commission received the notice of proposed change; or
(2) The date the Commission received any further information it had requested for consideration of the notice.
(f)
Extended review.
The Commission may, during the 60-day review period, extend the review period if the proposed change raises novel or complex issues. A notification by the Commission pursuant to this paragraph will extend the review for an additional 60 days. Any extension under this paragraph will extend the time periods under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section for an additional 60 days.
(g)
Change allowed earlier if notified of no objection.
A systemically important derivatives clearing organization may implement a change in less than 60 days from the date the Commission receives the notice of proposed change or the date the Commission receives any further information it has requested, if the Commission notifies the systemically important derivatives clearing organization in writing that it does not object to the proposed change and authorizes implementation of the change on an earlier date, subject to any conditions imposed by the Commission.
(h)
Emergency changes.
A systemically important derivatives clearing organization may implement a change that would otherwise require advance notice under this section if it determines that an emergency exists and immediate implementation of the change is necessary for the systemically important derivatives clearing organization to continue to provide its services in a safe and sound manner.
(1) The systemically important derivatives clearing organization shall provide notice of any such emergency change to the Commission as soon as practicable, which shall be no later than 24 hours after implementation of the change.
(2) The notice of an emergency change shall:
(i) Provide the information required for advance notice as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section;
(ii) Describe the nature of the emergency; and
(iii) Describe the reason the change was necessary for the systemically important derivatives clearing organization to continue to provide its services in a safe and sound manner.
(3) The Commission may require modification or rescission of the emergency change if it finds that the change is not consistent with the Act or 17 CFR chapter I, or any applicable rules, orders, or standards prescribed under section 805(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act.
(i) Where in §§ 39.3(g), 39.4(f), 39.13(i), and 39.15(b)(2) of this chapter a derivatives clearing organization is required to submit rules for approval pursuant to § 40.5, a systemically important derivatives clearing organization instead shall submit such rules pursuant to this section if the rules could materially affect the nature or level of risks presented by the systemically important derivatives clearing organization.
[76 FR 44790, July 27, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 88628, Nov. 7, 2024]
§ 40.11
Review of event contracts based upon certain excluded commodities.
(a)
Prohibition.
A registered entity shall not list for trading or accept for clearing on or through the registered entity any of the following:
(1) An agreement, contract, transaction, or swap based upon an excluded commodity, as defined in Section 1a(19)(iv) of the Act, that involves, relates to, or references terrorism, assassination, war, gaming, or an activity that is unlawful under any State or Federal law; or
(2) An agreement, contract, transaction, or swap based upon an excluded commodity, as defined in Section 1a(19)(iv) of the Act, which involves, relates to, or references an activity that is similar to an activity enumerated in § 40.11(a)(1) of this part, and that the Commission determines, by rule or regulation, to be contrary to the public interest.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
90-day review and approval of certain event contracts.
The Commission may determine, based upon a review of the terms or conditions of a submission under § 40.2 or § 40.3, that an agreement, contract, transaction, or swap based on an excluded commodity, as defined in Section 1a(19)(iv) of the Act, which
may involve, relate to, or reference an activity enumerated in § 40.11(a)(1) or § 40.11(a)(2), be subject to a 90-day review. The 90-day review shall commence from the date the Commission notifies the registered entity of a potential violation of § 40.11(a).
(1) The Commission shall request that a registered entity suspend the listing or trading of any agreement, contract, transaction, or swap based on an excluded commodity, as defined in Section 1a(19)(iv) of the Act, which may involve, relate to, or reference an activity enumerated in § 40.11(a)(1) or § 40.11(a)(2), during the Commission's 90-day review period. The Commission shall post on the Web site a notification of the intent to carry out a 90-day review.
(2)
Final determination.
The Commission shall issue an order approving or disapproving an agreement, contract, transaction, or swap that is subject to a 90-day review under § 40.11(c) not later than 90 days subsequent to the date that the Commission commences review, or if applicable, at the conclusion of such extended period agreed to or requested by the registered entity.
§ 40.12
Staying of certification and tolling of review period pending jurisdictional determination.
(a)
Notice of novel derivative products.
(1) A registered entity certifying, submitting for approval, or otherwise filing a proposal to list, trade, or clear a novel derivative product (other than a product subject to the provisions of § 1.8 of this chapter) having elements of both a security and a contract for the sale of a commodity for future delivery (or an option on such contract or an option on a commodity) may provide notice of its proposal to the Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission with a statement that written notice has been provided to both agencies through an appropriate means provided in each Commission's regulations.
(2) If concurrent notice is not provided pursuant to § 40.12(a)(1), the Commission shall notify the Securities and Exchange Commission of the registered entity's submission of a novel derivative product described in § 40.12(a)(1) and accompany such notice with a copy of the submission. The Commission shall determine whether a particular submission is a novel derivative product requiring notice to the Securities and Exchange Commission not later than five business days subsequent to the date that the registered entity submits the product for Commission review.
(b)
Tolling of review period.
Upon receipt of a request for a jurisdictional determination, pursuant to Section 718(a)(2) of the Dodd-Frank Act, by the Commission or the Securities and Exchange Commission, the product certification shall be stayed or the approval review period shall be tolled until a final determination order is issued.
(1) The Commission will provide the registered entity with a written notice of stay pending issuance of a final determination order by the Commission or the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(2) The stay shall be withdrawn or the approval review period shall resume upon the Commission's or the Securities and Exchange Commission's issuance of a final determination order finding that the Commission has jurisdiction over the submission.
(3)
Determination order.
A final determination, for purposes of § 40.12(b) of this part, shall be a determination order issued by the Commission or the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 718(a)(3) of the Dodd-Frank Act.
(c)
Judicial review of determination order.
The filing of a petition by a complaining Commission, pursuant to Section 718(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act, shall operate as a stay of the agency order.
(1) The stay shall remain in effect until the date on which the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issues a final determination pursuant to Section 718(b)(4) of the Dodd-Frank Act, or until such date that there is a final disposition of an appeal of that determination.
(2) The submission review period shall resume upon issuance of a final determination, as described in § 40.12(c)(1), that the Commission has jurisdiction over the submission.
Pt. 40, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 40—Schedule of Fees
(a)
Applications for product approval.
Each application for product approval under § 40.3 must be accompanied by a check or money order made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in an amount to be determined annually by the Commission and published in the
Federal Register.
(b) Checks and applications should be sent to the attention of the Office of the Secretariat, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20581. No checks or money orders may be accepted by personnel other than those in the Office of the Secretariat.
(c) Failure to submit the fee with an application for product approval will result in return of the application. Fees will not be returned after receipt.
Appendixes B-C to Part 40 [Reserved]
Pt. 40, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 40—Submission Instructions for Rules and Products
(a) Rule and product submissions shall be submitted electronically to the Commission by a registered entity in a format and manner specified by the Commission, and shall include all of the following information:
1.
Date
—The date of the filing.
2.
Organization
—The name of the organization filing the submission (e.g., CBOT).
3.
Type of Registered Entity
—An indication as to whether the rule or product is being submitted by a designated contract market (DCM), derivatives clearing organization (DCO), swap execution facility (SEF), or swap data repository (SDR).
4.
Type of Filing
—An indication as to whether the filing is a new rule, rule amendment or new product and the section of this part under which the filing is submitted. For a new product to be listed by a DCM or a SEF, an indication whether the new product meets the definition of referenced contract as such term is defined in § 150.1 of this chapter and is described in appendix C to part 150 of this chapter.
5.
Rule Numbers
—For rule filings, the rule number(s) being adopted or modified in the case of rule amendment filings.
6.
Description
—For rule or rule amendment filings, a description of the new rule or rule amendment, including a discussion of its expected impact on the registered entity, market participants, and the overall market. The narrative should describe the substance of the submission with enough specificity to characterize all material aspects of the filing.
7.
Identifier Code (optional)
—A registered entity Identifier Code, if applicable. Such codes are commonly generated by registered entities to provide an identifier that is unique to each filing (e.g., NYMEX Submission 03-116).
(b)
Other Requirements
—A submission shall comply with all applicable filing requirements for proposed rules, rule amendments, or products. The entry of the information required by paragraph (a) of this appendix does not obviate the registered entity's responsibility to comply with applicable filing requirements (e.g., rules submitted for Commission approval under § 40.5 must be accompanied by an explanation of the purpose and effect of the proposed rule along with a description of any substantive opposing views).
(c) An indication of “confidential treatment requested” does not obviate the submitter's responsibility to comply with all applicable requirements for requesting confidential treatment in § 40.8 and, where appropriate, § 145.9 of this chapter, and will not substitute for notice or full compliance with such requirements.
[89 FR 88628, Nov. 7, 2024]
Pt. 40, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 40—Guidance on Compliance With the Materiality Assessment in § 40.4
This appendix provides guidance on complying with the requirement in § 40.4(a) that a DCM must submit rule changes that would materially change a term or condition of a contract on an agricultural product enumerated in section 1a(9) of the CEA with open interest for Commission approval under the procedures of § 40.5. Section 40.4(a) applies strictly to rules that materially change a product's economic terms and conditions, and does not apply to other rules. Guidance is set forth below to assist a DCM in assessing whether a change to the terms and conditions is material pursuant to § 40.4(a) and in explaining why it considers a rule to be non-material when § 40.4(b)(5) is applicable. The guidance below can be used to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirement in § 40.4(b)(5)(ii) that the DCM explain why it considers a rule to be non-material when applicable.

# Materiality of a Change of a Term or Condition
Any change that is enumerated by the Commission in § 40.4(b)(1) through (4) is not material for purposes of § 40.4(a) and may be submitted under the applicable § 40.6 provision that is specified in the applicable § 40.4(b). For any other rule that the DCM believes to be non-material, § 40.4(b)(5) sets forth a process for the DCM to implement the change through self-certification pursuant to § 40.6(a).
In order for a DCM to self-certify a change to a term or condition of a contract on an agricultural product enumerated in CEA section 1a(9) with open interest that the DCM
believes to be non-material, § 40.4(b)(5) requires the DCM to make a non-materiality filing and explain why it considers the rule change to be “non-material.” To assist an exchange in assessing and explaining whether a change to the terms and conditions is non-material pursuant to § 40.4(b)(5), paragraphs (1) through (4) of the following paragraph are the criteria that the Commission generally considers as evidence that an enumerated agricultural product rule change is non-material under § 40.4(a) pursuant to § 40.4(b)(5). A DCM may address these criteria in its assessment and explanation to demonstrate compliance with § 40.4(b)(5).
The Commission considers a change to the terms and conditions of a contract on an agricultural product enumerated in CEA section 1a(9) that has open interest as a non-material change if:
(1) The change should not affect a reasonable trader's decision to enter into, or maintain, a position;
(2) The change should not affect a reasonable trader's decision to make or take delivery on the contract or to exercise an option on the contract; and
(3) The change should not have an effect on the value of existing positions, including, but not limited to, a change affecting the price of the contract due to a change in the commodity quality characteristics of the existing contract, a change to the size of the existing contract, or a change to a cost of effecting delivery for the existing contract.
[89 FR 88629, Nov. 7, 2024]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
17 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
17 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
1 Policy statement
37734
1.10 (f)(1) introductory text and (h) revised
57543
1.12 (a) introductory text, (1), (b)(3), and (4) revised; (b)(5) added
57543
1.16 (f)(1)(i)(B) and (ii)(B) revised
57543
1.17 (a)(1)(i)(A), (B), (b)(9), (10), (c)(1)(i), (2)(i), (ii)(B), (D), (5)(viii), (ix), (x), (xiv), (6)(i), (iv)(A), and (g)(1) revised; (a)(1)(ii), (b)(11), (c)(2)(ii)(G), (5)(iii), (iv), (xv), (xvi), and (6)(v) added
57544
1.20 (d)(1), (7), and (8) introductory text revised
4850
1.59 (a)(1) revised
4850
1.63 (a)(1) revised
4850
1.64 (a)(1) revised
4850
1.65 (b) introductory text, (d), and (e) revised
57547
1.69 (a)(7) revised
4850
3.10 (c) revised
78738
4.13 (b)(1)(ii) revised; (b)(1)(iii) redesignated as (b)(1)(iv); new (b)(1)(iii) added
40890
4.27 (c) and (d) revised
71789
4 Appendix A revised
71789
23.23 Added
56997
(h)(3)(i) correctly amended
69499
23.100 Added
57547
23.101 Added
57548
23.102 Added
57550
23.103 Added
57551
23.104 Added
57551
23.105 Added
57551
23.106 Added
57556
23.100—23.199 (Subpart E) Appendix A added
57556
23.100—23.199 (Subpart E) Appendix B added
57561
23.100—23.199 (Subpart E) Appendix C added
57565
23.151 Amended
27678
23.157 (c)(1) revised
27678
23.161 (a)(1)(iii), (3)(iii), (4)(iii), (5)(iii), and (6) revised; (a)(7) added
19882
(a)(6) revised; interim
41352
(a)(7) revised
71251
30 Order
74861, 74864, 74867, 74869, 74872
30.10 (c) added
15363
36 Revised
82328
37.3 (a)(4) added
82329
37.9 (d) added
44707
(d) redesignated as (f); new (d) and (e) added; (a)(2)(i) introductory text and new (f) revised
82329
39 Authority citation revised
67186
39.2 Revised
4850
Amended
67186
39.3 (a), (b)(2)(i), and (c) through (f) revised; (g) added
4851
(a)(3) through (6) redesignated as (a)(4) through (7); new (a)(3) added; new (a)(5) and (6) revised
67186
39.4 (a) and (e) revised
4852
(c) through (e) redesignated as (d) through (f); new (c) added
67187
39.9 Revised
67187
39.10 (c)(1)(ii), (iv), (3) introductory text, (i), (ii) introductory text, (A), (v), (4)(i), and (ii) revised; (d) added
4852
39.11 (a) introductory text, (2), (b)(1) introductory text, (i) through (v), (c), (d)(2)(iv), (e)(1)(ii)(A), (B), (C), (iii), (2), (3), (4)(i), (f)(1) introductory text, (i)(A), (ii), (iii), (2), (3), and (4) revised; (e)(1)(iv) and (f)(1)(iv) added
4853
(b)(1)(vi) removed; (e)(4)(ii) and (iii) added
35805
39.12 (a) introductory text, (1)(i), (4), (5), (6), (b)(1) introductory text, and (2) revised
4855
39.13 (b), (f), (g)(2)(i), (3), (4)(i) introductory text, (8), (12), (h)(1)(i) introductory text, (5)(i) introductory text, and (ii) revised; (g)(7)(iii), (h)(3)(iii), and (i) added
4855
(g)(8)(iii) added
35805
39.15 (b) heading, (1), (2) heading, (2)(i) introductory text, (A), (D), (F), (H) through (L), (ii), (iii), (d) introductory text, and (e) revised
4856
39.16 (a), (b), (c)(1), (2) introductory text, (ii), (iii)(C), and (d)(1) revised; (e) added
4857
39.17 (a) introductory text, (1), (3), and (b) revised
4858
39.19 (a), (b), (c) introductory text, (1) heading, (i), (ii) introductory text, (C), and (2) through (5) revised
4858
39.20 (a) introductory text and (b)(2) revised
4860
39.21 (a), (b), (c) introductory text, and (3) through (7) revised; (c)(8) and (9) added; (d) removed
4861
39.22 Revised
4861
39.24 Added
4861
39.25 Added
4862
39.26 Added
4862
39.27 (c)(3) added
4862
39.32 Removed
4862
39.33 (a)(1) and (c)(1)(i) revised; (d)(5) added
4862
39.36 (a)(5)(ii), (6), (b)(2)(ii), (d), and (e) revised
4862
39.37 (b) and (c) revised
4862
39.39 (a)(2) revised
4862
39.50—39.51 (Subpart D) Added
67187
39 Appendix A revised
4863
39 Appendix B revised
4891
2021
17 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
1.3 Amended
3454
1.25 (a)(2)(ii)(B) revised
19419
1.41 Added
19419
1.42 Added
19419
1.43 Added
19419
1.55 (d) and (f) revised; authority citation following (h) and (k) heading removed; (p) added
19419
1.65 (a)(3) introductory text and (iii) revised
19420
4.5 (c)(2)(iii)(A) revised
19420
4.12 Heading and (b)(1)(i)(C) revised
19420
4.13 (a)(3)(ii)(A) revised
19421
12.2 Revised
64350
12.5 (a) revised; undesignated text following (a) removed
64351
12.6 (a) revised
64352
12.7 (c)(1) revised
64352
12.8 Revised
64352
12.9 (a)(1) and (b) revised
64352
12.10 (b) and (c) revised
64352
12.11 (d)(1), (2) introductory text, (i), and (iii) revised
64352
12.12 (b) introductory text, (1), and (3) revised
64352
12.13 (b)(2) revised
64353
12.14 Revised
64353
12.15 (b) revised
64353
12.17 Revised
64353
12.18 (b) through (d) revised
64353
12.20 (a) and (c) revised
64353
12.21 (a) revised
64353
12.22 (b) revised
64353
12.23 (b) revised
64354
12.24 (a)(1)(iii) and (e) revised
64354
12.25 (b) and (c) revised
64354
12.26 Revised
64354
12.30 (c) revised
64355
12.33 (b) through (d) revised
64355
12.34 Revised
64355
12.35 Introductory text revised
64356
12.101 Heading and introductory text revised
64356
12.102 Revised
64356
12.106 (a) revised
64356
12.200 Revised
64356
12.201 Heading, introductory text, (a), and (d) revised
64356
12.202 Revised
64356
12.204 (a) and (b) revised
64356
12.205 (a), (b), (c)(1), and (2) revised
64357
12.206 (a) through (g) redesignated as (a)(1) through (7); introductory text and undesignated text following new (a)(7) redesignated as (a) introductory text and (b); new (a) introductory text and new (b) revised
64357
12.207 (a) through (d) revised
64357
12.208 (b) revised
64357
12.209 Revised
64358
12.210 (a), (b) introductory text, (1), and (c) revised
64358
12.303 (a) through (g) redesignated as (a)(1) through (7); introductory text and undesignated text following new (a)(7) redesignated as (a) introductory text and (b); new (a) introductory text and new (b) revised
64358
12.304 Introductory text and (e) revised
64358
12.305 Revised
64359
12.307 (a) and (b) revised
64359
12.308 (b) and (c)(1) revised
64359
12.309 (a)(1), (d), and (e) revised
64359
12.310 (a), (b), and (d) revised
64359
12.311 Revised
64359
12.312 (b) introductory text, (2), (d)(1), (2), (4), and (g) revised
64360
12.313 (a)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1), (2), and (3)(ii) revised
64360
12.314 (a) and (b)(1) revised
64361
12.402 Revised
64361
12.405 Revised
64361
12.407 (c) introductory text and (d) revised
64361
12.408 Introductory text, (a)(2) introductory text, (ii), (iii), (3), (4), (6), and (b) revised
64361
15.00 (p)(1) revised
3454
15.01 (d) revised
3454
15.02 Revised
3454
17.00 (b) introductory text revised
3455
17.03 (i) added
3455
19 Revised
3455
23.151 Amended
246, 6857
23.152 (b)(3) revised
6857
23.153 (c) revised
6857
23.154 (a)(5) added
246
23.158 (a) revised
6858
23.500 (g) revised; interim
225
23.500—23.506 (Subpart I) Appendix 1 added; interim
225
36.1 (b) and (c) added
9001
37.205 (a) revised; (b)(2)(iv) removed; eff. 5-12-21
9247
37.1300—37.1307 (Subpart N) Revised; eff. 5-12-21
9247
37.1501 Revised; eff. 5-12-21
9248
37 Appendix B amended; eff. 5-12-21
9249
38.251 (e) through (g) added
2071
38 Appendix B amended
2072
39.1 Revised
965
39.2 Amended
965
39.6 Added
965
39.9 Revised
968
40.1 (j)(1)(vii) and (2)(vii) revised
3463
2022
17 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
1 Notification
36407
Correction
41246
2023
17 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
1 Policy statement
74025
23.202 (a)(2)(iii), (v), and (vii) revised
8753
23.205 (a) revised
8753
23.500—23.506 (Subpart I) Appendix 1 amended
8753
39.2 Amended
53682
39.5 (b)(3)(vi) amended
53682
39.13 (g)(7) and (h)(5)(i)(A) amended; (h)(5)(i)(B) revised; (h)(5)(i)(C) removed; (h)(5)(iii) added
53682
39.15 (b)(2) revised
53683
39.19 (c)(1)(i), (ii) introductory text, (4)(ix)(A)(
1
), (xii), (xiii), and (xv) revised; (c)(1)(iii) and (4)(xxv) added
53683
39.21 (c)(3), (4), and (7) revised
53684
39.24 (b)(9) and (10)(iii) revised; (c)(1)(iv) and (v) redesignated as (c)(1)(v) and (vi); (b)(11), (12), new (c)(1)(iv), (3), and (d) added
44690
39.25 (c) revised
53684
39.37 (c) and (d) introductory text revised
53684
39 Appendix C added
53684
2024
17 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
Chapter I Order
58470, 58505, 58535, 58572
1 Appendix B (c) amended
71806
1.12 (g)(3) amended
71805
1.17 (c)(6)(ii)(A), (C), (D), and (iii)(B) amended
71805
1.20 (d)(2), (3)(i), (ii), (5), (6), (g)(4)(ii), and (iv)
71805
Appendix A and Appendix B amended
71805
1.26 Appendix A and Appendix B amended
71805
1.35 (a)(9)(iii) amended
71805
(b)(5)(i)(D) revised
78810
1.52 (c)(2)(iii)(B), (C), (d)(2)(ii)(G)(
2
), (
3
), (iii)(D), and (f)(2) amended
71805
1.65 (d) and (e) amended
71805
1.66 (b)(5)(ii) amended
71805
1.70 (a)(2), (b)(3), and (d) amended
71805
3.3 (h) amended
71806
3.10 (c)(5)(ii) introductory text revised
78810
3.22 Amended
71806
3.33 (e) amended
71806
3.50 (c) and (d) amended
71806
3.55 (e)(2) amended
71806
3.56 (e)(2) amended
71806
3.63 Amended
71806
3.70 (a) amended
71806
3.75 (a) amended
71806
3 Appendix A amended
71806
4.7 (a) and (b)(5) revised; (b)(3)(iv) added
78810
4.14 (a)(8)(i)(C)(
2
) revised
78813
4.21 (a)(2) revised
78813
4.22 (a)(4), (c)(7) introductory text, (8), (d)(1) introductory text, (2)(i) introductory text, (f)(2) introductory text, and (iv)(B) revised; (f)(2)(iv)(D) removed
78813
5.6 (f)(3) and (h) amended
71807
5.20 (d) heading and (d) amended
71807
5.23 (f) amended
71807
9.2 (h) amended
71807
9.4 (a) amended
71807
9.26 Amended
71807
9.31 (a) amended
71807
10.2 (i) amended
71807
10.4 Amended
71807
10.10 (a)(1)(iii) amended
71807
10.12 (d)(1) amended
71807
10.106 (b)(3) amended
71807
11.2 (b) amended
71808
11.7 (a) amended
71808
11 Appendix A amended
71808
12.2 Amended
71808
12.3 Amended
71808
12.11 (f) amended
71808
12.13 (b)(3) revised
71808
12.18 (e) revised
71808
12.407 (c)(1) amended
71808
13.1 Amended
71809
14.9 Amended
71809
15.05 (d), (g), and (i)(2) amended
71809
15.06 (a) amended
71809
16.07 Heading and (a) through (c) amended
71809
17.00 (a)(1), (g), and (h) revised
47457
17.03 (a) and (d) revised
47457
17.03 Heading, introductory text, and (a) through (i) amended
71809
17.11 (h) table amended
60327
17 Appendix C added
47457
18.03 (a) through (c) amended
71810
20.08 (a) through (e) amended
71810
23.23 (g)(8) amended
71810
23.100 Amended
45585
23.101 (a)(1)(i)(B), (ii)(B), and (C) revised; (a)(1)(ii)(D) added
45586
23.102 (d) revised
45586
(e)(3) amended
71810
23.103 (a)(1) and (c)(1) revised
45586
23.105 (c)(2), (4), (d)(2) through (4), (e)(4)(v), (6), (i)(1)(i), (ii), (2)(ii), (k)(1) introductory text, (l), (p)(2), and (7) revised
45586
23.160 (c)(7) amended
71810
23.100—23.199 (Subpart E) Appendix B amended
45588
23.100—23.199 (Subpart E) Appendix C revised
45593
23.206 Heading, (a), and (b) amended
71810
23.501 (a)(4)(i) revised
35001
30.6 (b)(1)(i) revised
78814
30.7 (d)(3)(i), (ii), (5), and (6) amended
71811
30.13 (f)(1), (n), and (o) amended
71811
30 Appendix E and Appendix F amended
71811
31.13 (n) and undesignated text following (n)(1) revised
71811
31.14 (a) amended
71811
31.28 (j) amended
71811
31 Appendix A amended
71811
37.3 (h) amended
71811
37.6 Revised
35001
37 Appendix B amended
88622
38 Policy statements
83377
38 Appendix B amended
88622
40 Authority citation revised
88622
40.1 Revised
88622
40.2 (a) introductory text, (1), (3)(i), (ii), (v), (vi), and (d) revised
88623
(a) introductory text correctly amended
96897
40.3 (e) removed; (f) redesignated as new (e); (a) introductory text, (1), (2), (4), (9), (10), (c), (d), and new (e) revised
88624
40.4 Revised
88624
40.5 (c)(2) removed; (d)(1), (2), (e), (f)(1), (2), and (g) redesignated as new (c)(2), (3), (d)(3), (e)(1), (2), and new (d)(2); (a) introductory text, (1), (2), (5), (6), (9), (c)(1), new (2), new (3), (d) introductory text, (1), new (2), new (3), new (e)(1), and (2) revised; (c)(4) through (6) added
88625
(f) correctly redesignated as (e); new (e) correctly revised; (c) heading, (d)(1) correctly added; (e)(1), and (2) correctly redesignated
96897
40.6 (d)(3) redesignated as (e); (a) introductory text, (1), (2), (5) through (8), (b), (c)(2), (3), (d)(1), (2)(iii), (iv), (ix), and new (e) revised; (a)(9), (c)(5), and (d)(2)(xi) through (xiii) added
88626
40.7 (a)(5) and (b)(3) revised; (e) added
88628
40.10 (a) introductory text, (b), (d) introductory text, and (h)(3) revised; (i) added
88628
40 Appendix D revised
88628
40 Appendix E added
88629
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
17 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter I
Chapter I Order
9007
1.3 Amended
7932
1.17 (b) introductory text, (c) introductory text, (2) introductory text, (4) introductory text, and (5) introductory text republished; (b)(6), (8) introductory text, (c)(2)(i), (4)(ii), and (5)(viii) revised; (b)(8)(v) added
7932
1.20 (d)(2) and (g)(4)(ii) amended; (d)(3) removed
7867
(i)(4) revised; (i)(5) added
7933
1.20 Appendices A and B redesignated as Pt. 1 Appendices C and D
7867
1.25 (a)(1)(iv) through (vi), (b)(2)(v), (vi), (3)(i)(C), and (F) removed; (a)(1)(vii), (b)(3)(i)(D), (E), and (G) redesignated as new (a)(1)(iv), (b)(3)(i)(C), (D); (a) heading, (1) introductory text, new (iv), (b) introductory text, (2) heading, (i) introductory text, (iv)(A) introductory text, (
1
), (
2
), new (3)(i)(D), new (E), (ii)(B) through (E), (4)(i), (c) introductory text, (1), (d)(2), and (7) revised; new (a)(1)(v), new (vi), (c)(8), and (f) added; (b)(3) heading and (d) introductory text republished; (c)(7) amended
7867
1.25 Appendix redesignated as Pt. 1 Appendix E
7869
1.26 (a) and (b) amended
7869
1.26 Appendices A and B redesignated to Pt. 1 Appendices F and G
7870
1.32 (f)(3)(iv) removed; (f)(3)(v) through (vii) redesignated as new (f)(3)(iv) through (vi) and revised
7870
(b) amended; (l) added
7934
1.44 Added
7934
1.55 (b)(6) revised
7870
1.58 Revised
7937
1.73 (c) added
7937
1 Appendix A added
7937
1 Appendices C and D redesignated from 1.20 Appendices A and B
7867
1 Appendix C revised; Appendices F and G redesignated from 1.26 Appendices A and B
7870
Appendix E redesignated from 1.25 Appendix
7869
Appendix E heading revised
7871
Appendix F revised
7871
Appendix G revised
7872
22.2 (g)(5)(iii)(D) removed; (g)(5)(iii)(E) through (G) redesignated as new (g)(5)(iii)(D) through (F) and revised
7873
(f) heading and (g) heading republished; (f)(4) and (5) revised; (g)(11) added
7937
22.3 (d) revised
7873
30.2 (b) revised
7938
30.7 (l)(5)(iii)(D) removed; (l)(5)(iii)(E) through (G) redesignated as new (l)(5)(iii)(D) through (F); (d)(2), (3), and new (l)(5)(iii)(D) through (F) revised
7873
(f) heading, (2) heading, and (l) heading republished; (f)(2)(iv) revised; (f)(2)(v) and (l)(11) added
7938
30 Appendix E revised
7874
30 Appendix F revised
7875
39.13 (g) heading and (8) heading republished; (g)(8)(i)(E) added; (g)(8)(iii) revised
7939
○
