Jan. 1, 2025
Title 9
Animals and Animal Products
Parts 1 to 199
Revised as of January 1, 2025
Containing a codification of documents of general applicability and future effect
As of January 1, 2025
Published by the Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration as a Special Edition of the Federal Register

# U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

# Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
archives.ai
The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as the official codification of Federal regulations established under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is prima facie evidence of the original documents published in the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).
It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this material without the express, written permission of the Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 1017.

# Use of ISBN Prefix
This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of the 0-16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work with a new ISBN.
gpologo2.eps
U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E
U.S. Superintendent of Documents • Washington, DC 20402-0001
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

# Table of Contents
Page
Explanation
v

# Title 9:
Chapter I—Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
3

# Finding Aids:
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
1037
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
1057
List of CFR Sections Affected
1067
Cite this Code:
CFR
To cite the regulations in this volume use title, part and section number. Thus,
9 CFR 1.1
refers to title 9, part 1, section 1.

# Explanation
The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16
as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27
as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41
as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50
as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.

# LEGAL STATUS
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

# HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date (in this case, January 1, 2025), consult the “List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),” which is issued monthly, and the “Cumulative List of Parts Affected,” which appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

# EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following the text.

# OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

# PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a “List of CFR Sections Affected” is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

# “[RESERVED]” TERMINOLOGY
The term “[Reserved]” is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a “[Reserved]” location at any time. Occasionally “[Reserved]” is used editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.

# INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference?
Incorporation by reference was established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference?
The Director of the Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is adequately summarized in the preamble of the final rule and is available to the extent necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found?
If you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or email fr.inspection@nara.gov.

# CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES
A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR
Index and Finding Aids.
This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in this volume.
An index to the text of “Title 3—The President” is carried within that volume.
The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. This index is based on a consolidation of the “Contents” entries in the daily Federal Register.
A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

# REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL
There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing in the Code of Federal Regulations.

# INQUIRIES
For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at the top of odd-numbered pages.
For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or e-mail
fedreg.info@nara.gov.

# SALES
The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, write to: U.S. Government Publishing Office Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013-7082.

# ELECTRONIC SERVICES
The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal Register, Public Laws, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act Compilation are available in electronic format via
www.govinfo.gov.
For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-mail,
ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) website for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related information. Connect to NARA's website at
www.archives.gov/federal-register.
The eCFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is available at
www.ecfr.gov.
Oliver A. Potts,
Director,
Office of the Federal Register
January 1, 2025

# THIS TITLE
Title 9—
Animals and Animal Products
is composed of two volumes. The first volume contains Chapter I—Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (parts 1-199). The second volume contains Chapter II—Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture and Chapter III—Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (part 200-end). The contents of these volumes represent all current regulations codified under this title of the CFR as of January 1, 2025.
For this volume, Gabrielle E. Burns was Chief Editor. The Code of Federal Regulations publication program is under the direction of John Hyrum Martinez, assisted by Stephen J. Frattini.
9 CFR Ch. I (1-1-25 Edition)
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
(This book contains parts 1 to 199)

# Editorial Note:
Other regulations issued by the Department of Agriculture appear in title 7, title 36, chapter II, and title 41, chapter 4.
Part
chapter i
—Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture
1

# CHAPTER I—ANIMAL AND PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

# SUBCHAPTER A—ANIMAL WELFARE
Part
Page
1
Definition of terms
7
2
Regulations
13
3
Standards
49
4
Rules of practice governing proceedings under the Animal Welfare Act
142
11
Horse protection regulations (EFF. until 02-01-25)
143
11
Horse protection regulations (EFF. 02-01-25)
162
12
Rules of practice governing proceedings under the Horse Protection Act
173

# SUBCHAPTER B—COOPERATIVE CONTROL AND ERADICATION OF LIVESTOCK OR POULTRY DISEASES
49
Rules of practice governing proceedings under certain acts
174
50
Animals destroyed because of tuberculosis
174
51
Animals destroyed because of brucellosis
184
52
Swine destroyed because of pseudorabies
197
53
Foot-and-mouth disease, pleuropneumonia, and certain other communicable diseases of livestock or poultry
201
54
Control of scrapie
209
55
Control of chronic wasting disease
225
56
Control of H5/H7 low pathogenic avian influenza
237

# SUBCHAPTER C—INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF ANIMALS (INCLUDING POULTRY) AND ANIMAL PRODUCTS
70
Rules of practice governing proceedings under certain acts
246
71
General provisions
246
72
Bovine babesiosis
267
73
Scabies in cattle
273
74
Prohibition of interstate movement of land tortoises
279
75
Communicable diseases in horses, asses, ponies, mules, and zebras
279
76
[Reserved]
77
Tuberculosis
281
78
Brucellosis
312
79
Scrapie in sheep and goats
351
80
Johne's disease in domestic animals
375
81
Chronic wasting disease in deer, elk, and moose
377
82
Newcastle Disease and chlamydiosis
381
85
Pseudorabies
396
86
Animal disease traceability
409
88
Commercial transportation of equines for slaughter
418
89
Statement of policy under the Twenty-Eight Hour Law
421

# SUBCHAPTER D—EXPORTATION AND IMPORTATION OF ANIMALS (INCLUDING POULTRY) AND ANIMAL PRODUCTS
91
Exportation of live animals, hatching eggs or other embryonated eggs, animal semen, animal embryos, and gametes from the United States
424
92
Importation of animals and animal products: Procedures for requesting recognition of regions and compartments
435
93
Importation of certain animals, birds, fish, and poultry, and certain animal, bird, and poultry products; requirements for means of conveyance and shipping containers
443
94
Foot-and-mouth disease, Newcastle disease, highly pathogenic avian influenza, African swine fever, classical swine fever, swine vesicular disease, and bovine spongiform encephalopathy: Prohibited and restricted importations
589
95
Sanitary control of animal byproducts (except casings), and hay and straw, offered for entry into the United States
642
96
Restriction of importations of foreign animal casings offered for entry into the United States
661
97
Overtime services relating to imports and exports
668
98
Importation of certain animal embryos and animal semen
675
99
Rules of practice governing proceedings under certain acts
698

# SUBCHAPTER E—VIRUSES, SERUMS, TOXINS, AND ANALOGOUS PRODUCTS; ORGANISMS AND VECTORS
101
Definitions
700
102
Licenses for biological products
706
103
Experimental production, distribution, and evaluation of biological products prior to licensing
709
104
Permits for biological products
711
105
Suspension, revocation, or termination of biological licenses or permits
714
106
Exemption for biological products used in department programs or under department control or supervision
715
107
Exemptions from preparation pursuant to an unsuspended and unrevoked license
716
108
Facility requirements for licensed establishments
717
109
Sterilization and pasteurization at licensed establishments
720
112
Packaging and labeling
721
113
Standard requirements
731
114
Production requirements for biological products
851
115
Inspections
862
116
Records and reports
862
117
Animals at licensed establishments
865
118
Detention; seizure and condemnation
867
121
Possession, use, and transfer of select agents and toxins
868
122
Organisms and vectors
890
123
Rules of practice governing proceedings under the Virus-Serum-Toxin Act
892
124
Patent term restoration
892

# SUBCHAPTER F—USER FEES
130
User fees
897

# SUBCHAPTER G—LIVESTOCK IMPROVEMENT
145
National Poultry Improvement Plan for Breeding Poultry
906
146
National Poultry Improvement Plan for Commercial Poultry
977
147
Auxiliary provisions on National Poultry Improvement Plan
990

# SUBCHAPTER H—ANIMAL BREEDS
151
Recognition of breeds and books of record of purebred animals
1000

# SUBCHAPTER I—VOLUNTARY INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION SERVICE
156
Voluntary inspection and certification service
1011

# SUBCHAPTER J—ACCREDITATION OF VETERINARIANS AND SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF SUCH ACCREDITATION
160
Definition of terms
1014
161
Requirements and standards for accredited veterinarians and suspension or revocation of such accreditation
1015
162
Rules of practice governing revocation or suspension of veterinarians' accreditation
1023

# SUBCHAPTER K—PUBLIC INFORMATION
165
Availability of information
1026

# SUBCHAPTER L—SWINE HEALTH PROTECTION
166
Swine health protection
1027
167
Rules of practice governing proceedings under the Swine Health Protection Act
1033
168-199
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—ANIMAL WELFARE
Pt. 1

# PART 1—DEFINITION OF TERMS

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2131-2159; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.7.
§ 1.1
Definitions.
For the purposes of this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in this section. The singular form shall also signify the plural and the masculine form shall also signify the feminine. Words undefined in the following paragraphs shall have the meaning attributed to them in general usage as reflected by definitions in a standard dictionary.
Act
means the Act of August 24, 1966 (Pub. L. 89-544), (commonly known as the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act), as amended by the Act of December 24, 1970 (Pub. L. 91-579), (the Animal Welfare Act of 1970), the Act of April 22, 1976 (Pub. L. 94-279), (the Animal Welfare Act of 1976), and the Act of December 23, 1985 (Pub. L. 99-198), (the Food Security Act of 1985), and as it may be subsequently amended.
Activity
means, for purposes of part 2, subpart C of this subchapter, those elements of research, testing, or teaching procedures that involve the care and use of animals.
Administrative unit
means the organizational or management unit at the departmental level of a research facility.
Administrator.
The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.
Ambient temperature
means the air temperature surrounding the animal.
Animal
means any live or dead dog, cat, nonhuman primate, guinea pig, hamster, rabbit, or any other warmblooded animal, which is being used, or is intended for use for research, teaching, testing, experimentation, or exhibition purposes, or as a pet. This term excludes birds, rats of the genus
Rattus,
and mice of the genus
Mus,
bred for use in research; horses not used for research purposes; and other farm animals, such as, but not limited to, livestock or poultry used or intended for use as food or fiber, or livestock or poultry used or intended for use for improving animal nutrition, breeding, management, or production efficiency, or for improving the quality of food or fiber. This term also excludes falconry. With respect to a dog, the term means all dogs, including those used for hunting, security, or breeding purposes.
Animal act
means any performance of animals where such animals are trained to perform some behavior or action or are part of a show, performance, or exhibition.
APHIS official
means any person employed by the Department who is authorized to perform a function under the Act and the regulations in 9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3.
Attending veterinarian
means a person who has graduated from a veterinary school accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association's Council on Education, or has a certificate issued by the American Veterinary Medical Association's Education Commission for Foreign Veterinary Graduates, or has received equivalent formal education as determined by the Administrator; has received training and/or experience in the care and management of the species being attended; and who has direct or delegated authority for activities involving animals at a facility subject to the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
Bird
means any member of the class Aves, excluding eggs, but including birds once the hatching process commences.
Bred for use in research
means an animal that is bred in captivity and used for research, teaching, testing, or experimentation purposes.
Buffer area
means that area in a primary enclosure for a swim-with-the-dolphin program that is off-limits to members of the public and that directly abuts the interactive area.
Business hours
means a reasonable number of hours between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. each week of the year, during which inspections by APHIS may be made.
Business year
means the 12-month period during which business is conducted, and may be either on a calendar or fiscal-year basis.
Carrier
means the operator of any airline, railroad, motor carrier, shipping line, or other enterprise which is engaged in the business of transporting any animals for hire. Except anyone transporting a migratory bird covered under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act from the wild to a facility for rehabilitation and eventual release in the wild, or between rehabilitation facilities, and has obtained authorization from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for that purpose, is not a “carrier”.
Cat
means any live or dead cat (Felis catus) or any cat-hybrid cross.
Class “A” licensee
(breeder) means a person subject to the licensing requirements under part 2 and meeting the definition of a “dealer” (§ 1.1), and whose business involving animals consists only of animals that are bred and raised on the premises in a closed or stable colony and those animals acquired for the sole purpose of maintaining or enhancing the breeding colony.
Class “B” licensee
means a person subject to the licensing requirements under part 2 and meeting the definition of a “dealer” (§ 1.1), and whose business includes the purchase and/or resale of any animal. This term includes brokers, and operators of an auction sale, as such individuals negotiate or arrange for the purchase, sale, or transport of animals in commerce. Such individuals do not usually take actual physical possession or control of the animals, and do not usually hold animals in any facilities. A class “B” licensee may also exhibit animals as a minor part of the business.
Class “C” licensee
(exhibitor) means a person subject to the licensing requirements under part 2 and meeting the definition of an “exhibitor” (§ 1.1), and whose business involves the showing or displaying of animals to the public. A class “C” licensee may buy and sell animals as a minor part of the business in order to maintain or add to his animal collection.
Commerce
means trade, traffic, transportation, or other commerce:
(1) Between a place in a State and any place outside of such State, including any foreign country, or between points within the same State but through any place outside thereof, or within any territory, possession, or the District of Columbia; or
(2) Which affects the commerce described in this part.
Committee
means the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) established under section 13(b) of the Act. It shall consist of at least three (3) members, one of whom is the attending veterinarian of the research facility and one of whom is not affiliated in any way with the facility other than as a member of the committee, however, if the research facility has more than one Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM), another DVM with delegated program responsibility may serve. The research facility shall establish the Committee for the purpose of evaluating the care, treatment, housing, and use of animals, and for certifying compliance with the Act by the research facility.
Dealer
means any person who, in commerce, for compensation or profit, delivers for transportation, or transports, except as a carrier, buys, or sells, or negotiates the purchase or sale of: Any dog or other animal whether alive or dead (including unborn animals, organs, limbs, blood, serum, or other parts) for research, teaching, testing, experimentation, exhibition, or use as a pet; or any dog at the wholesale level for hunting, security, or breeding purposes. This term does not include: A retail pet store, as defined in this section; and any retail outlet where dogs are sold for hunting, breeding, or security purposes.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Deputy Administrator
means the Deputy Administrator for Animal Care (AC) or any other official of AC to whom authority has been delegated to act in his stead.
Dog
means any live or dead dog (
Canis familiaris
) or any dog-hybrid cross.
Dwarf hamster
means any species of hamster such as the Chinese and Armenian species whose adult body size is substantially less than that attained by the Syrian or Golden species of hamsters.
Endangered species
means those species defined in the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
) and as it may be subsequently amended.
Euthanasia
means the humane destruction of an animal accomplished by a method that produces rapid unconsciousness and subsequent death without evidence of pain or distress, or a method that utilizes anesthesia produced by an agent that causes painless loss of consciousness and subsequent death
Exhibitor
means any person (public or private) exhibiting any animals, which were purchased in commerce or the intended distribution of which affects commerce, or will affect commerce, to the public for compensation, as determined by the Secretary. This term includes carnivals, circuses, animal acts (including free-flighted bird shows), zoos, and educational exhibits, exhibiting such animals whether operated for profit or not. This term excludes retail pet stores, horse, dog, and pigeon races, an owner of a common, domesticated household pet who derives less than a substantial portion of income from a nonprimary source (as determined by the Secretary) for exhibiting an animal that exclusively resides at the residence of the pet owner, organizations sponsoring and all persons participating in State and country fairs, livestock shows, rodeos, field trials, coursing events, falconry, purebred dog and cat shows, bird fancier shows, and any other fairs or exhibitions intended to advance agricultural arts and sciences, as may be determined by the Secretary.
Exotic animal
means any animal not identified in the definition of “animal” provided in this part that is native to a foreign country or of foreign origin or character, is not native to the United States, or was introduced from abroad. This term specifically includes animals such as, but not limited to, lions, tigers, leopards, elephants, camels, antelope, anteaters, kangaroos, and water buffalo, and species of foreign domestic cattle, such as Ankole, Gayal, and Yak.
Farm animal
means any domestic species of cattle, sheep, swine, goats, llamas, horses, or poultry, which are normally and have historically been kept and raised on farms in the United States and used or intended for use as food or fiber, or for improving animal nutrition, breeding, management, or production efficiency, or for improving the quality of food or fiber. This term also includes animals such as rabbits, mink, chinchilla, and ratites when they are used solely for purposes of meat, fur, feathers, or skin, and animals such as horses and llamas when used solely as work and pack animals.
Federal agency
means an Executive agency as such term is defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, and with respect to any research facility means the agency from which the research facility receives a Federal award for the conduct of research, experimentation, or testing involving the use of animals.
Federal award
means any mechanism (including a grant, award, loan, contract, or cooperative agreement) under which Federal funds are used to support the conduct of research, experimentation, or testing, involving the use of animals. The permit system established under the authorities of the Endangered Species Act, the Marine Mammal Protection Act, and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, are not considered to be Federal awards under the Animal Welfare Act.
Federal research facility
means each department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States which uses live animals for research or experimentation.
Field study
means a study conducted on free-living wild animals in their natural habitat. However, this term excludes any study that involves an invasive procedure, harms, or materially alters the behavior of an animal under study.
Handling
means petting, feeding, watering, cleaning, manipulating, loading, crating, shifting, transferring, immobilizing, restraining, treating, training, working and moving, or any similar activity with respect to any animal.
Housing facility
means any land, premises, shed, barn, building, trailer, or other structure or area housing or intended to house animals.
Hybrid cross
means an animal resulting from the crossbreeding between
two different species or types of animals. Crosses between wild animal species, such as lions and tigers, are considered to be wild animals. Crosses between wild animal species and domestic animals, such as dogs and wolves or buffalo and domestic cattle, are considered to be domestic animals.
Impervious surface
means a surface that does not permit the absorption of fluids. Such surfaces are those that can be thoroughly and repeatedly cleaned and disinfected, will not retain odors, and from which fluids bead up and run off or can be removed without their being absorbed into the surface material.
Indoor housing facility
means any structure or building with environmental controls housing or intended to house animals and meeting the following three requirements:
(1) It must be capable of controlling the temperature within the building or structure within the limits set forth for that species of animal, of maintaining humidity levels of 30 to 70 percent and of rapidly eliminating odors from within the building; and
(2) It must be an enclosure created by the continuous connection of a roof, floor, and walls (a shed or barn set on top of the ground does not have a continuous connection between the walls and the ground unless a foundation and floor are provided); and
(3) It must have at least one door for entry and exit that can be opened and closed (any windows or openings which provide natural light must be covered with a transparent material such as glass or hard plastic).
Interactive area
means that area in a primary enclosure for a swim-with-the-dolphin program where an interactive session takes place.
Interactive session
means a swim-with-the-dolphin program session where members of the public enter a primary enclosure to interact with cetaceans.
Intermediate handler
means any person, including a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local government (other than a dealer, research facility, exhibitor, any person excluded from the definition of a dealer, research facility, or exhibitor, an operator of an auction sale, or a carrier), who is engaged in any business in which he receives custody of animals in connection with their transportation in commerce. Except anyone transporting a migratory bird covered under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act from the wild to a facility for rehabilitation and eventual release in the wild, or between rehabilitation facilities, and has obtained authorization from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for that purpose, is not an “intermediate handler”.
Inspector
means any person employed by the Department who is authorized to perform a function under the Act and the regulations in 9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3.
Institutional official
means the individual at a research facility who is authorized to legally commit on behalf of the research facility that the requirements of 9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3 will be met.
Isolation
in regard to marine mammals means the physical separation of animals to prevent contact and a separate, noncommon, water circulation and filtration system for the isolated animals.
Licensed veterinarian
means a person who has graduated from an accredited school of veterinary medicine or has received equivalent formal education as determined by the Administrator, and who has a valid license to practice veterinary medicine in some State.
Licensee
means any person licensed according to the provisions of the Act and the regulations in part 2 of this subchapter.
Major operative procedure
means any surgical intervention that penetrates and exposes a body cavity or any procedure which produces permanent impairment of physical or physiological functions.
Minimum horizontal dimension
(MHD) means the diameter of a circular pool of water, or in the case of a square, rectangle, oblong, or other shape pool, the diameter of the largest circle that can be inserted within the confines of such a pool of water.
Mobile or traveling housing facility
means a transporting vehicle such as a truck, trailer, or railway car, used to house animals while traveling for exhibition or public education purposes.
Nonconditioned animals
means animals which have not been subjected to special care and treatment for sufficient time to stabilize, and where necessary, to improve their health.
Nonhuman primate
means any nonhuman member of the highest order of mammals including prosimians, monkeys, and apes.
Operator of an auction sale
means any person who is engaged in operating an auction at which animals are purchased or sold in commerce.
Outdoor housing facility
means any structure, building, land, or premise, housing or intended to house animals, which does not meet the definition of any other type of housing facility provided in the regulations, and in which temperatures cannot be controlled within set limits.
Painful procedure
as applied to any animal means any procedure that would reasonably be expected to cause more than slight or momentary pain or distress in a human being to which that procedure was applied, that is, pain in excess of that caused by injections or other minor procedures.
Paralytic drug
means a drug which causes partial or complete loss of muscle contraction and which has no anesthetic or analgesic properties, so that the animal cannot move, but is completely aware of its surroundings and can feel pain.
Person
means any individual, partnership, firm, joint stock company, corporation, association, trust, estate, or other legal entity.
Pet animal
means any animal that has commonly been kept as a pet in family households in the United States, such as dogs, cats, guinea pigs, rabbits, hamsters, and birds. This term also includes but is not limited to such birds as canaries, cockatiels, lovebirds, and budgerigar parakeets. This term excludes exotic animals and wild animals.
Positive physical contact
means petting, stroking, or other touching, which is beneficial to the well-being of the animal.
Poultry
means any species of chickens, turkeys, swans, partridges, guinea fowl, and pea fowl; ducks, geese, pigeons, and doves; grouse, pheasants, and quail.
Pound or shelter
means a facility that accepts and/or seizes animals for the purpose of caring for them, placing them through adoption, or carrying out law enforcement, whether or not the facility is operated for profit.
Primary conveyance
means the main method of transportation used to convey an animal from origin to destination, such as a motor vehicle, plane, ship, or train.
Primary enclosure
means any structure or device used to restrict an animal or animals to a limited amount of space, such as a room, pen, run, cage, compartment, pool, or hutch.
Principal investigator
means an employee of a research facility, or other person associated with a research facility, responsible for a proposal to conduct research and for the design and implementation of research involving animals.
Quorum
means a majority of the Committee members.
Random source
means dogs and cats obtained from animal pounds or shelters, auction sales, or from any person who did not breed and raise them on his or her premises.
Registrant
means any research facility, carrier, intermediate handler, or exhibitor not required to be licensed under section 3 of the Act, registered pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the regulations in part 2 of this subchapter.
Research facility
means any school (except an elementary or secondary school), institution, organization, or person that uses or intends to use live animals in research, tests, or experiments, and that (1) purchases or transports live animals in commerce, or (2) receives funds under a grant, award, loan, or contract from a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States for the purpose of carrying out research, tests, or experiments:
Provided,
That the Administrator may exempt, by regulation, any such school, institution, organization, or person that does not use or intend to use live dogs or cats, except those schools, institutions, organizations, or persons, which use substantial numbers (as determined by the Administrator) of live animals the principal function
of which schools, institutions, organizations, or persons, is biomedical research or testing, when in the judgment of the Administrator, any such exemption does not vitiate the purpose of the Act.
Retail pet store
means a place of business or residence at which the seller, buyer, and the animal available for sale are physically present so that every buyer may personally observe the animal prior to purchasing and/or taking custody of that animal after purchase, and where only the following animals are sold or offered for sale, at retail, for use as pets: Dogs, cats, rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, gerbils, rats, mice, gophers, chinchillas, domesticated ferrets, domesticated farm-type animals, birds, and coldblooded species. Such definition excludes -
(1) Establishments or persons who deal in dogs used for hunting, security, or breeding purposes;
(2) Establishments or persons exhibiting, selling, or offering to exhibit or sell any wild or exotic or other nonpet species of warmblooded animals such as skunks, raccoons, nonhuman primates, squirrels, ocelots, foxes, coyotes, etc.;
(3) Any establishment or person selling warmblooded animals (except laboratory rats and mice) for research or exhibition purposes;
(4) Any establishment wholesaling any animals (except rats and mice); and
(5) Any establishment exhibiting pet animals in a room that is separate from or adjacent to the retail pet store, or in an outside area, or anywhere off the retail pet store premises.
Sanctuary area
means that area in a primary enclosure for a swim-with-the-dolphin program that is off-limits to the public and that directly abuts the buffer area.
Sanitize
means to make physically clean and to remove and destroy, to the maximum degree that is practical, agents injurious to health.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or his representative who shall be an employee of the Department.
Sheltered housing facility
means a housing facility which provides the animals with shelter; protection from the elements; and protection from temperature extremes at all times. A sheltered housing facility may consist of runs or pens totally enclosed in a barn or building, or of connecting inside/outside runs or pens with the inside pens in a totally enclosed building.
Standards
means the requirements with respect to the humane housing, exhibition, handling, care, treatment, temperature, and transportation of animals by dealers, exhibitors research facilities, carriers, intermediate handlers, and operators of auction sales as set forth in part 3 of this subchapter.
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
Study area
means any building room, area, enclosure, or other containment outside of a core facility or centrally designated or managed area in which animals are housed for more than 12 hours.
Swim-with-the-dolphin (SWTD) program
means any human-cetacean interactive program in which a member of the public enters the primary enclosure in which an SWTD designated cetacean is housed to interact with the animal. This interaction includes, but such inclusions are not limited to, wading, swimming, snorkeling, or scuba diving in the enclosure. This interaction excludes, but such exclusions are not limited to, feeding and petting pools, and the participation of any member(s) of the public audience as a minor segment of an educational presentation or performance of a show.
Transporting device
means an interim vehicle or device, other than man, used to transport an animal between the primary conveyance and the terminal facility or in and around the terminal facility of a carrier or intermediate handler.
Transporting vehicle
means any truck, car, trailer, airplane, ship, or railroad car used for transporting animals.
Weaned
means that a mammal has become accustomed to take solid food and has so done, without nursing, for a period of at least 5 consecutive days; or that a bird has become accustomed to
take food and has so done, without supplemental feeding from a parent or human caretaker, for a period of at least 5 consecutive days.
Wild animal
means any animal which is now or historically has been found in the wild, or in the wild state, within the boundaries of the United States, its territories, or possessions. This term includes, but is not limited to, animals such as: Deer, skunk, opossum, raccoon, mink, armadillo, coyote, squirrel, fox, wolf.
Wild state
means living in its original, natural condition; not domesticated.
Zoo
means any park, building, cage, enclosure, or other structure or premise in which a live animal or animals are kept for public exhibition or viewing, regardless of compensation.
[54 FR 36119, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 12631, Apr. 5, 1990; 58 FR 39129, July 22, 1993; 62 FR 43275, Aug. 13, 1997; 63 FR 47148, Sept. 4, 1998; 63 FR 62926, Nov. 10, 1998; 65 FR 6314, Feb. 9, 2000; 68 FR 12285, Mar. 14, 2003; 69 FR 31514, June 4, 2004; 69 FR 42099, July 14, 2004; 78 FR 57249, Sept. 18, 2013; 83 FR 25554, June 4, 2018; 85 FR 28795, May 13, 2020; 88 FR 10712, Feb. 21, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
At 64 FR 15920, Apr. 2, 1999, the definitions of
buffer area, interactive area, interactive session, sanctuary area,
and
swim-with-the-dolphin (SWTD) program
were suspended, effective Apr. 2, 1999.
Pt. 2

# PART 2—REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Licensing
Sec.
2.1
Requirements and application.
2.2
Acknowledgement of regulations and standards.
2.3
Demonstration of compliance with standards and regulations.
2.4
Non-interference with APHIS officials.
2.5
Duration of license and termination of license.
2.6-2.8
[Reserved]
2.9
Officers, agents, and employees of licensees whose licenses have been suspended or revoked.
2.10
Licensees whose licenses have been suspended or revoked.
2.11
Denial of license application.
2.12
Termination of a license.
2.13
Appeal of inspection report.

# Subpart B—Registration
2.25
Requirements and procedures.
2.26
Acknowledgement of regulations and standards.
2.27
Notification of change of operation.

# Subpart C—Research Facilities
2.30
Registration.
2.31
Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC).
2.32
Personnel qualifications.
2.33
Attending veterinarian and adequate veterinary care.
2.34
[Reserved]
2.35
Recordkeeping requirements.
2.36
Annual report.
2.37
Federal research facilities.
2.38
Miscellaneous.

# Subpart D—Attending Veterinarian and Adequate Veterinary Care
2.40
Attending veterinarian and adequate veterinary care (dealers and exhibitors).

# Subpart E—Identification of Animals
2.50
Time and method of identification.
2.51
Form of official tag.
2.52
How to obtain tags.
2.53
Use of tags.
2.54
Lost tags.
2.55
Removal and disposal of tags.

# Subpart F—Stolen Animals
2.60
Prohibition on the purchase, sale, use, or transportation of stolen animals.

# Subpart G—Records
2.75
Records: Dealers and exhibitors.
2.76
Records: Operators of auction sales and brokers.
2.77
Records: Carriers and intermediate handlers.
2.78
Health certification and identification.
2.79
C.O.D. shipments.
2.80
Records, disposition.

# Subpart H—Compliance With Standards and Holding Period
2.100
Compliance with standards.
2.101
Holding period.
2.102
Holding facility.

# Subpart I—Miscellaneous
2.125
Information as to business; furnishing of same by dealers, exhibitors, operators of auction sales, intermediate handlers, and carriers.
2.126
Access and inspection of records and property; submission of itineraries.
2.127
Publication of lists of persons subject to the provisions of this part.
2.128
Inspection for missing animals.
2.129
Confiscation and destruction of animals.
2.130
Minimum age requirements.
2.131
Handling of animals.
2.132
Procurement of dogs, cats, and other animals; dealers.
2.133
Certification for random source dogs and cats.
2.134
Contingency planning.

# Subpart J—Importation of Live Dogs
2.150
Import permit.
2.151
Certifications.
2.152
Notification of arrival.
2.153
Dogs refused entry.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2131-2159; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.7.

# Source:
54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Licensing
§ 2.1
Requirements and application.
(a)(1) No person shall operate as a dealer, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale, without a valid license, except persons who are exempt from the licensing requirements under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. A person must be 18 years of age or older to obtain a license. A person seeking a license shall apply on a form which will be furnished by the Deputy Administrator. The applicant shall provide the information requested on the application form, including, but not limited to:
(i) The name of the person applying for the license;
(ii) A valid mailing address through which the applicant can be reached at all times;
(iii) Valid addresses for all locations, facilities, premises, or sites where animals, animal facilities, equipment, and records are held, kept, or maintained;
(iv) The anticipated maximum number of animals on hand at any one time during the period of licensure;
(v) The anticipated type of animals described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section to be owned, held, maintained, sold, or exhibited, including those animals leased, during the period of licensure;
(vi) If the person is seeking a license as an exhibitor, whether the person intends to exhibit any animal at any location other than the person's location(s) listed pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section; and
(vii) Disclosure of any plea of
nolo contendere
(no contest) or finding of violation of Federal, State, or local laws or regulations pertaining to animal cruelty or the transportation, ownership, neglect, or welfare of animals.
(2) The completed application form, along with a $120 license fee, shall be submitted to the appropriate Animal Care office.
(3) The following persons are exempt from the licensing requirements under section 2 or section 3 of the Act:
(i) Retail pet stores as defined in part 1 of this subchapter;
(ii) Any person who sells or negotiates the sale or purchase of any animal except wild or exotic animals, dogs, or cats, and who derives no more than $500 gross income from the sale of such animals during any calendar year and is not otherwise required to obtain a license;
(iii) Any person who maintains a total of four or fewer breeding female pet animals as defined in part 1 of this subchapter, small exotic or wild mammals (such as hedgehogs, degus, spiny mice, prairie dogs, flying squirrels, jerboas, domesticated ferrets, chinchillas, and gerbils), and/or domesticated farm-type animals (such as cows, goats, pigs, sheep, llamas, and alpacas) and sells only the offspring of these animals, which were born and raised on his or her premises, for pets or exhibition, and is not otherwise required to obtain a license. This exemption does not extend to any person residing in a household that collectively maintains a total of more than four of these breeding female animals, regardless of ownership, or to any person maintaining such breeding female animals on premises on which more than four of these breeding female animals are maintained, or to any person acting in concert with others where they collectively maintain a total of more than four of these breeding female animals, regardless of ownership. Also exempt from licensing is any person who sells 200 or fewer pet birds 250 grams or less annually, and/or sells 8 or fewer pet birds more than 250 grams annually, determined by average adult weight of the species, which were born and raised on his or her premises, for
pets or exhibition, and is not otherwise required to obtain a license. This exemption does not extend to any person residing in a household that collectively sells more than 200 pet birds 250 grams or less annually, and/or sells more than 8 pet birds more than 250 grams annually, regardless of ownership;
(iv) Any person who sells fewer than 25 dogs and/or cats per year, which were born and raised on his or her premises, for research, teaching, or testing purposes or to any research facility and is not otherwise required to obtain a license. This exemption does not extend to any person residing in a household that collectively sells 25 or more dogs and/or cats, regardless of ownership, nor to any person acting in concert with others where they collectively sell 25 or more dogs and/or cats, regardless of ownership. The sale of any dog or cat not born and raised on the premises for research purposes requires a license;
(v) Any person who arranges for transportation or transports animals solely for the purpose of breeding, exhibiting in purebred shows, boarding (not in association with commercial transportation), grooming, or medical treatment, and is not otherwise required to obtain a license;
(vi) Any person who buys, sells, transports, or negotiates the sale, purchase, or transportation of any animals used only for the purposes of food, feathers, skin, or fiber (including fur);
(vii) Any person who maintains a total of eight or fewer pet animals as defined in part 1 of this subchapter, small exotic or wild mammals (such as hedgehogs, degus, spiny mice, prairie dogs, flying squirrels, jerboas, domesticated ferrets, chinchillas, and gerbils), and/or domesticated farm-type animals (such as cows, goats, pigs, sheep, llamas, and alpacas) for exhibition, and is not otherwise required to obtain a license. This exemption does not extend to any person acting in concert with others where they collectively maintain a total of more than eight of these animals for exhibition, regardless of possession and/or ownership;
(viii) Any person who maintains a total of four or fewer raptors for exhibition, holds a valid permit from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and is not otherwise required to obtain a license. This exemption does not extend to any person acting in concert with others where they collectively maintain a total of more than four raptors for exhibition, regardless of possession and/or ownership;
(ix) Any person who buys animals solely for his or her own use or enjoyment and does not sell or exhibit animals, or is not otherwise required to obtain a license;
(b)(1) No person shall have more than one license. Licenses are issued to specific persons, and are issued for specific activities, types and numbers of animals, and approved sites. A new license must be obtained upon change of ownership, location, activities, or animals. A licensee shall notify Animal Care no fewer than 90 days and obtain a new license before any change in the name, address, substantial control or ownership of his business or operation, locations, activities, and number or type of animals described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Any person who is subject to the regulations in this subchapter and who intends to exhibit any animal at any location other than the person's approved site must provide that information on their application form in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section and submit written itineraries in accordance with § 2.126.
(2) Licenses authorize a specific number and specific type(s) of animals, as follows:
(i) Licenses authorize increments of 50 animals on hand at any single point in time during the period of licensure. A licensee must obtain a new license before any change resulting in more than the authorized number of animals on hand at any single point in time during the period of licensure.
(ii) Licenses authorize the use of animals subject to subparts A through G in part 3 of this subchapter, except that, for animals subject to subparts D and F, licenses must specifically authorize the use of each of the following groups of animals: Group 5 (baboons and nonbrachiating species larger than 33 pounds) and Group 6 (great apes over 55 pounds and brachiating species) nonhuman primates; exotic and wild
felids (including but not limited to lions, tigers, leopards, cheetahs, jaguars, cougars, lynx, servals, bobcats, and caracals, and any hybrid cross thereof); hyenas and/or exotic and wild canids (including but not limited to wolves, coyotes, foxes, and jackals); bears; and mega-herbivores (including but not limited to elephants, rhinoceroses, hippopotamuses, and giraffes). A licensee must obtain a new license before using any animal beyond those types or numbers of animals authorized under the existing license. Notwithstanding these provisions, a licensee in possession of birds on March 23, 2023, may continue to operate under that license until its scheduled expiration date. APHIS encourages such persons to apply for a new license at least 90 days before expiration of the current one.
(c) A license will be issued to any applicant, except as provided in §§ 2.9 through 2.11, when:
(1) The applicant has met the requirements of this section and §§ 2.2 and 2.3; and
(2) The applicant has paid a $120 license fee to the appropriate Animal Care office. The applicant may pay the fee by certified check, cashier's check, personal check, money order, or credit card. An applicant whose check is returned by a bank will be charged a fee of $20 for each returned check. If an applicant's check is returned, subsequent fees must be paid by certified check, cashier's check, money order, or credit card.
(d) The failure of any person to comply with any provision of the Act, or any of the provisions of the regulations or standards in this subchapter, shall constitute grounds for denial of a license or for its suspension or revocation by the Secretary, as provided in the Act.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036, 0579-0470, and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 63 FR 62926, Nov. 10, 1998; 69 FR 42099, July 14, 2004; 78 FR 57249, Sept. 18, 2013; 83 FR 25555, June 4, 2018; 85 FR 28795, May 13, 2020; 88 FR 10713, Feb. 21, 2023; 88 FR 16173, Mar. 16, 2023]
§ 2.2
Acknowledgement of regulations and standards.
Animal Care will supply a copy of the Act and the regulations and standards in this subchapter to an applicant upon request. Signing the application form is an acknowledgement that the applicant has reviewed the Act and the regulations and standards and agrees to comply with them.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036, 0579-0470, and 0579-0486)
[85 FR 28796, May 13, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 10713, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.3
Demonstration of compliance with standards and regulations.
(a) Each applicant for a license must demonstrate that his or her location(s) and any animals, facilities, vehicles, equipment, or other locations used or intended for use in the business comply with the Act and the regulations and standards set forth in parts 2 and 3 of this subchapter. Each applicant must make his or her animals, locations, facilities, vehicles, equipment, and records available for inspection during business hours and at other times mutually agreeable to the applicant and APHIS, to ascertain the applicant's compliance with the Act and the regulations and standards.
(b) Each applicant for a license must be inspected by APHIS and demonstrate compliance with the Act and the regulations and standards, as required in paragraph (a) of this section, before APHIS will issue a license. If the first inspection reveals that the applicant's animals, premises, facilities, vehicles, equipment, locations, or records do not meet the applicable requirements of this subchapter, APHIS will advise the applicant of existing deficiencies and the corrective measures that must be completed to come into compliance with the regulations and standards. An applicant who fails the first inspection may request up to two more inspections by APHIS to demonstrate his or her compliance with the Act and the regulations and standards. The applicant must request the second inspection, and if applicable, the third inspection, within 60 days following the first inspection.
(c) Any applicant who fails the third and final prelicense inspection may appeal all or part of the inspection findings to the Deputy Administrator. To appeal, the applicant must send a written statement contesting the inspection finding(s) and include any documentation or other information in support of the appeal. To receive consideration, the appeal must be received by the Deputy Administrator within 7 days of the date the applicant received the third prelicense inspection report. Within 7 days of receiving a timely appeal, the Deputy Administrator will issue a written response to notify the applicant whether APHIS will issue a license or deny the application.
(d) If an applicant fails inspection or fails to request reinspections within the 60-day period, or fails to submit a timely appeal of the third prelicense inspection report as described in paragraph (c) of this section, the applicant cannot reapply for a license for a period of 6 months from the date of the failed third inspection or the expiration of the time to request a third inspection. No license will be issued until the applicant pays the license fee and demonstrates upon inspection that the animals, premises, facilities, vehicles, equipment, locations, and records are in compliance with all applicable requirements in the Act and the regulations and standards in this subchapter.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[85 FR 28796, May 13, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 10713, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.4
Non-interference with APHIS officials.
A licensee or applicant for an initial license shall not interfere with, threaten, abuse (including verbally abuse), or harass any APHIS official in the course of carrying out his or her duties.
§ 2.5
Duration of license and termination of license.
(a) A license issued under this part shall be valid and effective for 3 years unless:
(1) The license has been revoked or suspended pursuant to section 19 of the Act or terminated pursuant to § 2.12.
(2) The license is voluntarily terminated upon request of the licensee, in writing, to the Deputy Administrator.
(3) The license has expired, except that:
(i) The Deputy Administrator may issue a temporary license, which automatically expires after 120 days, to an applicant whose immediately preceding 3-year license has expired, if:
(A) The applicant submits the appropriate application form before the expiration date of a preceding license; and
(B) The applicant had no noncompliances with the Act and the regulations and standards in parts 2 and 3 of this subchapter documented in any inspection report during the preceding period of licensure.
(ii) For expedited hearings occurring under § 2.11(b)(2), a license will remain valid and effective until the administrative law judge issues his or her initial decision. Should the administrative law judge's initial decision affirm the denial of the license application, the applicant's license shall terminate immediately.
(4) There will not be a refund of the license fee if a license is denied, or terminated, suspended, or revoked prior to its expiration date.
(b) Any person who seeks the reinstatement of a license that has expired or been terminated must follow the procedure applicable to new applicants for a license set forth in § 2.1.
(c) A license which is invalid under this part shall be surrendered to the Deputy Administrator. If the license cannot be found, the licensee shall provide a written statement so stating to the Deputy Administrator.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[85 FR 28796, May 13, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 10713, Feb. 21, 2023]
§§ 2.6-2.8
[Reserved]
§ 2.9
Officers, agents, and employees of licensees whose licenses have been suspended or revoked.
Any person who has been or is an officer, agent, or employee of a licensee whose license has been suspended or revoked and who was responsible for or participated in the activity upon which
the order of suspension or revocation was based will not be licensed, or registered as a carrier, intermediate handler, dealer, exhibitor, or research facility, within the period during which the order of suspension or revocation is in effect.
[85 FR 28796, May 13, 2020]
§ 2.10
Licensees whose licenses have been suspended or revoked.
(a) Any person whose license or registration has been suspended for any reason shall not be licensed, or registered, in his or her own name or in any other manner, within the period during which the order of suspension is in effect. No partnership, firm, corporation, or other legal entity in which any such person has a substantial interest, financial or otherwise, will be licensed or registered during that period. Any person whose license has been suspended for any reason may apply to the Deputy Administrator, in writing, for reinstatement of his or her license or registration.
(b) Any person whose license has been revoked shall not be licensed or registered, in his or her own name or in any other manner, and no partnership, firm, corporation, or other legal entity in which any such person has a substantial interest, financial or otherwise, will be licensed or registered.
(c) Any person whose license has been suspended or revoked shall not buy, sell, transport, exhibit, or deliver for transportation, any animal during the period of suspension or revocation, under any circumstances, whether on his or her behalf or on the behalf of another licensee or registrant.
[85 FR 28796, May 13, 2020]
§ 2.11
Denial of license application.
(a) A license will not be issued to any applicant who:
(1) Has not complied with the requirements of §§ 2.1 through 2.4 and has not paid the fees indicated in § 2.1;
(2) Is not in compliance with the Act or any of the regulations or standards in this subchapter;
(3) Has had a license revoked or whose license is suspended, as set forth in § 2.1(d);
(4) Was an officer, agent, or employee of a licensee whose license has been suspended or revoked and who was responsible for or participated in the activity upon which the order of suspension or revocation was based, as set forth in § 2.9;
(5) Has pled
nolo contendere
(no contest) or has been found to have violated any Federal, State, or local laws or regulations pertaining to animal cruelty within 3 years of application, or after 3 years if the Administrator determines that the circumstances render the applicant unfit to be licensed;
(6) Is or would be operating in violation or circumvention of any Federal, State, or local laws; or
(7) Has made any false or fraudulent statements or provided any false or fraudulent records to the Department or other government agencies, or has pled
nolo contendere
(no contest) or has been found to have violated any Federal, State, or local laws or regulations pertaining to the transportation, ownership, neglect, or welfare of animals, or is otherwise unfit to be licensed and the Administrator determines that the issuance of a license would be contrary to the purposes of the Act.
(b)(1) An applicant whose initial license application has been denied may request a hearing in accordance with the applicable rules of practice in 7 CFR part 1 for the purpose of showing why the application for license should not be denied. The denial of an initial license application shall remain in effect until the final decision has been rendered. Should the license denial be upheld, the applicant may again apply for a license 1 year from the date of the final order denying the application, unless the order provides otherwise.
(2) An applicant who submitted a timely appeal of a third prelicense inspection as described in § 2.3(c), and whose appeal results in the denial of the license application, may request an expedited hearing if the applicant held a valid license when he or she submitted the license application that has been denied and the Deputy Administrator received such license application
no fewer than 90 days prior to the expiration of the valid license. If the applicant meets the criteria in this paragraph (b)(2), and notwithstanding the timeframes of the proceedings set forth in the applicable rules of practice (7 CFR 1.130 through 1.151):
(i) The applicant must submit the request for an expedited hearing within 30 days of receiving notice from the Deputy Administrator that the license application has been denied;
(ii) The administrative law judge shall set the expedited hearing so that it occurs within 30 days of receiving a timely request for expedited hearing as described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section; and
(iii) The administrative law judge must issue an initial decision no later than 30 days after the expedited hearing.
(iv) The applicant's license will remain valid until the administrative law judge issues his or her initial decision. Should the administrative law judge's initial decision affirm the denial of the license application, the applicant's license shall terminate immediately.
(c) No partnership, firm, corporation, or other legal entity in which a person whose license application has been denied has a substantial interest, financial or otherwise, will be licensed within 1 year of the license denial.
(d) No license will be issued under circumstances that the Administrator determines would circumvent any order, stipulation, or settlement agreement suspending, revoking, terminating, or denying a license or disqualifying a person from engaging in activities under the Act.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[85 FR 28797, May 13, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 10713, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.12
Termination of a license.
A license may be terminated at any time for any reason that a license application may be denied pursuant to § 2.11 after a hearing in accordance with the applicable rules of practice in 7 CFR part 1.
[85 FR 28797, May 13, 2020]
§ 2.13
Appeal of inspection report.
Except as otherwise provided in § 2.3(c), any licensee or registrant may appeal all or part of the inspection findings in an inspection report to the Deputy Administrator. To appeal, the licensee or registrant must send a written statement contesting the inspection finding(s) and include any documentation or other information in support of the appeal. To receive consideration, the appeal must be received by the Deputy Administrator within 21 days of the date the licensee or registrant received the inspection report that is the subject of the appeal.
[85 FR 28797, May 13, 2020]

# Subpart B—Registration
§ 2.25
Requirements and procedures.
(a) Each carrier and intermediate handler, and each exhibitor not required to be licensed under section 3 of the Act and the regulations of this subchapter, shall register with the Secretary by completing and filing a properly executed form which will be furnished, upon request, by the Deputy Administrator. The registration form shall be filed with the Deputy Administrator for the State in which the registrant has his or her principal place of business, and shall be updated every 3 years by the completion and filing of a new registration form which will be provided by the Deputy Administrator.
(b) A subsidiary of a business corporation, rather than the parent corporation, will be registered as an exhibitor unless the subsidiary is under such direct control of the parent corporation that the Secretary determines that it is necessary that the parent corporation be registered to effectuate the purposes of the Act.
(c) No registrant or person required to be registered shall interfere with, threaten, abuse (including verbally abuse), or harass any APHIS official
who is in the course of carrying out his or her duties.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 63 FR 62926, Nov. 10, 1998; 69 FR 42101, July 14, 2004; 85 FR 28797, May 13, 2020; 88 FR 10713, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.26
Acknowledgment of regulations and standards.
APHIS will supply a copy of the regulations and standards in this subchapter with each registration form. The registrant shall acknowledge receipt of and shall agree to comply with the regulations and standards by signing a form provided for this purpose by APHIS, and by filing it with the Deputy Administrator.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 63 FR 62926, Nov. 10, 1998; 85 FR 28797, May 13, 2020; 88 FR 10713, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.27
Notification of change of operation.
(a) A registrant shall notify the Deputy Administrator by certified mail of any change in the name, address, or ownership, or other change in operations affecting its status as an exhibitor, carrier, or intermediate handler, within 10 days after making such change.
(b)(1) A registrant which has not used, handled, or transported animals for a period of at least 2 years may be placed in an inactive status by making a written request to the Deputy Administrator a registrant shall notify the Deputy Administrator in writing at least 10 days before using, handling, or transporting animals again after being in an inactive status.
(2) A registrant which goes out of business or which ceases to function as a carrier, intermediate handler, or exhibitor, or which changes its method of operation so that it no longer uses, handles, or transports animals, and which does not plan to use, handle, or transport animals again at any time in the future, may have its registration canceled by making a written request to the Deputy Administrator. The former registrant is responsible for reregistering and demonstrating its compliance with the Act and regulations should it start using, handling, or transporting animals at any time after its registration is canceled.
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 63 FR 62926, Nov. 10, 1998; 85 FR 28797, May 13, 2020]

# Subpart C—Research Facilities
§ 2.30
Registration.
(a)
Requirements and procedures.
(1) Each research facility, other than a Federal research facility, shall register with the Secretary by completing and filing a properly executed form which will be furnished, upon request, by the Deputy Administrator. The registration form shall be filed with the Deputy Administrator. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, where a school or department of a university or college uses or intends to use live animals for research, tests, experiments, or teaching, the university or college rather than the school or department will be considered the research facility and will be required to register with the Secretary. An official who has the legal authority to bind the parent organization shall sign the registration form.
(2) In any situation in which a school or department of a university or college demonstrates to the Secretary that it is a separate legal entity and its operations and administration are independent of those of the university or college, the school or department will be registered rather than the university or college.
(3) A subsidiary of a business corporation, rather than the parent corporation, will be registered as a research facility unless the subsidiary is under such direct control of the parent corporation that the Secretary determines that it is necessary that the parent corporation be registered to effectuate the purposes of the Act.
(b)
Acknowledgment of regulations and standards.
APHIS will supply a copy of the regulations and standards in this subchapter with each registration form. The research facility shall acknowledge receipt of and shall agree to
comply with the regulations and standards by signing a form provided for this purpose by APHIS, and by filing it with the Deputy Administrator.
(c)
Notification of change of operation.
A research facility shall notify the Deputy Administrator in writing of any change in the name, address, or ownership, or other change in operations affecting its status as a research facility, within 10 days after making such change. The Notification of Change form (APHIS Form 7033) may be used to provide the information.
(d)
Duration of a registration and conditions for cancellation of a registration.
(1) A research facility that goes out of business or ceases to function as a research facility, or that changes its method of operation so that it no longer uses, handles, or transports animals, and does not plan to use, handle, or transport animals at any time in the future, may have its registration canceled by making a written request to the Deputy Administrator.
(2) If the Deputy Administrator has sufficient evidence showing that a research facility has ceased to function as a research facility, then the Deputy Administrator may cancel the registration on its own, without a written request from the research facility.
(3) If a research facility plans to resume regulated activity, the facility is responsible for submitting a form (APHIS Form 7011A) to reregister at least 10 days prior to it using, handling, or transporting animals. There are no fees associated with such reregistration.
(e)
Non-interference with APHIS officials.
No research facility shall interfere with, threaten, abuse (including verbally abuse), or harass any APHIS official who is in the course of carrying out his or her duties.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 63 FR 62926, Nov. 10, 1998; 69 FR 42101, July 14, 2004; 85 FR 28797, May 13, 2020; 86 FR 66925, Nov. 24, 2021; 88 FR 10713, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.31
Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC).
(a) The Chief Executive Officer of the research facility shall appoint an Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC), qualified through the experience and expertise of its members to assess the research facility's animal program, facilities, and procedures. Except as specifically authorized by law or these regulations, nothing in this part shall be deemed to permit the Committee or IACUC to prescribe methods or set standards for the design, performance, or conduct of actual research or experimentation by a research facility.
(b)
IACUC membership.
(1) The members of each Committee shall be appointed by the Chief Executive Officer of the research facility;
(2) The Committee shall be composed of a Chairman and at least two additional members;
(3) Of the members of the Committee:
(i) At least one shall be a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine, with training or experience in laboratory animal science and medicine, who has direct or delegated program responsibility for activities involving animals at the research facility;
(ii) At least one shall not be affiliated in any way with the facility other than as a member of the Committee, and shall not be a member of the immediate family of a person who is affiliated with the facility. The Secretary intends that such person will provide representation for general community interests in the proper care and treatment of animals;
(4) If the Committee consists of more than three members, not more than three members shall be from the same administrative unit of the facility.
(c)
IACUC functions.
With respect to activities involving animals, the IACUC, as an agent of the research facility, shall:
(1) Review, at least once every six months, the research facility's program for humane care and use of animals, using title 9, chapter I, subchapter A—Animal Welfare, as a basis for evaluation;
(2) Inspect, at least once every six months, all of the research facility's animal facilities, including animal study areas, using title 9, chapter I, subchapter A-Animal Welfare, as a basis for evaluation;
Provided, however,
That animal areas containing free-living wild animals in their natural habitat need not be included in such inspection;
(3) Prepare reports of its evaluations conducted as required by paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, and submit the reports to the Institutional Official of the research facility;
Provided, however,
That the IACUC may determine the best means of conducting evaluations of the research facility's programs and facilities; and
Provided, further,
That no Committee member wishing to participate in any evaluation conducted under this subpart may be excluded. The IACUC may use subcommittees composed of at least two Committee members and may invite
ad hoc
consultants to assist in conducting the evaluations, however, the IACUC remains responsible for the evaluations and reports as required by the Act and regulations. The reports shall be reviewed and signed by a majority of the IACUC members and must include any minority views. The reports shall be updated at least once every six months upon completion of the required semiannual evaluations and shall be maintained by the research facility and made available to APHIS and to officials of funding Federal agencies for inspection and copying upon request. The reports must contain a description of the nature and extent of the research facility's adherence to this subchapter, must identify specifically any departures from the provisions of title 9, chapter I, subchapter A—Animal Welfare, and must state the reasons for each departure. The reports must distinguish significant deficiencies from minor deficiencies. A significant deficiency is one which, with reference to Subchapter A, and, in the judgment of the IACUC and the Institutional Official, is or may be a threat to the health or safety of the animals. If program or facility deficiencies are noted, the reports must contain a reasonable and specific plan and schedule with dates for correcting each deficiency. Any failure to adhere to the plan and schedule that results in a significant deficiency remaining uncorrected shall be reported in writing within 15 business days by the IACUC, through the Institutional Official, to APHIS and any Federal agency funding that activity;
(4) Review, and, if warranted, investigate concerns involving the care and use of animals at the research facility resulting from public complaints received and from reports of noncompliance received from laboratory or research facility personnel or employees;
(5) Make recommendations to the Institutional Official regarding any aspect of the research facility's animal program, facilities, or personnel training;
(6) Review and approve, require modifications in (to secure approval), or withhold approval of those components of proposed activities related to the care and use of animals, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section;
(7) Review and approve, require modifications in (to secure approval), or withhold approval of proposed significant changes regarding the care and use of animals in ongoing activities; and
(8) Be authorized to suspend an activity involving animals in accordance with the specifications set forth in paragraph (d)(6) of this section.
(d)
IACUC review of activities involving animals.
(1) In order to approve proposed activities or proposed significant changes in ongoing activities, the IACUC shall conduct a review of those components of the activities related to the care and use of animals and determine that the proposed activities are in accordance with this subchapter unless acceptable justification for a departure is presented in writing;
Provided, however,
That field studies as defined in part 1 of this subchapter are exempt from this requirement. Further, the IACUC shall determine that the proposed activities or significant changes in ongoing activities meet the following requirements:
(i) Procedures involving animals will avoid or minimize discomfort, distress, and pain to the animals;
(ii) The principal investigator has considered alternatives to procedures that may cause more than momentary or slight pain or distress to the animals, and has provided a written narrative description of the methods and
sources,
e. g.,
the Animal Welfare Information Center, used to determine that alternatives were not available;
(iii) The principal investigator has provided written assurance that the activities do not unnecessarily duplicate previous experiments;
(iv) Procedures that may cause more than momentary or slight pain or distress to the animals will:
(A) Be performed with appropriate sedatives, analgesics or anesthetics, unless withholding such agents is justified for scientific reasons, in writing, by the principal investigator and will continue for only the necessary period of time;
(B) Involve, in their planning, consultation with the attending veterinarian or his or her designee;
(C) Not include the use of paralytics without anesthesia;
(v) Animals that would otherwise experience severe or chronic pain or distress that cannot be relieved will be painlessly euthanized at the end of the procedure or, if appropriate, during the procedure;
(vi) The animals' living conditions will be appropriate for their species in accordance with part 3 of this subchapter, and contribute to their health and comfort. The housing, feeding, and nonmedical care of the animals will be directed by the attending veterinarian or other scientist trained and experienced in the proper care, handling, and use of the species being maintained or studied;
(vii) Medical care for animals will be available and provided as necessary by a qualified veterinarian;
(viii) Personnel conducting procedures on the species being maintained or studied will be appropriately qualified and trained in those procedures;
(ix) Activities that involve surgery include appropriate provision for pre-operative and post-operative care of the animals in accordance with established veterinary medical and nursing practices. All survival surgery will be performed using aseptic procedures, including surgical gloves, masks, sterile instruments, and aseptic techniques. Major operative procedures on animals, other than rodents and birds, will be conducted only in facilities intended for that purpose which shall be operated and maintained under aseptic conditions. Non-major operative procedures and all surgery on rodents and birds do not require a dedicated facility, but must be performed using aseptic procedures. Operative procedures conducted at field sites need not be performed in dedicated facilities, but must be performed using aseptic procedures;
(x) No animal will be used in more than one major operative procedure from which it is allowed to recover, unless:
(A) Justified for scientific reasons by the principal investigator, in writing;
(B) Required as routine veterinary procedure or to protect the health or well-being of the animal as determined by the attending veterinarian; or
(C) In other special circumstances as determined by the Administrator on an individual basis. Written requests and supporting data should be sent to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Animal Care, 4700 River Road, Unit 84, Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1234;
(xi) Methods of euthanasia used must be in accordance with the definition of the term set forth in 9 CFR part 1, § 1.1 of this subchapter, unless a deviation is justified for scientific reasons, in writing, by the investigator.
(2) Prior to IACUC review, each member of the Committee shall be provided with a list of proposed activities to be reviewed. Written descriptions of all proposed activities that involve the care and use of animals shall be available to all IACUC members, and any member of the IACUC may obtain, upon request, full Committee review of those activities. If full Committee review is not requested, at least one member of the IACUC, designated by the chairman and qualified to conduct the review, shall review those activities, and shall have the authority to approve, require modifications in (to secure approval), or request full Committee review of any of those activities. If full Committee review is requested for a proposed activity, approval of that activity may be granted only after review, at a convened meeting of a quorum of the IACUC, and with the approval vote of a majority of the
quorum present. No member may participate in the IACUC review or approval of an activity in which that member has a conflicting interest (e.g., is personally involved in the activity), except to provide information requested by the IACUC, nor may a member who has a conflicting interest contribute to the constitution of a quorum;
(3) The IACUC may invite consultants to assist in the review of complex issues arising out of its review of proposed activities. Consultants may not approve or withhold approval of an activity, and may not vote with the IACUC unless they are also members of the IACUC;
(4) The IACUC shall notify principal investigators and the research facility in writing of its decision to approve or withhold approval of those activities related to the care and use of animals, or of modifications required to secure IACUC approval. If the IACUC decides to withhold approval of an activity, it shall include in its written notification a statement of the reasons for its decision and give the principal investigator an opportunity to respond in person or in writing. The IACUC may reconsider its decision, with documentation in Committee minutes, in light of the information provided by the principal investigator;
(5) The IACUC shall conduct complete reviews of activities covered by this subchapter at appropriate intervals as determined by the IACUC, but not less than every 3 years. The complete review shall address all requirements related to the care and use of animals under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. The IACUC shall be provided a written description of all activities that involve the care and use of animals for review and approval at the end of the term.
(6) The IACUC may suspend an activity that it previously approved if it determines that the activity is not being conducted in accordance with the description of that activity provided by the principal investigator and approved by the Committee. The IACUC may suspend an activity only after review of the matter at a convened meeting of a quorum of the IACUC and with the suspension vote of a majority of the quorum present;
(7) If the IACUC suspends an activity involving animals, the Institutional Official, in consultation with the IACUC, shall review the reasons for suspension, take appropriate corrective action, and report that action with a full explanation to APHIS and any Federal agency funding that activity; and
(8) Proposed activities and proposed significant changes in ongoing activities that have been approved by the IACUC may be subject to further appropriate review and approval by officials of the research facility. However, those officials may not approve an activity involving the care and use of animals if it has not been approved by the IACUC.
(e) A proposal to conduct an activity involving animals, or to make a significant change in an ongoing activity involving animals, must contain the following:
(1) Identification of the species and the approximate number of animals to be used;
(2) A rationale for involving animals, and for the appropriateness of the species and numbers of animals to be used;
(3) A complete description of the proposed use of the animals;
(4) A description of procedures designed to assure that discomfort and pain to animals will be limited to that which is unavoidable for the conduct of scientifically valuable research, including provision for the use of analgesic, anesthetic, and tranquilizing drugs where indicated and appropriate to minimize discomfort and pain to animals; and
(5) A description of any euthanasia method to be used.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 67611, Dec. 30, 1994; 63 FR 62926, Nov. 10, 1998; 86 FR 66926, Nov. 24, 2021; 88 FR 10713, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.32
Personnel qualifications.
(a) It shall be the responsibility of the research facility to ensure that all scientists, research technicians, animal technicians, and other personnel involved in animal care, treatment,
and use are qualified to perform their duties. This responsibility shall be fulfilled in part through the provision of training and instruction to those personnel.
(b) Training and instruction shall be made available, and the qualifications of personnel reviewed, with sufficient frequency to fulfill the research facility's responsibilities under this section and § 2.31.
(c) Training and instruction of personnel must include guidance in at least the following areas:
(1) Humane methods of animal maintenance and experimentation, including:
(i) The basic needs of each species of animal;
(ii) Proper handling and care for the various species of animals used by the facility;
(iii) Proper pre-procedural and post-procedural care of animals; and
(iv) Aseptic surgical methods and procedures;
(2) The concept, availability, and use of research or testing methods that limit the use of animals or minimize animal distress;
(3) Proper use of anesthetics, analgesics, and tranquilizers for any species of animals used by the facility;
(4) Methods whereby deficiencies in animal care and treatment are reported, including deficiencies in animal care and treatment reported by any employee of the facility. No facility employee, Committee member, or laboratory personnel shall be discriminated against or be subject to any reprisal for reporting violations of any regulation or standards under the Act;
(5) Utilization of services (e.g., National Agricultural Library, National Library of Medicine) available to provide information:
(i) On appropriate methods of animal care and use;
(ii) On alternatives to the use of live animals in research;
(iii) That could prevent unintended and unnecessary duplication of research involving animals; and
(iv) Regarding the intent and requirements of the Act.
§ 2.33
Attending veterinarian and adequate veterinary care.
(a) Each research facility shall have an attending veterinarian who shall provide adequate veterinary care to its animals in compliance with this section:
(1) Each research facility shall employ an attending veterinarian under formal arrangements. In the case of a part-time attending veterinarian or consultant arrangements, the formal arrangements shall include a written program of veterinary care and regularly scheduled visits to the research facility;
(2) Each research facility shall assure that the attending veterinarian has appropriate authority to ensure the provision of adequate veterinary care and to oversee the adequacy of other aspects of animal care and use; and
(3) The attending veterinarian shall be a voting member of the IACUC;
Provided, however,
That a research facility with more than one Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) may appoint to the IACUC another DVM with delegated program responsibility for activities involving animals at the research facility.
(b) Each research facility shall establish and maintain programs of adequate veterinary care that include:
(1) The availability of appropriate facilities, personnel, equipment, and services to comply with the provisions of this subchapter;
(2) The use of appropriate methods to prevent, control, diagnose, and treat diseases and injuries, and the availability of emergency, weekend, and holiday care;
(3) Daily observation of all animals to assess their health and well-being;
Provided, however,
That daily observation of animals may be accomplished by someone other than the attending veterinarian; and
Provided, further,
That a mechanism of direct and frequent communication is required so that timely and accurate information on problems of animal health, behavior, and well-being is conveyed to the attending veterinarian;
(4) Guidance to principal investigators and other personnel involved in the care and use of animals regarding handling, immobilization, anesthesia,
analgesia, tranquilization, and euthanasia; and
(5) Adequate pre-procedural and post-procedural care in accordance with current established veterinary medical and nursing procedures.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 88 FR 10713, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.34
[Reserved]
§ 2.35
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) The research facility shall maintain the following IACUC records:
(1) Minutes of IACUC meetings, including records of attendance, activities of the Committee, and Committee deliberations;
(2) Records of proposed activities involving animals and proposed significant changes in activities involving animals, and whether IACUC approval was given or withheld; and
(3) Records of semiannual IACUC reports and recommendations (including minority views), prepared in accordance with the requirements of § 2.31(c)(3) of this subpart, and forwarded to the Institutional Official.
(b) Every research facility shall make, keep, and maintain records or forms which fully and correctly disclose the following information concerning each live dog or cat purchased or otherwise acquired, owned, held, or otherwise in their possession or under their control, transported, euthanized, sold, or otherwise disposed of by the research facility. The records shall include any offspring born of any animal while in the research facility's possession or under its control:
(1) The name and address of the person from whom a dog or cat was purchased or otherwise acquired, whether or not the person is required to be licensed or registered under the Act;
(2) The USDA license or registration number of the person if he or she is licensed or registered under the Act;
(3) The vehicle license number and State, and the driver's license number (or photographic identification card for nondrivers issued by a State) and State of the person, if he or she is not licensed or registered under the Act;
(4) The date of acquisition of each dog or cat;
(5) The official USDA tag number or tattoo assigned to each dog or cat under § 2.38(g) of this subpart;
(6) A description of each dog or cat which shall include:
(i) The species and breed or type of animal;
(ii) The sex;
(iii) The date of birth or approximate age; and
(iv) The color and any distinctive markings;
(7) Any identification number or mark assigned to each dog or cat by the research facility;
(8) If dogs or cats are acquired from any person not licensed or registered under the Act and not a pound or shelter, the research facility must obtain a certification that the animals were born and raised on the person's premises and that the person has sold fewer than 25 dogs and/or cats that year.
(c) In addition to the information required to be kept and maintained by every research facility concerning each live dog or cat under paragraph (a) of this section, every research facility transporting, selling, or otherwise disposing of any live dog or cat to another person, shall make and maintain records or forms which fully and correctly disclose the following information:
(1) The name and address of the person to whom a live dog or cat is transported, sold, or otherwise disposed of;
(2) The date of transportation, sale, euthanasia, or other disposition of the animal; and
(3) The method of transportation, including the name of the initial carrier or intermediate handler, or if a privately owned vehicle is used to transport the dog or cat, the name of the owner of the privately owned vehicle.
(d)(1) The USDA Interstate and International Certificate of Health Examination for Small Animals (APHIS Form 7001) and Record of Acquisition and Dogs and Cats on Hand (APHIS Form 7005) are forms which may be used by research facilities to keep and maintain the information required by paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) The USDA Interstate and International Certificate of Health Examination for Small Animals (APHIS Form 7001) and Record of Disposition of Dogs and Cats (APHIS Form 7006) are forms which may be used by research facilities to keep and maintain the information required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(e) One copy of the record containing the information required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall accompany each shipment of any live dog or cat sold or otherwise disposed of by a research facility;
Provided, however,
That, except as provided in § 2.133 of this part, information that indicates the source and date of acquisition of any dog or cat need not appear on the copy of the record accompanying the shipment. One copy of the record containing the information required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall be retained by the research facility.
(f) All records and reports shall be maintained for at least three years. Records that relate directly to proposed activities and proposed significant changes in ongoing activities reviewed and approved by the IACUC shall be maintained for the duration of the activity and for an additional three years after completion of the activity. All records shall be available for inspection and copying by authorized APHIS or funding Federal agency representatives at reasonable times. APHIS inspectors will maintain the confidentiality of the information and will not remove the materials from the research facilities' premises unless there has been an alleged violation, they are needed to investigate a possible violation, or for other enforcement purposes. Release of any such materials, including reports, summaries, and photographs that contain trade secrets or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential will be governed by applicable sections of the Freedom of Information Act. Whenever the Administrator notifies a research facility in writing that specified records shall be retained pending completion of an investigation or proceeding under the Act, the research facility shall hold those records until their disposition is authorized in writing by the Administrator.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 39129, July 22, 1993; 60 FR 13895, Mar. 15, 1995; 69 FR 42101, July 14, 2004; 85 FR 28797, May 13, 2020; 88 FR 10713, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.36
Annual report.
(a) The reporting facility shall be that segment of the research facility, or that department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States that uses or intends to use live animals in research, tests, experiments, or for teaching. Each reporting facility shall submit an annual report to the Deputy Administrator on or before December 1 of each calendar year. The report shall cover the previous Federal fiscal year. The Annual Report of Research Facility (APHIS Form 7023), Continuation Sheet for Annual Report of Research Facility (APHIS Form 7023A), and Annual Report of Research Facility Column E Explanation (APHIS Form 7023B) are forms which may be used to submit the information required by paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The annual report shall:
(1) Assure that professionally acceptable standards governing the care, treatment, and use of animals, including appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic, and tranquilizing drugs, prior to, during, and following actual research, teaching, testing, surgery, or experimentation were followed by the research facility;
(2) Assure that each principal investigator has considered alternatives to painful procedures;
(3) Assure that the facility is adhering to the standards and regulations under the Act, and that it has required that exceptions to the standards and regulations be specified and explained by the principal investigator and approved by the IACUC. A summary of all such exceptions must be attached to the facility's annual report. In addition to identifying the IACUC-approved exceptions, this summary must include a brief explanation of the exceptions, as well as the species and number of animals affected;
(4) State the location of all facilities where animals were housed or used in actual research, testing, teaching, or experimentation, or held for these purposes;
(5) State the common names and the numbers of animals upon which teaching, research, experiments, or tests were conducted involving no pain, distress, or use of pain-relieving drugs. Routine procedures (e.g., injections, tattooing, blood sampling) should be reported with this group;
(6) State the common names and the numbers of animals upon which experiments, teaching, research, surgery, or tests were conducted involving accompanying pain or distress to the animals and for which appropriate anesthetic, analgesic, or tranquilizing drugs were used;
(7) State the common names and the numbers of animals upon which teaching, experiments, research, surgery, or tests were conducted involving accompanying pain or distress to the animals and for which the use of appropriate anesthetic, analgesic, or tranquilizing drugs would have adversely affected the procedures, results, or interpretation of the teaching, research, experiments, surgery, or tests. An explanation of the procedures producing pain or distress in these animals and the reasons such drugs were not used shall be attached to the annual report;
(8) State the common names and the numbers of animals being bred, conditioned, or held for use in teaching, testing, experiments, research, or surgery but not yet used for such purposes.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 63 FR 62926, Nov. 10, 1998; 85 FR 28797, May 13, 2020; 86 FR 66926, Nov. 24, 2021; 88 FR 10713, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.37
Federal research facilities.
Each Federal research facility shall establish an Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee which shall have the same composition, duties, and responsibilities required of nonfederal research facilities by § 2.31 with the following exceptions:
(a) The Committee shall report deficiencies to the head of the Federal agency conducting the research rather than to APHIS; and
(b) The head of the Federal agency conducting the research shall be responsible for all corrective action to be taken at the facility and for the granting of all exceptions to inspection protocol.
§ 2.38
Miscellaneous.
(a)
Information as to business: furnishing of same by research facilities.
Each research facility shall furnish to any APHIS official any information concerning the business of the research facility which the APHIS official may request in connection with the enforcement of the provisions of the Act, the regulations, and the standards in this subchapter. The information shall be furnished within a reasonable time and as may be specified in the request for information.
(b)
Access and inspection of records and property.
(1) Each research facility shall, during business hours, allow APHIS officials:
(i) To enter its place of business;
(ii) To examine records required to be kept by the Act and the regulations in this part;
(iii) To make copies of the records;
(iv) To inspect the facilities, property, and animals, as the APHIS officials consider necessary to enforce the provisions of the Act, the regulations, and the standards in this subchapter; and
(v) To document, by the taking of photographs and other means, conditions and areas of noncompliance.
(2) The use of a room, table or other facilities necessary for the proper examination of the records and for inspection of the property or animals shall be extended to APHIS officials by the research facility.
(c)
Publication of lists of research facilities subject to the provisions of this part.
APHIS will publish on its website lists of research facilities registered in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. The lists may also be obtained upon request from the Deputy Administrator.
(d)
Inspection for missing animals.
Each research facility shall allow, upon
request and during business hours, police or officers of other law enforcement agencies with general law enforcement authority (not those agencies whose duties are limited to enforcement of local animal regulations) to enter its place of business to inspect animals and records for the purpose of seeking animals that are missing, under the following conditions:
(1) The police or other law officer shall furnish to the research facility a written description of the missing animal and the name and address of its owner before making a search;
(2) The police or other law officer shall abide by all security measures required by the research facility to prevent the spread of disease, including the use of sterile clothing, footwear, and masks where required, or to prevent the escape of an animal.
(e)
Confiscation and destruction of animals.
(1) If an animal being held by a research facility is not being used to carry out research, testing, or experimentation, and is found by an APHIS official to be suffering as a result of the failure of the research facility to comply with any provision of the regulations or the standards set forth in this subchapter, the APHIS official shall make a reasonable effort to notify the research facility of the condition of the animal(s) and request that the condition be corrected and that adequate care be given to alleviate the animal's suffering or distress, or that the animal(s) be destroyed by euthanasia. In the event that the research facility refuses to comply with this request, the APHIS official may confiscate the animal(s) for care, treatment, or disposal as indicated in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, if, in the opinion of the Administrator, the circumstances indicate the animal's health is in danger.
(2) In the event that the APHIS official is unable to locate or notify the research facility as required in this section, the APHIS official shall contact a local police or other law officer to accompany him or her to the premises and shall provide for adequate care when necessary to alleviate the animal's suffering. If, in the opinion of the Administrator, the condition of the animal(s) cannot be corrected by this temporary care, the APHIS official shall confiscate the animal(s).
(3) Confiscated animals may be placed, by sale or donation, with other registrants or licensees that comply with the standards and regulations and can provide proper care, or they may be euthanized. The research facility from which the animals were confiscated shall bear all costs incurred in performing the placement or euthanasia activities authorized by this section.
(f)
Handling.
(1) Handling of all animals shall be done as expeditiously and carefully as possible in a manner that does not cause trauma, overheating, excessive cooling, behavioral stress, physical harm, or unnecessary discomfort.
(2)(i) Physical abuse shall not be used to train, work, or otherwise handle animals.
(ii) Deprivation of food or water shall not be used to train, work, or otherwise handle animals;
Provided, however:
That the short-term withholding of food or water from animals, when specified in an IACUC-approved activity that includes a description of monitoring procedures, is allowed by these regulations.
(g)
Identification of dogs and cats.
(1) All live dogs or cats, including those from any exempt source, delivered for transportation, transported, purchased or otherwise acquired, sold, or disposed of by a research facility, shall be identified at the time of such delivery for transportation, purchase, sale, disposal, or acquisition in one of the following ways:
(i) By the official tag or tattoo which was affixed to the animal at the time it was acquired by the research facility, as required by this section; or
(ii) By a tag, tattoo, or collar, applied to the live dog or cat by the research facility and which individually identifies the dog or cat by number.
(2) All official tag or tattoo numbers shall be correctly listed in the records of purchase, acquisition, disposal, or sale which shall be maintained in accordance with § 2.35.
(3) Unweaned puppies or kittens need not be individually identified while they are maintained as a litter with
their dam in the same primary enclosure, provided the dam has been individually identified.
(4) The official tag shall be made of a durable alloy such as brass, bronze, or steel, or of a durable plastic. Aluminum of a sufficient thickness to assure the tag is durable and legible may also be used. The tag may be circular in shape and not less than 1
1/4
inches in diameter, or oblong and flat in shape and not less than 2 inches by
3/4
inch, and riveted to an acceptable collar.
(5) Each tag shall have the following information embossed or stamped on so that it is easily readable:
(i) The letters “USDA”;
(ii) Numbers identifying the State and dealer, exhibitor, or research facility (e.g., 39-AB); and
(iii) Numbers identifying the animal (e.g., 82488).
(6) Official tags shall be serially numbered and shall be applied to dogs or cats in the manner set forth in this section in as close to consecutive numerical order as possible. No tag number shall be used to identify more than one animal or shall be reused within a 5-year period.
(7) Research facilities may obtain, at their own expense, official tags from commercial tag manufacturers.
1
At the time the research facility is registered, the Department will assign identification letters and numbers to be used on the official tags.
1
A list of the commercial manufacturers who produce these tags and are known to the Department may be obtained from the Deputy Administrator. Any manufacturer who desires to be included in the list should notify the Administrator.
(8) Each research facility shall be held accountable for all official tags acquired. In the event an official tag is lost from a dog or cat while in the possession of a research facility, the facility shall make a diligent effort to locate and reapply the tag to the proper animal. If the lost tag is not located, the research facility shall affix another official tag to the animal in the manner prescribed in this section and record the tag number on the official records.
(9) When a dog or cat wearing or identified by an official tag arrives at a research facility, the facility may continue to use that tag to identify the dog or cat or the tag may be replaced as indicated in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. All tags removed by a research facility shall be retained and disposed of as indicated in this section.
(10) Where a dog or cat to which is affixed or which is identified by an official tag is euthanized, or dies from other causes, the research facility shall remove and retain the tag for the required period, as set forth in paragraph (g)(11) of this section.
(11) All official tags removed and retained by a research facility shall be held until called for by an APHIS official or for a period of 1 year.
(12) When official tags are removed from animals for disposal, the tags must be disposed of so as to preclude their reuse for animal identification. No animal identification number shall be used within any 5-year period following its previous use.
(h)
Health certification.
(1) No research facility, including a Federal research facility, shall deliver to any intermediate handler or carrier for transportation, in commerce, or shall transport in commerce any dog, cat, or nonhuman primate unless the dog, cat, or nonhuman primate is accompanied by a health certificate executed and issued by a licensed veterinarian. The health certificate shall state that:
(i) The licensed veterinarian inspected the dog, cat, or nonhuman primate on a specified date which shall not be more than 10 days prior to the delivery of the dog, cat, or nonhuman primate for transportation; and
(ii) When so inspected, the dog, cat, or nonhuman primate appeared to the licensed veterinarian to be free of any infectious disease or physical abnormality which would endanger the animal(s) or other animals or endanger public health.
(2) The Secretary may provide exceptions to the health certification requirement on an individual basis for animals shipped to a research facility for purposes of research, testing, or experimentation when the research facility requires animals not eligible for certification. Requests should be addressed to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Animal
Care, 4700 River Road, Unit 84, Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1234.
(3) The U.S. Interstate and International Certificate of Health Examination for Small Animals (APHIS Form 7001) may be used for health certification by a licensed veterinarian as required by this section.
(i)
Holding of animals.
If any research facility obtains prior approval of the Deputy Administrator, it may arrange to have another person hold animals:
Provided,
That:
(1) The other person agrees, in writing, to comply with the regulations in this part and the standards in part 3 of this subchapter, and to allow inspection of the premises by an APHIS official during business hours;
(2) The animals remain under the total control and responsibility of the research facility; and
(3) The Institutional Official agrees, in writing, that the other person or premises is a recognized animal site under its research facility registration. APHIS Form 7009 shall be used for approval.
(4) The other person or premises must either be directly included in the research facility's contingency plan required under paragraph (l) of this section or must develop its own contingency plan in accordance with paragraph (l) of this section.
(j)
Holding period.
Research facilities that obtain dogs and cats from sources other than dealers, exhibitors, and exempt persons shall hold the animals for 5 full days, not including the day of acquisition, after acquiring the animal, excluding time in transit, before they may be used by the facility. Research facilities shall comply with the identification of animals requirements set forth in § 2.38(g) during this period.
(k)
Compliance with standards and prohibitions.
(1) Each research facility shall comply in all respects with the regulations set forth in subpart C of this part and the standards set forth in part 3 of this subchapter for the humane handling, care, treatment, housing, and transportation of animals;
Provided, however,
That exceptions to the standards in part 3 and the provisions of subpart C of this part may be made only when such exceptions are specified and justified in the proposal to conduct the activity and are approved by the IACUC.
(2) No person shall obtain live dogs or cats by use of false pretenses, misrepresentation, or deception.
(3) No person shall acquire, buy, sell, exhibit, use for research, transport, or offer for transportation, any stolen animal.
(4) Each research facility shall comply with the regulations set forth in § 2.133 of subpart I of this part.
(l)
Contingency planning.
(1) Research facilities must develop, document, and follow an appropriate plan to provide for the humane handling, treatment, transportation, housing, and care of their animals in the event of an emergency or disaster (one which could reasonably be anticipated and expected to be detrimental to the good health and well-being of the animals in their possession). Such contingency plans must:
(i) Identify situations the facility might experience that would trigger the need for the measures identified in a contingency plan to be put into action including, but not limited to, emergencies such as electrical outages, faulty HVAC systems, fires, and animal escapes, as well as natural disasters the facility is most likely to experience.
(ii) Outline specific tasks required to be carried out in response to the identified emergencies or disasters including, but not limited to, detailed animal evacuation instructions or shelter-in-place instructions and provisions for providing backup sources of food and water as well as sanitation, ventilation, bedding, veterinary care, etc.;
(iii) Identify a chain of command and who (by name or by position title) will be responsible for fulfilling these tasks; and
(iv) Address how response and recovery will be handled in terms of materials, resources, and training needed.
(2) For current registrants, the contingency plan must be in place by July 5, 2022. For research facilities registered after this date, the contingency plan must be in place prior to conducting regulated activities. The plan must be reviewed by the research facility on at least an annual basis to ensure that it adequately addresses the criteria listed in paragraph (l)(1) of this
section. Each registrant must maintain documentation of their annual reviews, including documenting any amendments or changes made to their plan since the previous year's review, such as changes made as a result of recently predicted, but historically unforeseen, circumstances (e.g., weather extremes). Contingency plans, as well as all annual review documentation, must be made available to APHIS and any funding Federal agency representatives upon request. The APHIS Contingency Plan form may be used to keep and maintain the information required by paragraph (l)(1) and (2) of this section.
(3) The facility must provide training for its personnel regarding their roles and responsibilities as outlined in the plan. For current registrants, training of facility personnel must be completed within 60 days of the research facility putting their plan in place; for research facilities registered after July 5, 2022, training of facility personnel must be completed within 60 days of the facility putting its contingency plan in place. This deadline applies to employees hired before and up to 30 days after the facility puts its contingency plan in place. For employees hired more than 30 days after the facility puts its contingency plan in place, training must be conducted within 30 days of their start date. Any substantive changes to the plan as a result of the annual review must be communicated to employees through training which must be conducted within 30 days of making the changes.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036, 0579-0479, and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 39129, July 22, 1993; 59 FR 67612, Dec. 30, 1994; 60 FR 13895, Mar. 15, 1995; 63 FR 62926, Nov. 10, 1998; 69 FR 42101, July 14, 2004; 77 FR 76823, Dec. 31, 2012; 85 FR 28797, May 13, 2020; 86 FR 68537, Dec. 3, 2021; 88 FR 10713, Feb. 21, 2023]

# Subpart D—Attending Veterinarian and Adequate Veterinary Care
§ 2.40
Attending veterinarian and adequate veterinary care (dealers and exhibitors).
(a) Each dealer or exhibitor shall have an attending veterinarian who shall provide adequate veterinary care to its animals in compliance with this section.
(1) Each dealer and exhibitor shall employ an attending veterinarian under formal arrangements. In the case of a part-time attending veterinarian or consultant arrangements, the formal arrangements shall include a written program of veterinary care and regularly scheduled visits to the premises of the dealer or exhibitor; and
(2) Each dealer and exhibitor shall assure that the attending veterinarian has appropriate authority to ensure the provision of adequate veterinary care and to oversee the adequacy of other aspects of animal care and use.
(b) Each dealer or exhibitor shall establish and maintain programs of adequate veterinary care that include:
(1) The availability of appropriate facilities, personnel, equipment, and services to comply with the provisions of this subchapter;
(2) The use of appropriate methods to prevent, control, diagnose, and treat diseases and injuries, and the availability of emergency, weekend, and holiday care;
(3) Daily observation of all animals to assess their health and well-being;
Provided, however,
That daily observation of animals may be accomplished by someone other than the attending veterinarian; and
Provided, further,
That a mechanism of direct and frequent communication is required so that timely and accurate information on problems of animal health, behavior, and well-being is conveyed to the attending veterinarian;
(4) Adequate guidance to personnel involved in the care and use of animals regarding handling, immobilization, anesthesia, analgesia, tranquilization, and euthanasia; and
(5) Adequate pre-procedural and post-procedural care in accordance with established veterinary medical and nursing procedures.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 88 FR 10714, Feb. 21, 2023]

# Subpart E—Identification of Animals
§ 2.50
Time and method of identification.
(a) A class “A” dealer (breeder) shall identify all live dogs and cats on the premises as follows:
(1) All live dogs and cats held on the premises, purchased, or otherwise acquired, sold or otherwise disposed of, or removed from the premises for delivery to a research facility or exhibitor or to another dealer, or for sale, through an auction sale or to any person for use as a pet, shall be identified by an official tag of the type described in § 2.51 affixed to the animal's neck by means of a collar made of material generally considered acceptable to pet owners as a means of identifying their pet dogs or cats
2
, or shall be identified by a distinctive and legible tattoo marking acceptable to and approved by the Administrator.
2
In general, well fitted collars made of leather or plastic will be acceptable under this provision. The use of certain types of chains presently used by some dealers may also be deemed acceptable. APHIS will determine the acceptability of a material proposed for usage as collars from the standpoint of humane considerations on an individual basis in consultation with the dealer or exhibitor involved. The use of materials such as wire, elastic, or sharp metal that might cause discomfort or injury to the dogs or cats is not acceptable.
(2) Live puppies or kittens, less than 16 weeks of age, shall be identified by:
(i) An official tag as described in § 2.51;
(ii) A distinctive and legible tattoo marking approved by the Administrator; or
(iii) A plastic-type collar acceptable to the Administrator which has legibly placed thereon the information required for an official tag pursuant to § 2.51.
(b) A class “B” dealer shall identify all live dogs and cats under his or her control or on his or her premises as follows:
(1) When live dogs or cats are held, purchased, or otherwise acquired, they shall be immediately identified:
(i) By affixing to the animal's neck an official tag as set forth in § 2.51 by means of a collar made of material generally acceptable to pet owners as a means of identifying their pet dogs or cats
3
; or
3
See footnote 2 in § 2.50(a)(1).
(ii) By a distinctive and legible tattoo marking approved by the Administrator.
(2) If any live dog or cat is already identified by an official tag or tattoo which has been applied by another dealer or exhibitor, the dealer or exhibitor who purchases or otherwise acquires the animal may continue identifying the dog or cat by the previous identification number, or may replace the previous tag with his own official tag or approved tattoo. In either case, the class B dealer or class C exhibitor shall correctly list all old and new official tag numbers or tattoos in his or her records of purchase which shall be maintained in accordance with §§ 2.75 and 2.77. Any new official tag or tattoo number shall be used on all records of any subsequent sales by the dealer or exhibitor, of any dog or cat.
(3) Live puppies or kittens less than 16 weeks of age, shall be identified by:
(i) An official tag as described in § 2.51;
(ii) A distinctive and legible tattoo marking approved by the Administrator; or
(iii) A plastic-type collar acceptable to the Administrator which has legibly placed thereon the information required for an official tag pursuant to § 2.51.
(4) When any dealer has made a reasonable effort to affix an official tag to a cat, as set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and has been unable to do so, or when the cat exhibits serious distress from the attachment of a collar and tag, the dealer shall attach the collar and tag to the door of the primary enclosure containing the cat and take measures adequate to maintain the identity of the cat in relation to the tag. Each primary enclosure shall contain no more than one weaned cat without an affixed collar and official tag, unless the cats are identified by a distinctive and legible tattoo or plastic-type collar approved by the Administrator.
(c) A class “C” exhibitor shall identify all live dogs and cats under his or her control or on his or her premises, whether held, purchased, or otherwise acquired:
(1) As set forth in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(3) of this section, or
(2) By identifying each dog or cat with:
(i) An official USDA sequentially numbered tag that is kept on the door of the animal's cage or run;
(ii) A record book containing each animal's tag number, a written description of each animal, the data required by § 2.75(a), and a clear photograph of each animal; and
(iii) A duplicate tag that accompanies each dog or cat whenever it leaves the compound or premises.
(d) Unweaned puppies or kittens need not be individually identified as required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section while they are maintained as a litter with their dam in the same primary enclosure, provided the dam has been individually identified.
(e)(1) All animals, except dogs and cats, delivered for transportation, transported, purchased, sold, or otherwise acquired or disposed of by any dealer or exhibitor shall be identified by the dealer or exhibitor at the time of delivery for transportation, purchase, sale, acquisition or disposal, as provided for in this paragraph and in records maintained as required in §§ 2.75 and 2.77.
(2) When one or more birds are confined in a primary enclosure, the bird shall be identified by:
(i) A label attached to the primary enclosure which shall bear a description of the birds in the primary enclosure, including:
(A) The number of birds;
(B) The species of the birds;
(C) Any distinctive physical features of the birds; and
(D) Any identifying marks on the birds; or
(ii) A leg or wing band applied to each bird in the primary enclosure by the dealer or exhibitor that individually identifies each bird by description or number; or
(iii) A transponder (microchip) placed in a standard anatomical location for the species in accordance with professionally accepted standards, provided that the receiving facility has a compatible transponder (microchip) reader that is capable of reading the transponder (microchip) and that the reader is readily available for use by an APHIS official and/or facility employee accompanying the APHIS official.
(3) When one or more animals, other than dogs, cats, or birds, are confined in a primary enclosure, the animal(s) shall be identified by:
(i) A label attached to the primary enclosure which shall bear a description of the animals in the primary enclosure, including:
(A) The number of animals;
(B) The species of the animals;
(C) Any distinctive physical features of the animals; and
(D) Any identifying marks, tattoos, or tags attached to the animals;
(ii) Marking the primary enclosure with a painted or stenciled number which shall be recorded in the records of the dealer or exhibitor together with:
(A) A description of the animal(s);
(B) The species of the animal(s); and
(C) Any distinctive physical features of the animal(s); or
(iii) A tag or tattoo applied to each animal in the primary enclosure by the dealer or exhibitor which individually identifies each animal by description or number.
(4) When any animal, other than a dog or cat, is not confined in a primary enclosure, it shall be identified on a record, as required by § 2.75, which shall accompany the animal at the time it is delivered for transportation, transported, purchased, or sold, and shall be kept and maintained by the dealer or exhibitor as part of his or her records.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 88 FR 10714, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.51
Form of official tag.
(a) The official tag shall be made of a durable alloy such as brass, bronze, or steel, or of a durable plastic. Aluminum of a sufficient thickness to assure the tag is durable and legible may also be used. The tag shall be one of the following shapes:
(1) Circular in shape and not less than 1
1/4
inches in diameter, or
(2) Oblong and flat in shape, not less than 2 inches by
3/4
inch and riveted to an acceptable collar.
(b) Each tag shall have the following information embossed or stamped on so that it is easily readable:
(1) The letters “USDA”;
(2) Numbers identifying the State and dealer, exhibitor, or research facility (e.g., 39-AB); and
(3) Numbers identifying the animal (e.g., 82488).
(c) Official tags shall be serially numbered. No individual dealer or exhibitor shall use any identification tag number more than once within a 5-year period.
§ 2.52
How to obtain tags.
Dealers or exhibitors may obtain, at their own expense, official tags from commercial tag manufacturers.
4
At the time the dealer or exhibitor is issued a license or is registered, the Department will assign identification letters and numbers and inform them of the identification letters and numbers to be used on the official tags.
4
A list of the commercial manufacturers who produce these tags and are known to the Department may be obtained from the Deputy Administrator. Any manufacturer who desires to be included in the list should notify the Administrator.
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 63 FR 62927, Nov. 10, 1998; 85 FR 28798, May 13, 2020]
§ 2.53
Use of tags.
Official tags obtained by a dealer, exhibitor, or research facility, shall be applied to dogs or cats in the manner set forth in § 2.50 and in as close to consecutive numerical order as possible. No tag number shall be used to identify more than one animal. No number shall be repeated within a 5-year period.
§ 2.54
Lost tags.
Each dealer or exhibitor shall be held accountable for all official tags acquired. In the event an official tag is lost from a dog or cat while in the possession of a dealer or exhibitor, the dealer or exhibitor shall make a diligent effort to locate and reapply the tag to the proper animal. If the lost tag is not located, the dealer or exhibitor shall affix another official tag to the animal in the manner prescribed in § 2.50, and record the tag number on the official records.
§ 2.55
Removal and disposal of tags.
(a) Where a dog or cat to which is affixed or which is identified by an official tag is euthanized, or dies from other causes, the dealer or exhibitor shall remove and retain the tag for the required period, as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) All official tags removed and retained by a dealer or exhibitor shall be held until called for by an APHIS official or for a period of 1 year.
(c) When official tags are removed from animals for disposal, the tags must be disposed of so as to preclude their reuse for animal identification. No animal identification number shall be used within any 5-year period following its previous use.

# Subpart F—Stolen Animals
§ 2.60
Prohibition on the purchase, sale, use, or transportation of stolen animals.
No person shall buy, sell, exhibit, use for research, transport, or offer for transportation, any stolen animal.

# Subpart G—Records
§ 2.75
Records: Dealers and exhibitors.
(a)(1) Each dealer, other than operators of auction sales and brokers to whom animals are consigned, and each exhibitor shall make, keep, and maintain records or forms which fully and correctly disclose the following information concerning each dog or cat purchased or otherwise acquired, owned, held, or otherwise in his or her possession or under his or her control, or which is transported, euthanized, sold, or otherwise disposed of by that dealer or exhibitor. The records shall include any offspring born of any animal while in his or her possession or under his or her control.
(i) The name and address of the person from whom a dog or cat was purchased or otherwise acquired whether
or not the person is required to be licensed or registered under the Act;
(ii) The USDA license or registration number of the person if he or she is licensed or registered under the Act;
(iii) The vehicle license number and State, and the driver's license number (or photographic identification card for nondrivers issued by a State) and State of the person, if he or she is not licensed or registered under the Act;
(iv) The name and address of the person to whom a dog or cat was sold or given and that person's license or registration number if he or she is licensed or registered under the Act;
(v) The date a dog or cat was acquired or disposed of, including by euthanasia;
(vi) The official USDA tag number or tattoo assigned to a dog or cat under §§ 2.50 and 2.54;
(vii) A description of each dog or cat which shall include:
(A) The species and breed or type;
(B) The sex;
(C) The date of birth or approximate age; and
(D) The color and any distinctive markings;
(viii) The method of transportation including the name of the initial carrier or intermediate handler or, if a privately owned vehicle is used to transport a dog or cat, the name of the owner of the privately owned vehicle;
(ix) The date and method of disposition of a dog or cat, e.g., sale, death, euthanasia, or donation.
(2) Each dealer and exhibitor shall use Record of Acquisition and Dogs and Cats on Hand (APHIS Form 7005) and Record of Disposition of Dogs and Cats (APHIS Form 7006) to make, keep, and maintain the information required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section:
Provided,
that if a dealer or exhibitor who uses a computerized recordkeeping system believes that APHIS Form 7005 and APHIS Form 7006 are unsuitable for him or her to make, keep, and maintain the information required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the dealer or exhibitor may request a variance from the requirement to use APHIS Form 7005 and APHIS Form 7006.
(i) The request for a variance must consist of a written statement describing why APHIS Form 7005 and APHIS Form 7006 are unsuitable for the dealer or exhibitor to make, keep, and maintain the information required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and a description of the computerized recordkeeping system the person would use in lieu of APHIS Form 7005 and APHIS Form 7006 to make, keep, and maintain the information required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section. APHIS will advise the person as to the disposition of his or her request for a variance from the requirement to use APHIS Form 7005 and APHIS Form 7006.
(ii) A dealer or exhibitor whose request for a variance has been denied may request a hearing in accordance with the applicable rules of practice for the purpose of showing why the request for a variance should not be denied. The denial of the variance shall remain in effect until the final legal decision has been rendered.
(3) The USDA Interstate and International Certificate of Health Examination for Small Animals (APHIS Form 7001) may be used by dealers and exhibitors to make, keep, and maintain the information required by § 2.78.
(4) One copy of the record containing the information required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall accompany each shipment of any dog or cat purchased or otherwise acquired by a dealer or exhibitor. One copy of the record containing the information required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall accompany each shipment of any dog or cat sold or otherwise disposed of by a dealer or exhibitor:
Provided, however,
that, except as provided in § 2.133(b) of this part for dealers, information that indicates the source and date of acquisition of a dog or cat need not appear on the copy of the record accompanying the shipment. One copy of the record containing the information required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be retained by the dealer or exhibitor.
(b)(1) Every dealer other than operators of auction sales and brokers to whom animals are consigned, and exhibitor shall make, keep, and maintain records or forms which fully and correctly disclose the following information concerning animals other than dogs and cats, purchased or otherwise
acquired, owned, held, leased, or otherwise in his or her possession or under his or her control, or which is transported, sold, euthanized, or otherwise disposed of by that dealer or exhibitor. The records shall include any offspring born or hatched of any animal while in his or her possession or under his or her control, to the extent that any identification or counting of offspring can be carried out without unduly disturbing nesting or rearing activities.
(i) The name and address of the person from whom the animals were purchased or otherwise acquired;
(ii) The USDA license or registration number of the person if he or she is licensed or registered under the Act;
(iii) The vehicle license number and State, and the driver's license number (or photographic identification card for nondrivers issued by a State) and State of the person, if he or she is not licensed or registered under the Act;
(iv) The name and address of the person to whom an animal was sold or given;
(v) The date of purchase, acquisition, sale, or disposal of the animal(s);
(vi) The species of the animal(s); and
(vii) The number of animals in the shipment.
(2) Record of Animals on Hand (other than dogs and cats) (APHIS Form 7019) and Record of Acquisition, Disposition, or Transport of Animals (other than dogs and cats) (APHIS Form 7020) are forms which may be used by dealers and exhibitors to keep and maintain the information required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section concerning animals other than dogs and cats except as provided in § 2.78.
(3) One copy of the record containing the information required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall accompany each shipment of any animal(s) other than a dog or cat purchased or otherwise acquired by a dealer or exhibitor. One copy of the record containing the information required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall accompany each shipment of any animal other than a dog or cat sold or otherwise disposed of by a dealer or exhibitor;
Provided, however,
That information which indicates the source and date of acquisition of any animal other than a dog or cat need not appear on the copy of the record accompanying the shipment. The dealer or exhibitor shall retain one copy of the record containing the information required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 39129, July 22, 1993; 58 FR 45041, Aug. 26, 1993; 60 FR 13895, Mar. 15, 1995; 69 FR 42102, July 14, 2004; 85 FR 28798, May 13, 2020; 88 FR 10714, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.76
Records: Operators of auction sales and brokers.
(a) Every operator of an auction sale or broker shall make, keep, and maintain records or forms which fully and correctly disclose the following information concerning each animal consigned for auction or sold, whether or not a fee or commission is charged:
(1) The name and address of the person who owned or consigned the animal(s) for sale;
(2) The name and address of the buyer or consignee who received the animal;
(3) The USDA license or registration number of the person(s) selling, consigning, buying, or receiving the animals if he or she is licensed or registered under the Act;
(4) The vehicle license number and State, and the driver's license number (or photographic identification card for nondrivers issued by a State) and State of the person, if he or she is not licensed or registered under the Act;
(5) The date of the consignment;
(6) The official USDA tag number or tattoo assigned to the animal under §§ 2.50 and 2.54;
(7) A description of the animal which shall include:
(i) The species and the breed or type of animal;
(ii) The sex of the animal; or if the animal is a bird, only if the sex is readily determinable;
(iii) The date of birth or hatch date; or, if unknown, the approximate age or developmental stage; and
(iv) The color and any distinctive markings; and
(8) The auction sales number or records number assigned to the animal.
(b) One copy of the record containing the information required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be given to the consignor of each animal, one copy of the record shall be given to the purchaser of each animal:
Provided, however,
That information which indicates the source and date of consignment of any animal need not appear on the copy of the record given the purchaser of any animal. One copy of the record containing the information required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be retained by the operator of such auction sale, or broker, for each animal sold by the auction sale or broker.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 69 FR 42102, July 14, 2004; 88 FR 10714, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.77
Records: Carriers and intermediate handlers.
(a) In connection with all live animals accepted for shipment on a C.O.D. basis or other arrangement or practice under which the cost of an animal or the transportation of an animal is to be paid and collected upon delivery of the animal to the consignee, the accepting carrier or intermediate handler, if any, shall keep and maintain a copy of the consignor's written guarantee for the payment of transportation charged for any animal not claimed as provided in § 2.80, including, where necessary, both the return transportation charges and an amount sufficient to reimburse the carrier for out-of-pocket expenses incurred for the care, feeding, and storage of the animal. The carrier or intermediate handler at destination shall also keep and maintain a copy of the shipping document containing the time, date, and method of each attempted notification and the final notification to the consignee and the name of the person notifying the consignee, as provided in § 2.80.
(b) In connection with all live dogs, cats, or nonhuman primates delivered for transportation, in commerce, to any carrier or intermediate handler, by any dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, broker, or department, agency or instrumentality of the United States or of any state or local government, the accepting carrier or intermediate handler shall keep and maintain a copy of the health certification completed as required by § 2.78, tendered with each live dog, cat, or nonhuman primate.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 85 FR 28798, May 13, 2020; 88 FR 10714, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.78
Health certification and identification.
(a) No dealer, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, broker, or department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local government shall deliver to any intermediate handler or carrier for transportation, in commerce, or shall transport in commerce any dog, cat, or nonhuman primate unless the dog, cat, or nonhuman primate is accompanied by a health certificate executed and issued by a licensed veterinarian. The health certificate shall state that:
(1) The licensed veterinarian inspected the dog, cat, or nonhuman primate on a specified date which shall not be more than 10 days prior to the delivery of the dog, cat, or nonhuman primate for transportation; and
(2) when so inspected, the dog, cat, or nonhuman primate appeared to the licensed veterinarian to be free of any infectious disease or physical abnormality which would endanger the animal(s) or other animals or endanger public health.
(b) The Secretary may provide exceptions to the health certification requirement on an individual basis for animals shipped to a research facility for purposes of research, testing, or experimentation when the research facility requires animals not eligible for certification. Requests should be addressed to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Animal Care, 4700 River Road, Unit 84, Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1234.
(c) No intermediate handler or carrier to whom any live dog, cat, or nonhuman primate is delivered for transportation by any dealer, research facility, exhibitor, broker, operator of
an auction sale, or department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or any State or local government shall receive a live dog, cat, or nonhuman primate for transportation, in commerce, unless and until it is accompanied by a health certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, or an exemption issued by the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The U.S. Interstate and International Certificate of Health Examination for Small Animals (APHIS Form 7001) may be used for health certification by a licensed veterinarian as required by this section.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 67612, Dec. 30, 1994; 60 FR 13896, Mar. 15, 1995; 63 FR 62927, Nov. 10, 1998; 69 FR 42102, July 14, 2004; 88 FR 10714, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.79
C.O.D. shipments.
(a) No carrier or intermediate handler shall accept any animal for transportation, in commerce, upon any C.O.D. or other basis where any money is to be paid and collected upon delivery of the animal to the consignee, unless the consignor guarantees in writing the payment of all transportation, including any return transportation, if the shipment is unclaimed or the consignee cannot be notified in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, including reimbursing the carrier or intermediate handler for all out-of-pocket expenses incurred for the care, feeding, and storage or housing of the animal.
(b) Any carrier or intermediate handler receiving an animal at a destination on a C.O.D. or other basis any money is to be paid and collected upon delivery of the animal to the consignee shall attempt to notify the consignee at least once every 6 hours for a period of 24 hours after arrival of the animal at the animal holding area of the terminal cargo facility. The carrier or intermediate handler shall record the time, date, and method of each attempted notification and the final notification to the consignee, and the name of the person notifying the consignee, on the shipping document and on the copy of the shipping document accompanying the C.O.D. shipment. If the consignee cannot be notified of the C.O.D. shipment within 24 hours after its arrival, the carrier or intermediate handler shall return the animal to the consignor, or to whomever the consignor has designated, on the next practical available transportation, in accordance with the written agreement required in paragraph (a) of this section and shall notify the consignor. Any carrier or intermediate handler which has notified a consignee of the arrival of a C.O.D. or other shipment of an animal, where any money is to be paid and collected upon delivery of the animal to the consignee, which is not claimed by the consignee within 48 hours from the time of notification, shall return the animal to the consignor, or to whomever the consignor has designated, on the next practical available transportation, in accordance with the written agreement required in paragraph (a) of this section and shall notify the consignor.
(c) It is the responsibility of any carrier or intermediate handler to hold, feed, and care for any animal accepted for transportation, in commerce, under a C.O.D. or other arrangement where any money is to be paid and collected upon delivery of the animal until the consignee accepts shipment at destination or until returned to the consignor or his or her designee should the consignee fail to accept delivery of the animal or if the consignee could not be notified as prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting any carrier or intermediate handler from requiring any guarantee in addition to that required in paragraph (a) of this section for the payment of the cost of any transportation or out-of-pocket or other incidental expenses incurred in the transportation of any animal.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 88 FR 10714, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.80
Records, disposition.
(a) No dealer, exhibitor, broker, operator of an auction sale, carrier, or intermediate handler shall, for a period of 1 year, destroy or dispose of, without the consent in writing of the Administrator, any books, records, documents, or other papers required to be kept and maintained under this part.
(b) Unless otherwise specified, the records required to be kept and maintained under this part shall be held for 1 year after an animal is euthanized or disposed of and for any period in excess of one year as necessary to comply with any applicable Federal, State, or local law. Whenever the Administrator notifies a dealer, exhibitor, broker, operator of an auction sale, carrier, or intermediate handler in writing that specified records shall be retained pending completion of an investigation or proceeding under the Act, the dealer, exhibitor, broker, operator of an auction sale, carrier, or intermediate handler shall hold those records until their disposition is authorized by the Administrator.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 88 FR 10714, Feb. 21, 2023]

# Subpart H—Compliance With Standards and Holding Period
§ 2.100
Compliance with standards.
(a) Each dealer, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, and intermediate handler shall comply in all respects with the regulations set forth in part 2 and the standards set forth in part 3 of this subchapter for the humane handling, care, treatment, housing, and transportation of animals.
(b) Each carrier shall comply in all respects with the regulations in part 2 and the standards in part 3 of this subchapter setting forth the conditions and requirements for the humane transportation of animals in commerce and their handling, care, and treatment in connection therewith.
§ 2.101
Holding period.
(a) Any live dog or cat acquired by a dealer
5
or exhibitor shall be held by him or her, under his or her supervision and control, for a period of not less than 5 full days, not including the day of acquisition, after acquiring the animal, excluding time in transit:
Provided, however:
5
An operator of an auction sale is not considered to have acquired a dog or cat which is sold through the auction sale.
(1) That any live dog or cat acquired by a dealer or exhibitor from any private or contract animal pound or shelter shall be held by that dealer or exhibitor under his or her supervision and control for a period of not less than 10 full days, not including the day of acquisition, after acquiring the animal, excluding time in transit;
(2) Live dogs or cats which have completed a 5-day holding period with another dealer or exhibitor, or a 10-day holding period with another dealer or exhibitor if obtained from a private or contract shelter or pound, may be sold or otherwise disposed of by subsequent dealers or exhibitors after a minimum holding period of 24 hours by each subsequent dealer or exhibitor excluding time in transit;
(3) Any dog or cat suffering from disease, emaciation, or injury may be destroyed by euthanasia prior to the completion of the holding period required by this section; and
(4) Any live dog or cat, 120 days of age or less, that was obtained from the person that bred and raised such dog or cat, may be exempted from the 5-day holding requirement and may be disposed of by dealers or exhibitors after a minimum holding period of 24 hours, excluding time in transit. Each subsequent dealer or exhibitor must also hold each such dog or cat for a 24-hour period excluding time in transit.
(b) During the period in which any dog or cat is being held as required by this section, the dog or cat shall be unloaded from any means of conveyance in which it was received, for food, water, and rest, and shall be handled, cared for, and treated in accordance with the standards set forth in part 3, subpart A, of this subchapter and § 2.131.
§ 2.102
Holding facility.
(a) If any dealer or exhibitor obtains the prior approval of the Deputy Administrator, he may arrange to have another person hold animals for the required period provided for in paragraph (a) of § 2.101:
Provided,
That:
(1) The other person agrees in writing to comply with the regulations in part 2 and the standards in part 3 of this subchapter and to allow inspection of his premises by an APHIS official during business hours; and
(2) The animals remain under the total control and responsibility of the dealer or exhibitor.
(3) Approval will not be given for a dealer or exhibitor holding a license as set forth in § 2.1 to have animals held for purposes of this section by another licensed dealer or exhibitor. APHIS Form 7009 shall be used for approval.
(4) The other person or premises must either be directly included in the dealer's or exhibitor's contingency plan required under § 2.134 or must develop its own contingency plan in accordance with § 2.134.
(b) If any intermediate handler obtains prior approval of the Deputy Administrator, it may arrange to have another person hold animals:
Provided,
That:
(1) The other person agrees in writing to comply with the regulations in part 2 and the standards in part 3 of this subchapter and to allow inspection of the premises by an APHIS official during business hours; and
(2) The animals remain under the total control and responsibility of the research facility or intermediate handler.
(3) The other person or premises must either be directly included in the intermediate handler's contingency plan required under § 2.134 or must develop its own contingency plan in accordance with § 2.134.
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 13896, Mar. 15, 1995; 63 FR 62927, Nov. 10, 1998; 69 FR 42102, July 14, 2004; 77 FR 76823, Dec. 31, 2012; 85 FR 28798, May 13, 2020]

# Subpart I—Miscellaneous
§ 2.125
Information as to business; furnishing of same by dealers, exhibitors, operators of auction sales, intermediate handlers, and carriers.
Each dealer, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, intermediate handler, and carrier shall furnish to any APHIS official any information concerning the business of the dealer, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, intermediate handler or carrier which the APHIS official may request in connection with the enforcement of the provisions of the Act, the regulations and the standards in this subchapter. The information shall be furnished within a reasonable time and as may be specified in the request for information.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 88 FR 10714, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.126
Access and inspection of records and property; submission of itineraries.
(a) Each dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, or carrier, shall, during business hours, allow APHIS officials:
(1) To enter its place of business;
(2) To examine records required to be kept by the Act and the regulations in this part;
(3) To make copies of the records;
(4) To inspect and photograph the facilities, property and animals, as the APHIS officials consider necessary to enforce the provisions of the Act, the regulations and the standards in this subchapter; and
(5) To document, by the taking of photographs and other means, conditions and areas of noncompliance.
(b) The use of a room, table, or other facilities necessary for the proper examination of the records and inspection of the property or animals must be extended to APHIS officials by the dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler or carrier, and a responsible adult shall be made available to accompany APHIS officials during the inspection process.
(c) Any person who is subject to the Animal Welfare regulations and who
intends to exhibit any animal at any location other than the person's approved site (including, but not limited to, circuses, traveling educational exhibits, animal acts, and petting zoos), except for travel that does not extend overnight, shall submit a written itinerary to the Deputy Administrator. The itinerary shall be received by the Deputy Administrator no fewer than 2 days in advance of any travel and shall contain complete and accurate information concerning the whereabouts of any animal intended for exhibition at any location other than the person's approved site. If the exhibitor accepts an engagement for which travel will begin with less than 48 hours' notice, the exhibitor shall immediately contact the Deputy Administrator in writing with the required information. APHIS expects such situations to occur infrequently, and exhibitors who repeatedly provide less than 48 hours' notice will, after notice by APHIS, be subject to increased scrutiny under the Act.
(1) The itinerary shall include the following:
(i) The name of the person who intends to exhibit the animal and transport the animal for exhibition purposes, including any business name and current Act license or registration number and, in the event that any animal is leased, borrowed, loaned, or under some similar arrangement, the name of the person who owns such animal;
(ii) The name, identification number or identifying characteristics, species (common or scientific name), sex and age of each animal; and
(iii) The names, dates, and locations (with addresses) where the animals will travel, be housed, and be exhibited, including all anticipated dates and locations (with addresses) for any stops and layovers that allow or require removal of the animals from the transport enclosures. Unanticipated delays of such length shall be reported to the Deputy Administrator the next APHIS business day. APHIS Regional offices are available each weekday, except on Federal holidays, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
(2) The itinerary shall be revised as necessary, and the Deputy Administrator shall be notified of any changes. If initial notification of a change due to an emergency is made by a means other than email or facsimile, it shall be followed by written documentation at the earliest possible time. For changes that occur after normal APHIS business hours, the change shall be conveyed to the Deputy Administrator no later than the following APHIS business day. APHIS Regional offices are available each weekday, except on Federal holidays, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0486)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 69 FR 42102, July 14, 2004; 77 FR 76814, Dec. 31, 2012; 85 FR 28798, May 13, 2020; 88 FR 10714, Feb. 21, 2023]
§ 2.127
Publication of lists of persons subject to the provisions of this part.
APHIS will publish on its website lists of persons licensed or registered in accordance with the provisions of this part. The lists may also be obtained upon request from the Deputy Administrator.
[85 FR 28798, May 13, 2020]
§ 2.128
Inspection for missing animals.
Each dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler and carrier shall allow, upon request and during business hours, police or officers of other law enforcement agencies with general law enforcement authority (not those agencies whose duties are limited to enforcement of local animal regulations) to enter his or her place of business to inspect animals and records for the purpose of seeking animals that are missing, under the following conditions:
(a) The police or other law officer shall furnish to the dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler or carrier a written description of the missing animal and the name and address of its owner before making a search.
(b) The police or other law officer shall abide by all security measures required by the dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler or carrier to prevent the spread of disease, including the use of sterile clothing, footwear, and
masks where required, or to prevent the escape of an animal.
§ 2.129
Confiscation and destruction of animals.
(a) If an animal being held by a dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, or by a carrier is found by an APHIS official to be suffering as a result of the failure of the dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, or carrier to comply with any provision of the regulations or the standards set forth in this subchapter, the APHIS official shall make a reasonable effort to notify the dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, or carrier of the condition of the animal(s) and request that the condition be corrected and that adequate care be given to alleviate the animal's suffering or distress, or that the animal(s) be destroyed by euthanasia. In the event that the dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, or carrier refuses to comply with this request, the APHIS official may confiscate the animal(s) for care, treatment, or disposal as indicated in paragraph (b) of this section, if, in the opinion of the Administrator, the circumstances indicate the animal's health is in danger.
(b) In the event that the APHIS official is unable to locate or notify the dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, or carrier as required in this section, the APHIS official shall contact a local police or other law officer to accompany him to the premises and shall provide for adequate care when necessary to alleviate the animal's suffering. If in the opinion of the Administrator, the condition of the animal(s) cannot be corrected by this temporary care, the APHIS official shall confiscate the animals.
(c) Confiscated animals may be:
(1) Placed, by sale or donation, with other licensees or registrants that comply with the standards and regulations and can provide proper care; or
(2) Placed with persons or facilities that can offer a level of care equal to or exceeding the standards and regulations, as determined by APHIS, even if the persons or facilities are not licensed by or registered with APHIS; or
(3) Euthanized.
(d) The dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, or carrier from whom the animals were confiscated must bear all costs incurred in performing the placement or euthanasia activities authorized by this section.
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 66 FR 239, Jan. 3, 2001]
§ 2.130
Minimum age requirements.
No dog or cat shall be delivered by any person to any carrier or intermediate handler for transportation, in commerce, or shall be transported in commerce by any person, except to a registered research facility, unless such dog or cat is at least eight (8) weeks of age and has been weaned.
§ 2.131
Handling of animals.
(a) All licensees who maintain wild or exotic animals must demonstrate adequate experience and knowledge of the species they maintain.
(b)(1) Handling of all animals shall be done as expeditiously and carefully as possible in a manner that does not cause trauma, overheating, excessive cooling, behavioral stress, physical harm, or unnecessary discomfort.
(2)(i) Physical abuse shall not be used to train, work, or otherwise handle animals.
(ii) Deprivation of food or water shall not be used to train, work, or otherwise handle animals;
Provided, however,
That the short-term withholding of food or water from animals by exhibitors is allowed by these regulations as long as each of the animals affected receives its full dietary and nutrition requirements each day.
(c)(1) During public exhibition, any animal must be handled so there is minimal risk of harm to the animal and to the public, with sufficient distance and/or barriers between the animal and the general viewing public so as to assure the safety of animals and the public.
(2) Performing animals shall be allowed a rest period between performances at least equal to the time for one performance.
(3) Young or immature animals shall not be exposed to rough or excessive public handling or exhibited for periods of time which would be detrimental to their health or well-being.
(4) Drugs, such as tranquilizers, shall not be used to facilitate, allow, or provide for public handling of the animals.
(d)(1) Animals shall be exhibited only for periods of time and under conditions consistent with their good health and well-being.
(2) A responsible, knowledgeable, and readily identifiable employee or attendant must be present at all times during periods of public contact.
(3) During public exhibition, dangerous animals such as lions, tigers, wolves, bears, or elephants must be under the direct control and supervision of a knowledgeable and experienced animal handler.
(4) If public feeding of animals is allowed, the food must be provided by the animal facility and shall be appropriate to the type of animal and its nutritional needs and diet.
(e) When climatic conditions present a threat to an animal's health or well-being, appropriate measures must be taken to alleviate the impact of those conditions. An animal may never be subjected to any combination of temperature, humidity, and time that is detrimental to the animal's health or well-being, taking into consideration such factors as the animal's age, species, breed, overall health status, and acclimation.
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 63 FR 10498, Mar. 4, 1998; 69 FR 42102, July 14, 2004]
§ 2.132
Procurement of dogs, cats, and other animals; dealers.
(a) A class “B” dealer may obtain live random source dogs and cats only from:
(1) Other dealers who are licensed under the Act and in accordance with the regulations in part 2;
(2) State, county, or city owned and operated animal pounds or shelters; and
(3) A legal entity organized and operated under the laws of the State in which it is located as an animal pound or shelter, such as a humane shelter or contract pound.
(b) No person shall obtain live dogs, cats, or other animals by use of false pretenses, misrepresentation, or deception.
(c) Any dealer, exhibitor, research facility, carrier, or intermediate handler who also operates a private or contract animal pound or shelter shall comply with the following:
(1) The animal pound or shelter shall be located on premises that are physically separated from the licensed or registered facility. The animal housing facility of the pound or shelter shall not be adjacent to the licensed or registered facility.
(2) Accurate and complete records shall be separately maintained by the licensee or registrant and by the pound or shelter. The records shall be in accordance with §§ 2.75 and 2.76, unless the animals are lost or stray. If the animals are lost or stray, the pound or shelter records shall provide:
(i) An accurate description of the animal;
(ii) How, where, from whom, and when the dog or cat was obtained;
(iii) How long the dog or cat was held by the pound or shelter before being transferred to the dealer; and
(iv) The date the dog or cat was transferred to the dealer.
(3) Any dealer who obtains or acquires a live dog or cat from a private or contract pound or shelter, including a pound or shelter he or she operates, shall hold the dog or cat for a period of at least 10 full days, not including the day of acquisition, excluding time in transit, after acquiring the animal, and otherwise in accordance with § 2.101.
(d) No dealer or exhibitor shall knowingly obtain any dog, cat, or other animal from any person who is required to be licensed but who does not hold a current, valid, and unsuspended license. No dealer or exhibitor shall knowingly obtain any dog or cat from any person who is not licensed, other than a pound or shelter, without obtaining a certification that the animals were born and raised on that person's premises and, if the animals are for research purposes, that the person has sold fewer than 25 dogs and/or cats that year, or, if the animals are for use as pets, that the person does not maintain
more than four breeding female dogs and/or cats.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0036)
[54 FR 36147, Aug. 31, 1989, as amended at 69 FR 42102, July 14, 2004; 80 FR 3463, Jan. 23, 2015; 85 FR 28798, May 13, 2020]
§ 2.133
Certification for random source dogs and cats.
(a) Each of the entities listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section that acquire any live dog or cat shall, before selling or providing the live dog or cat to a dealer, hold and care for the dog or cat for a period of not less than 5 full days after acquiring the animal, not including the date of acquisition and excluding time in transit. This holding period shall include at least one Saturday. The provisions of this paragraph apply to:
(1) Each pound or shelter owned and operated by a State, county, or city;
(2) Each private pound or shelter established for the purpose of caring for animals, such as a humane society, or other organization that is under contract with a State, county, or city, that operates as a pound or shelter, and that releases animals on a voluntary basis; and
(3) Each research facility licensed by USDA as a dealer.
(b) A dealer shall not sell, provide, or make available to any person a live random source dog or cat unless the dealer provides the recipient of the dog or cat with certification that contains the following information:
(1) The name, address, USDA license number, and signature of the dealer;
(2) The name, address, USDA license or registration number, if such number exists, and signature of the recipient of the dog or cat;
(3) A description of each dog or cat being sold, provided, or made available that shall include:
(i) The species and breed or type (for mixed breeds, estimate the two dominant breeds or types);
(ii) The sex;
(iii) The date of birth or, if unknown, then the approximate age;
(iv) The color and any distinctive markings; and
(v) The Official USDA-approved identification number of the animal. However, if the certification is attached to a certificate provided by a prior dealer which contains the required description, then only the official identification numbers are required;
(4) The name and address of the person, pound, or shelter from which the dog or cat was acquired by the dealer, and an assurance that the person, pound, or shelter was notified that the cat or dog might be used for research or educational purposes;
(5) The date the dealer acquired the dog or cat from the person, pound, or shelter referred to in paragraph (b)(4) of this section; and
(6) If the dealer acquired the dog or cat from a pound or shelter, a signed statement by the pound or shelter that it met the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. This statement must at least describe the animals by their official USDA identification numbers. It may be incorporated within the certification if the dealer makes the certification at the time that the animals are acquired from the pound or shelter or it may be made separately and attached to the certification later. If made separately, it must include the same information describing each animal as is required in the certification. A photocopy of the statement will be regarded as a duplicate original.
(c) The original certification required under paragraph (b) of this section shall accompany the shipment of a live dog or cat to be sold, provided, or otherwise made available by the dealer.
(d) A dealer who acquires a live dog or cat from another dealer must obtain from that dealer the certification required by paragraph (b) of this section and must attach that certification (including any previously attached certification) to the certification which he or she provides pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section (a photocopy of the original certification will be deemed a duplicate original if the dealer does not dispose of all of the dogs or cats in a single transaction).
(e) A dealer who completes, provides, or receives a certification required under paragraph (b) of this section shall keep, maintain, and make available for APHIS inspection a copy of the certification for at least 1 year following disposition.
(f) A research facility which acquires any live random source dog or cat from a dealer must obtain the certification required under paragraph (b) of this section and shall keep, maintain, and make available for APHIS inspection the original for at least 3 years following disposition.
(g) In instances where a research facility transfers ownership of a live random source dog or cat acquired from a dealer to another research facility, a copy of the certification required by paragraph (b) of this section must accompany the dog or cat transferred. The research facility to which the dog or cat is transferred shall keep, maintain, and make available for APHIS inspection the copy of the certification for at least 3 years following disposition.
[58 FR 39129, July 22, 1993]
§ 2.134
Contingency planning.
(a) Dealers, exhibitors, intermediate handlers, and carriers must develop, document, and follow an appropriate plan to provide for the humane handling, treatment, transportation, housing, and care of their animals in the event of an emergency or disaster (one which could reasonably be anticipated and expected to be detrimental to the good health and well-being of the animals in their possession). Such contingency plans must:
(1) Identify situations the licensee or registrant might experience that would trigger the need for the measures identified in a contingency plan to be put into action including, but not limited to, emergencies such as electrical outages, faulty HVAC systems, fires, mechanical breakdowns, and animal escapes, as well as natural disasters most likely to be experienced;
(2) Outline specific tasks required to be carried out in response to the identified emergencies or disasters including, but not limited to, detailed animal evacuation instructions or shelter-in-place instructions and provisions for providing backup sources of food and water as well as sanitation, ventilation, bedding, veterinary care, etc.;
(3) Identify a chain of command and who (by name or by position title) will be responsible for fulfilling these tasks; and
(4) Address how response and recovery will be handled in terms of materials, resources, and training needed.
(b) For current licensees and registrants, the contingency plan must be in place by July 5, 2022. For new dealers, exhibitors, intermediate handlers, and carriers licensed or registered after this date, the contingency plan must be in place prior to conducting regulated activities. The plan must be reviewed by the dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, or carrier on at least an annual basis to ensure that it adequately addresses the criteria listed in paragraph (a) of this section. Each licensee and registrant must maintain documentation of their annual reviews, including documenting any amendments or changes made to their plan since the previous year's review, such as changes made as a result of recently predicted, but historically unforeseen, circumstances (e.g., weather extremes). Contingency plans, as well as all annual review documentation, must be made available to APHIS upon request. Traveling entities must carry a copy of their contingency plan with them at all times and make it available for APHIS inspection while in travel status. The APHIS Contingency Plan form may be used to keep and maintain the information required by § 2.38(l)(1) and (2).
(c) Dealers, exhibitors, intermediate handlers, and carriers must provide training for their personnel regarding their roles and responsibilities as outlined in the plan. For current licensees and registrants, training of dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, and carrier personnel must be completed within 60 days of the licensee and registrant putting their contingency plan in place; for new dealers, exhibitors, intermediate handlers, or carriers licensed or registered after July 5, 2022, training of personnel must be completed within 60 days of the dealer, exhibitor, intermediate handler, or carrier putting their contingency plan in place. This deadline applies to employees hired before and up to 30 days after the date the licensee or registrant puts its contingency plan in place. For employees hired more than 30 days after the date the licensee or registrant puts its contingency plan in place, training
must be conducted within 30 days of their start date. Any substantive changes to the plan as a result of the annual review must be communicated to employees through training which must be conducted within 30 days of making the changes.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0479)
[77 FR 76823, Dec. 31, 2012, as amended at 86 FR 68537, Dec. 3, 2021]

# Subpart J—Importation of Live Dogs

# Source:
79 FR 48659, Aug. 18, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2.150
Import permit.
(a) No person shall import a live dog from any part of the world into the States for purposes of resale unless the dog is accompanied by an import permit issued by APHIS and is imported into the States within 30 days after the proposed date of arrival stated in the import permit.
(b) An application for an import permit must be submitted to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Animal Care, 4700 River Road Unit 84, Riverdale, MD 20737-1234 or though Animal Care's Web site (
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/animal_welfare/
). Application forms for import permits may be obtained from Animal Care at the address listed above.
(c) The completed application must include the following information:
(1) The name and address of the person intending to export the dog(s) to the States;
(2) The name and address of the person intending to import the dog(s) into the States;
(3) The number of dogs to be imported and the breed, sex, age, color, markings, and other identifying information of each dog;
(4) The purpose of the importation;
(5) The port of embarkation and the mode of transportation;
(6) The port of entry in the United States;
(7) The proposed date of arrival in the States; and
(8) The name and address of the person to whom the dog(s) will be delivered in the States and, if the dog(s) is or are imported for resale for research purposes, the USDA registration number of the research facility where the dog will be used for research, tests, or experiments.
(d) After receipt and review of the application by APHIS, an import permit indicating the applicable conditions for importation under this subpart may be issued for the importation of the dog(s) described in the application if such dog(s) appears to be eligible to be imported. Even though an import permit has been issued for the importation of a dog, the dog may only be imported if all applicable requirements of this subpart and any other applicable regulations of this subchapter and any other statute or regulation of any State or of the United States are met.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0379)
[79 FR 48659, Aug. 18, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 28798, May 13, 2020]
§ 2.151
Certifications.
(a)
Required certificates.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no person shall import a live dog from any part of the world into the States for purposes of resale unless the following conditions are met:
(1)
Health certificate.
Each dog is accompanied by an original health certificate issued in English by a licensed veterinarian with a valid license to practice veterinary medicine in the country of export that:
(i) Specifies the name and address of the person intending to import the dog into the States;
(ii) Identifies the dog on the basis of breed, sex, age, color, markings, and other identifying information;
(iii) States that the dog is at least 6 months of age;
(iv) States that the dog was vaccinated, not more than 12 months before the date of arrival at the U.S. port, for distemper, hepatitis, leptospirosis, parvovirus, and parainfluenza virus (DHLPP) at a frequency that provides continuous protection of the dog from those diseases and is in accordance with currently accepted practices as cited in veterinary medicine reference guides;
(v) States that the dog is in good health (
i.e.
, free of any infectious disease or physical abnormality which would endanger the dog or other animals or endanger public health, including, but not limited to, parasitic infection, emaciation, lesions of the skin, nervous system disturbances, jaundice, or diarrhea); and
(vi) Bears the signature and the license number of the veterinarian issuing the certificate.
(2)
Rabies vaccination certificate.
Each dog is accompanied by a valid rabies vaccination certificate
6
that was issued in English by a licensed veterinarian with a valid license to practice veterinary medicine in the country of export for the dog not less than 3 months of age at the time of vaccination that:
6
Alternatively, this requirement can be met by providing an exact copy of the rabies vaccination certificate if so required under the Public Health Service regulations in 42 CFR 71.51.
(i) Specifies the name and address of the person intending to import the dog into the States;
(ii) Identifies the dog on the basis of breed, sex, age, color, markings, and other identifying information;
(iii) Specifies a date of rabies vaccination at least 30 days before the date of arrival of the dog at a U.S. port;
(iv) Specifies a date of expiration of the vaccination which is after the date of arrival of the dog at a U.S. port. If no date of expiration is specified, then the date of vaccination shall be no more than 12 months before the date of arrival at a U.S. port; and
(v) Bears the signature and the license number of the veterinarian issuing the certificate.
(b)
Exceptions
—(1)
Research.
The provisions of paragraphs (a)(1)(iii), (a)(1)(iv), (a)(1)(v), and/or (a)(2) of this section do not apply to any person who imports a live dog from any part of the world into the States for resale for use in research, tests, or experiments at a research facility, provided that: Such person submits satisfactory evidence to Animal Care at the time of his or her application for an import permit that the specific provision(s) would interfere with the dog's use in such research, tests, or experiments in accordance with a research proposal and the proposal has been approved by the research facility IACUC.
(2)
Veterinary care.
The provisions of paragraphs (a)(1)(iii) through (a)(1)(v) and (a)(2) of this section do not apply to any person who imports a live dog from any part of the world into the States for veterinary treatment by a licensed veterinarian and subsequent resale, provided that:
(i) The original health certificate required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section states that the dog is in need of veterinary treatment that cannot be obtained in the country of export and states the name and address of the licensed veterinarian in the United States who intends to provide the dog such veterinary treatment; and
(ii) The person who imports the dog completes a veterinary treatment agreement with Animal Care at the time of application for an import permit and confines the animal until the conditions specified in the agreement are met. Such conditions may include determinations by the licensed veterinarian in the United States that the dog is in good health, has been adequately vaccinated against DHLPP and rabies, and is at least 6 months of age. The person importing the dog shall bear the expense of veterinary treatment and confinement.
(3)
Dogs imported into Hawaii from the British Isles, Australia, Guam, or New Zealand.
The provisions of paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section do not apply to any person who lawfully imports a live dog into the State of Hawaii from the British Isles, Australia, Guam, or New Zealand in compliance with the applicable regulations of the State of Hawaii, provided that the dog is not transported out of the State of Hawaii for purposes of resale at less than 6 months of age.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0379)
[79 FR 48659, Aug. 18, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 28798, May 13, 2020]
§ 2.152
Notification of arrival.
Upon the arrival of a dog at the port of first arrival in the States, the person intending to import the dog, or his or her agent, must present the import
permit and any applicable certifications and veterinary treatment agreement required by this subpart to the collector of customs for use at that port.
[79 FR 48659, Aug. 18, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 28798, May 13, 2020]
§ 2.153
Dogs refused entry.
Any dog refused entry into the States for noncompliance with the requirements of this subpart or the Act may be removed from the States or may be seized and the person intending to import the dog shall provide for the care (including appropriate veterinary care), forfeiture, and adoption of the dog, at his or her expense.
[79 FR 48659, Aug. 18, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 28798, May 13, 2020]
Pt. 3

# PART 3—STANDARDS

# Subpart A—Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment, and Transportation of Dogs and Cats

# Facilities and Operating Standards
Sec.
3.1
Housing facilities, general.
3.2
Indoor housing facilities.
3.3
Sheltered housing facilities.
3.4
Outdoor housing facilities.
3.5
Mobile or traveling housing facilities.
3.6
Primary enclosures.

# Animal Health and Husbandry Standards
3.7
Compatible grouping.
3.8
Exercise for dogs.
3.9
Feeding.
3.10
Watering.
3.11
Cleaning, sanitization, housekeeping, and pest control.
3.12
Employees.
3.13
Veterinary care for dogs.

# Transportation Standards
3.14
Consignments to carriers and intermediate handlers.
3.15
Primary enclosures used to transport live dogs and cats.
3.16
Primary conveyances (motor vehicle, rail, air, and marine).
3.17
Food and water requirements.
3.18
Care in transit.
3.19
Terminal facilities.
3.20
Handling.

# Subpart B—Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment, and Transportation of Guinea Pigs and Hamsters

# Facilities and Operating Standards
3.25
Facilities, general.
3.26
Facilities, indoor.
3.27
Facilities, outdoor.
3.28
Primary enclosures.

# Animal Health and Husbandry Standards
3.29
Feeding.
3.30
Watering.
3.31
Sanitation.
3.32
Employees.
3.33
Classification and separation.
3.34
[Reserved]

# Transportation Standards
3.35
Consignments to carriers and intermediate handlers.
3.36
Primary enclosures used to transport live guinea pigs and hamsters.
3.37
Primary conveyances (motor vehicle, rail, air, and marine).
3.38
Food and water requirements.
3.39
Care in transit.
3.40
Terminal facilities.
3.41
Handling.

# Subpart C—Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment and Transportation of Rabbits

# Facilities and Operating Standards
3.50
Facilities, general.
3.51
Facilities, indoor.
3.52
Facilities, outdoor.
3.53
Primary enclosures.

# Animal Health and Husbandry Standards
3.54
Feeding.
3.55
Watering.
3.56
Sanitation.
3.57
Employees.
3.58
Classification and separation.
3.59
[Reserved]

# Transportation Standards
3.60
Consignments to carriers and intermediate handlers.
3.61
Primary enclosures used to transport live rabbits.
3.62
Primary conveyances (motor vehicle, rail, air, and marine).
3.63
Food and water requirements.
3.64
Care in transit.
3.65
Terminal facilities.
3.66
Handling.

# Subpart D—Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment, and Transportation of Nonhuman Primates

# Facilities and Operating Standards
3.75
Housing facilities, general.
3.76
Indoor housing facilities.
3.77
Sheltered housing facilities.
3.78
Outdoor housing facilities.
3.79
Mobile or traveling housing facilities.
3.80
Primary enclosures.
3.81
Environment enhancement to promote psychological well-being.

# Animal Health and Husbandry Standards
3.82
Feeding.
3.83
Watering.
3.84
Cleaning, sanitization, housekeeping, and pest control.
3.85
Employees.

# Transportation Standards
3.86
Consignments to carriers and intermediate handlers.
3.87
Primary enclosures used to transport nonhuman primates.
3.88
Primary conveyances (motor vehicle, rail, air, and marine).
3.89
Food and water requirements.
3.90
Care in transit.
3.91
Terminal facilities.
3.92
Handling.

# Subpart E—Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment, and Transportation of Marine Mammals

# Facilities and Operating Standards
3.100
Special considerations regarding compliance and/or variance.
3.101
Facilities, general.
3.102
Facilities, indoor.
3.103
Facilities, outdoor.
3.104
Space requirements.

# Animal Health and Husbandry Standards
3.105
Feeding.
3.106
Water quality.
3.107
Sanitation.
3.108
Employees or attendants.
3.109
Separation.
3.110
Veterinary care.
3.111
Swim-with-the-dolphin programs.

# Transportation Standards
3.112
Consignments to carriers and intermediate handlers.
3.113
Primary enclosures used to transport marine mammals.
3.114
Primary conveyances (motor vehicle, rail, air, and marine).
3.115
Food and drinking water requirements.
3.116
Care in transit.
3.117
Terminal facilities.
3.118
Handling.

# Subpart F—Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment, and Transportation of Warmblooded Animals Other Than Dogs, Cats, Rabbits, Hamsters, Guinea Pigs, Nonhuman Primates, Marine Mammals, and Birds

# Facilities and Operating Standards
3.125
Facilities, general.
3.126
Facilities, indoor.
3.127
Facilities, outdoor.
3.128
Space requirements.

# Animal Health and Husbandry Standards
3.129
Feeding.
3.130
Watering.
3.131
Sanitation.
3.132
Employees.
3.133
Separation.
3.134-3.135
[Reserved]

# Transportation Standards
3.136
Consignments to carriers and intermediate handlers.
3.137
Primary enclosures used to transport live animals.
3.138
Primary conveyances (motor vehicle, rail, air, and marine).
3.139
Food and water requirements.
3.140
Care in transit.
3.141
Terminal facilities.
3.142
Handling.

# Subpart G—Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment, and Transportation of Birds

# Facilities and Operating Standards
3.150
Facilities, general.
3.151
Facilities, indoor.
3.152
Facilities, outdoor.
3.153
Primary enclosures.
3.154
Environmental enhancement to promote psychological well-being.

# Animal Health and Husbandry Standards
3.155
Feeding.
3.156
Watering.
3.157
Water quality.
3.158
Cleaning, sanitization, housekeeping, and pest control.
3.159
Employees.
3.160
Compatibility and separation.

# Transportation Standards
3.161
Consignments to carriers and intermediate handlers.
3.162
Primary enclosures used to transport live birds.
3.163
Primary conveyances (motor vehicle, rail, air, and marine).
3.164
Food and water requirements.
3.165
Care in transit.
3.166
Terminal facilities.
3.167
Handling.
3.168
Climatic and environmental conditions during transportation.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2131-2159; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.7.

# Source:
32 FR 3273, Feb. 24, 1967, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment, and Transportation of Dogs and Cats
1

# Source:
56 FR 6486, Feb. 15, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

# Facilities and Operating Standards
§ 3.1
Housing facilities, general.
(a)
Structure;
construction. Housing facilities for dogs and cats must be designed and constructed so that they are structurally sound. They must be kept in good repair, and they must protect the animals from injury, contain the animals securely, and restrict other animals from entering.
1
These minimum standards apply only to live dogs and cats, unless stated otherwise.
(b)
Condition and site.
Housing facilities and areas used for storing animal food or bedding must be free of any accumulation of trash, waste material, junk, weeds, and other discarded materials. Animal areas inside of housing facilities must be kept neat and free of clutter, including equipment, furniture, and stored material, but may contain materials actually used and necessary for cleaning the area, and fixtures or equipment necessary for proper husbandry practices and research needs. Housing facilities other than those maintained by research facilities and Federal research facilities must be physically separated from any other business. If a housing facility is located on the same premises as another business, it must be physically separated from the other business so that animals the size of dogs, skunks, and raccoons are prevented from entering it.
(c)
Surfaces
—(1)
General requirements.
The surfaces of housing facilities—including houses, dens, and other furniture-type fixtures and objects within the facility—must be constructed in a manner and made of materials that allow them to be readily cleaned and sanitized, or removed or replaced when worn or soiled. Interior surfaces and any surfaces that come in contact with dogs or cats must:
(i) Be free of excessive rust that prevents the required cleaning and sanitization, or that affects the structural strength of the surface; and
(ii) Be free of jagged edges or sharp points that might injure the animals.
(2)
Maintenance and replacement of surfaces.
All surfaces must be maintained on a regular basis. Surfaces of housing facilities—including houses, dens, and other furniture-type fixtures and objects within the facility—that cannot be readily cleaned and sanitized, must be replaced when worn or soiled.
(3)
Cleaning.
Hard surfaces with which the dogs or cats come in contact must be spot-cleaned daily and sanitized in accordance with § 3.11(b) of this subpart to prevent accumulation of excreta and reduce disease hazards. Floors made of dirt, absorbent bedding, sand, gravel, grass, or other similar material must be raked or spot-cleaned with sufficient frequency to ensure all animals the freedom to avoid contact with excreta. Contaminated material must be replaced whenever this raking and spot-cleaning is not sufficient to prevent or eliminate odors, insects, pests, or vermin infestation. All other surfaces of housing facilities must be cleaned and sanitized when necessary to satisfy generally accepted husbandry standards and practices. Sanitization may be done using any of the methods provided in § 3.11(b)(3) for primary enclosures.
(d)
Water and electric power.
The housing facility must have reliable electric power adequate for heating, cooling, ventilation, and lighting, and for carrying out other husbandry requirements in accordance with the regulations in this subpart. The housing facility must provide adequate running potable water for the dogs' and cats' drinking needs, for cleaning, and for carrying out other husbandry requirements.
(e)
Storage.
Supplies of food and bedding must be stored in a manner that protects the supplies from spoilage, contamination, and vermin infestation. The supplies must be stored off the floor and away from the walls, to allow cleaning underneath and around the supplies. Foods requiring refrigeration must be stored accordingly, and all food must be stored in a manner that prevents contamination and deterioration of its nutritive value. All open supplies of food and bedding must be kept in leakproof containers with tightly fitting lids to prevent contamination and spoilage. Only food and bedding that is currently being used may be kept in the animal areas. Substances that are toxic to the dogs or cats but are required for normal husbandry practices must not be stored in food storage and preparation areas, but may be stored in cabinets in the animal areas.
(f)
Drainage and waste disposal.
Housing facility operators must provide for regular and frequent collection, removal, and disposal of animal and food wastes, bedding, debris, garbage, water, other fluids and wastes, and dead animals, in a manner that minimizes contamination and disease risks. Housing facilities must be equipped with disposal facilities and drainage systems that are constructed and operated so that animal waste and water are rapidly eliminated and animals stay dry. Disposal and drainage systems must minimize vermin and pest infestation, insects, odors, and disease hazards. All drains must be properly constructed, installed, and maintained. If closed drainage systems are used, they must be equipped with traps and prevent the backflow of gases and the backup of sewage onto the floor. If the facility uses sump or settlement ponds, or other similar systems for drainage and animal waste disposal, the system must be located far enough away from the animal area of the housing facility to prevent odors, diseases, pests, and vermin infestation. Standing puddles of water in animal enclosures must be drained or mopped up so that the animals stay dry. Trash containers in housing facilities and in food storage and food preparation areas must be leakproof and must have tightly fitted lids on them at all times. Dead animals, animal parts, and animal waste must not be kept in food storage or food preparation areas, food freezers, food refrigerators, or animal areas.
(g)
Washrooms and sinks.
Washing facilities such as washrooms, basins, sinks, or showers must be provided for animal caretakers and must be readily accessible.
§ 3.2
Indoor housing facilities.
(a)
Heating, cooling, and temperature.
Indoor housing facilities for dogs and cats must be sufficiently heated and cooled when necessary to protect the dogs and cats from temperature or humidity extremes and to provide for their health and well-being. When dogs or cats are present, the ambient temperature in the facility must not fall below 50 °F (10 °C) for dogs and cats not acclimated to lower temperatures, for those breeds that cannot tolerate lower temperatures without stress or discomfort (such as short-haired breeds), and for sick, aged, young, or infirm dogs and cats, except as approved by the attending veterinarian. Dry bedding, solid resting boards, or other methods of conserving body heat must be provided when temperatures are below 50 °F (10 °C). The ambient temperature must not fall below 45 °F (7.2 °C) for more than 4 consecutive hours when dogs or cats are present, and must not rise above 85 °F (29.5 °C) for more than 4 consecutive hours when dogs or cats are present. The preceding requirements are in addition to, not in place of, all other requirements pertaining to climatic conditions in parts 2 and 3 of this chapter.
(b)
Ventilation.
Indoor housing facilities for dogs and cats must be sufficiently ventilated at all times when dogs or cats are present to provide for their health and well-being, and to minimize odors, drafts, ammonia levels, and moisture condensation. Ventilation must be provided by windows, vents, fans, or air conditioning. Auxiliary ventilation, such as fans, blowers, or air conditioning must be provided when the ambient temperature is 85 °F (29.5 °C) or higher. The relative humidity must be maintained at a level that ensures the health and well-being of
the dogs or cats housed therein, in accordance with the directions of the attending veterinarian and generally accepted professional and husbandry practices.
(c)
Lighting.
Indoor housing facilities for dogs and cats must be lighted well enough to permit routine inspection and cleaning of the facility, and observation of the dogs and cats. Animal areas must be provided a regular diurnal lighting cycle of either natural or artificial light. Lighting must be uniformly diffused throughout animal facilities and provide sufficient illumination to aid in maintaining good housekeeping practices, adequate cleaning, adequate inspection of animals, and for the well-being of the animals. Primary enclosures must be placed so as to protect the dogs and cats from excessive light.
(d)
Interior surfaces.
The floors and walls of indoor housing facilities, and any other surfaces in contact with the animals, must be impervious to moisture. The ceilings of indoor housing facilities must be impervious to moisture or be replaceable (e.g., a suspended ceiling with replaceable panels).
[56 FR 6486, Feb. 15, 1991, as amended at 63 FR 10498, Mar. 4, 1998]
§ 3.3
Sheltered housing facilities.
(a)
Heating, cooling, and temperature.
The sheltered part of sheltered housing facilities for dogs and cats must be sufficiently heated and cooled when necessary to protect the dogs and cats from temperature or humidity extremes and to provide for their health and well-being. The ambient temperature in the sheltered part of the facility must not fall below 50 °F (10 °C) for dogs and cats not acclimated to lower temperatures, for those breeds that cannot tolerate lower temperatures without stress and discomfort (such as short-haired breeds), and for sick, aged, young, or infirm dogs or cats, except as approved by the attending veterinarian. Dry bedding, solid resting boards, or other methods of conserving body heat must be provided when temperatures are below 50 °F (10 °C). The ambient temperature must not fall below 45 °F (7.2 °C) for more than 4 consecutive hours when dogs or cats are present, and must not rise above 85 °F (29.5 °C) for more than 4 consecutive hours when dogs or cats are present. The preceding requirements are in addition to, not in place of, all other requirements pertaining to climatic conditions in parts 2 and 3 of this chapter.
(b)
Ventilation.
The enclosed or sheltered part of sheltered housing facilities for dogs and cats must be sufficiently ventilated when dogs or cats are present to provide for their health and well-being, and to minimize odors, drafts, ammonia levels, and moisture condensation. Ventilation must be provided by windows, doors, vents, fans, or air conditioning. Auxiliary ventilation, such as fans, blowers, or air-conditioning, must be provided when the ambient temperature is 85 °F (29.5 °C) or higher.
(c)
Lighting.
Sheltered housing facilities for dogs and cats must be lighted well enough to permit routine inspection and cleaning of the facility, and observation of the dogs and cats. Animal areas must be provided a regular diurnal lighting cycle of either natural or artificial light. Lighting must be uniformly diffused throughout animal facilities and provide sufficient illumination to aid in maintaining good housekeeping practices, adequate cleaning, adequate inspection of animals, and for the well-being of the animals. Primary enclosures must be placed so as to protect the dogs and cats from excessive light.
(d)
Shelter from the elements.
Dogs and cats must be provided with adequate shelter from the elements at all times to protect their health and well-being. The shelter structures must be large enough to allow each animal to sit, stand, and lie in a normal manner and to turn about freely.
(e)
Surfaces.
(1) The following areas in sheltered housing facilities must be impervious to moisture:
(i) Indoor floor areas in contact with the animals;
(ii) Outdoor floor areas in contact with the animals, when the floor areas are not exposed to the direct sun, or are made of a hard material such as wire, wood, metal, or concrete; and
(iii) All walls, boxes, houses, dens, and other surfaces in contact with the animals.
(2) Outside floor areas in contact with the animals and exposed to the direct sun may consist of compacted earth, absorbent bedding, sand, gravel, or grass.
[56 FR 6486, Feb. 15, 1991, as amended at 63 FR 10498, Mar. 4, 1998]
§ 3.4
Outdoor housing facilities.
(a)
Restrictions.
(1) The following categories of dogs or cats must not be kept in outdoor facilities, unless that practice is specifically approved by the attending veterinarian:
(i) Dogs or cats that are not acclimated to the temperatures prevalent in the area or region where they are maintained;
(ii) Breeds of dogs or cats that cannot tolerate the prevalent temperatures of the area without stress or discomfort (such as short-haired breeds in cold climates); and
(iii) Sick, infirm, aged or young dogs or cats.
(2) When their acclimation status is unknown, dogs and cats must not be kept in outdoor facilities when the ambient temperature is less than 50 °F (10 °C).
(b)
Shelter from the elements.
Outdoor facilities for dogs or cats must include one or more shelter structures that are accessible to each animal in each outdoor facility, and that are large enough to allow each animal in the shelter structure to sit, stand, and lie in a normal manner, and to turn about freely. In addition to the shelter structures, one or more separate outside areas of shade must be provided, large enough to contain all the animals at one time and protect them from the direct rays of the sun. Shelters in outdoor facilities for dogs or cats must contain a roof, four sides, and a floor, and must:
(1) Provide the dogs and cats with adequate protection and shelter from the cold and heat;
(2) Provide the dogs and cats with protection from the direct rays of the sun and the direct effect of wind, rain, or snow;
(3) Be provided with a wind break and rain break at the entrance; and
(4) Contain clean, dry, bedding material if the ambient temperature is below 50 °F (10 °C). Additional clean, dry bedding is required when the temperature is 35 °F (1.7 °C) or lower.
(c)
Construction.
Building surfaces in contact with animals in outdoor housing facilities must be impervious to moisture. Metal barrels, cars, refrigerators or freezers, and the like must not be used as shelter structures. The floors of outdoor housing facilities may be of compacted earth, absorbent bedding, sand, gravel, or grass, and must be replaced if there are any prevalent odors, diseases, insects, pests, or vermin. All surfaces must be maintained on a regular basis. Surfaces of outdoor housing facilities—including houses, dens, etc.—that cannot be readily cleaned and sanitized, must be replaced when worn or soiled.
§ 3.5
Mobile or traveling housing facilities.
(a)
Heating, cooling, and temperature.
Mobile or traveling housing facilities for dogs and cats must be sufficiently heated and cooled when necessary to protect the dogs and cats from temperature or humidity extremes and to provide for their health and well-being. The ambient temperature in the mobile or traveling housing facility must not fall below 50 °F (10 °C) for dogs and cats not acclimated to lower temperatures, for those breeds that cannot tolerate lower temperatures without stress or discomfort (such as short-haired breeds), and for sick, aged, young, or infirm dogs and cats. Dry bedding, solid resting boards, or other methods of conserving body heat must be provided when temperatures are below 50 °F (10 °C). The ambient temperature must not fall below 45 °F (7.2 °C) for more than 4 consecutive hours when dogs or cats are present, and must not exceed 85 °F (29.5 °C) for more than 4 consecutive hours when dogs or cats are present. The preceding requirements are in addition to, not in place of, all other requirements pertaining to climatic conditions in parts 2 and 3 of this chapter.
(b)
Ventilation.
Mobile or traveling housing facilities for dogs and cats must be sufficiently ventilated at all times when dogs or cats are present to provide for the health and well-being of the animals, and to minimize odors,
drafts, ammonia levels, moisture condensation, and exhaust fumes. Ventilation must be provided by means of windows, doors, vents, fans, or air conditioning. Auxiliary ventilation, such as fans, blowers, or air conditioning, must be provided when the ambient temperature within the animal housing area is 85 °F (29.5 °C) or higher.
(c)
Lighting.
Mobile or traveling housing facilities for dogs and cats must be lighted well enough to permit proper cleaning and inspection of the facility, and observation of the dogs and cats. Animal areas must be provided a regular diurnal lighting cycle of either natural or artificial light. Lighting must be uniformly diffused throughout animal facilities and provide sufficient illumination to aid in maintaining good housekeeping practices, adequate cleaning, adequate inspection of animals, and for the well-being of the animals.
[32 FR 3273, Feb. 24, 1967, as amended at 63 FR 10498, Mar. 4, 1998]
§ 3.6
Primary enclosures.
Primary enclosures for dogs and cats must meet the following minimum requirements:
(a)
General requirements.
(1) Primary enclosures must be designed and constructed of suitable materials so that they are structurally sound. The primary enclosures must be kept in good repair.
(2) Primary enclosures must be constructed and maintained so that they:
(i) Have no sharp points or edges that could injure the dogs and cats;
(ii) Protect the dogs and cats from injury;
(iii) Contain the dogs and cats securely;
(iv) Keep other animals from entering the enclosure;
(v) Enable the dogs and cats to remain dry and clean;
(vi) Provide shelter and protection from extreme temperatures and weather conditions that may be uncomfortable or hazardous to all the dogs and cats;
(vii) Provide sufficient shade to shelter all the dogs and cats housed in the primary enclosure at one time;
(viii) Provide all the dogs and cats with easy and convenient access to clean food and water;
(ix) Enable all surfaces in contact with the dogs and cats to be readily cleaned and sanitized in accordance with § 3.11(b) of this subpart, or be replaceable when worn or soiled;
(x) Have floors that are constructed in a manner that protects the dogs' and cats' feet and legs from injury, and that, if of mesh or slatted construction, do not allow the dogs' and cats' feet to pass through any openings in the floor;
(xi) Provide sufficient space to allow each dog and cat to turn about freely, to stand, sit, and lie in a comfortable, normal position, and to walk in a normal manner; and
(xii) If the suspended floor of a primary enclosure is constructed of metal strands, the strands must either be greater than
1/8
of an inch in diameter (9 gauge) or coated with a material such as plastic or fiberglass. The suspended floor of any primary enclosure must be strong enough so that the floor does not sag or bend between the structural supports.
(b)
Additional requirements for cats
—(1)
Space.
Each cat, including weaned kittens, that is housed in any primary enclosure must be provided minimum vertical space and floor space as follows:
(i) Each primary enclosure housing cats must be at least 24 in. high (60.96 cm);
(ii) Cats up to and including 8.8 lbs (4 kg) must be provided with at least 3.0 ft
2
(0.28 m
2
);
(iii) Cats over 8.8 lbs (4 kg) must be provided with at least 4.0 ft
2
(0.37 m
2
);
(iv) Each queen with nursing kittens must be provided with an additional amount of floor space, based on her breed and behavioral characteristics, and in accordance with generally accepted husbandry practices. If the additional amount of floor space for each nursing kitten is equivalent to less than 5 percent of the minimum requirement for the queen, such housing must be approved by the attending veterinarian in the case of a research facility, and, in the case of dealers and exhibitors, such housing must be approved by the Administrator; and
(v) The minimum floor space required by this section is exclusive of any food or water pans. The litter pan may be considered part of the floor space if properly cleaned and sanitized.
(2)
Compatibility.
All cats housed in the same primary enclosure must be compatible, as determined by observation. Not more than 12 adult nonconditioned cats may be housed in the same primary enclosure. Queens in heat may not be housed in the same primary enclosure with sexually mature males, except for breeding. Except when maintained in breeding colonies, queens with litters may not be housed in the same primary enclosure with other adult cats, and kittens under 4 months of age may not be housed in the same primary enclosure with adult cats, other than the dam or foster dam. Cats with a vicious or aggressive disposition must be housed separately.
(3)
Litter.
In all primary enclosures, a receptacle containing sufficient clean litter must be provided to contain excreta and body wastes.
(4)
Resting surfaces.
Each primary enclosure housing cats must contain a resting surface or surfaces that, in the aggregate, are large enough to hold all the occupants of the primary enclosure at the same time comfortably. The resting surfaces must be elevated, impervious to moisture, and be able to be easily cleaned and sanitized, or easily replaced when soiled or worn. Low resting surfaces that do not allow the space under them to be comfortably occupied by the animal will be counted as part of the floor space.
(5)
Cats in mobile or traveling shows or acts.
Cats that are part of a mobile or traveling show or act may be kept, while the show or act is traveling from one temporary location to another, in transport containers that comply with all requirements of § 3.15 other than the marking requirements in § 3.15(a)(6). When the show or act is not traveling, the cats must be placed in primary enclosures that meet the minimum requirements of this section.
(c)
Additional requirements for dogs
—(1)
Space.
(i) Each dog housed in a primary enclosure (including weaned puppies) must be provided a minimum amount of floor space, calculated as follows: Find the mathematical square of the sum of the length of the dog in inches (measured from the tip of its nose to the base of its tail) plus 6 inches; then divide the product by 144. The calculation is: (length of dog in inches + 6) × (length of dog in inches + 6) = required floor space in square inches. Required floor space in inches/144 = required floor space in square feet.
(ii) Each bitch with nursing puppies must be provided with an additional amount of floor space, based on her breed and behavioral characteristics, and in accordance with generally accepted husbandry practices as determined by the attending veterinarian. If the additional amount of floor space for each nursing puppy is less than 5 percent of the minimum requirement for the bitch, such housing must be approved by the attending veterinarian in the case of a research facility, and, in the case of dealers and exhibitors, such housing must be approved by the Administrator.
(iii) The interior height of a primary enclosure must be at least 6 inches higher than the head of the tallest dog in the enclosure when it is in a normal standing position:
Provided
That, prior to February 15, 1994, each dog must be able to stand in a comfortable normal position.
(2)
Compatibility.
All dogs housed in the same primary enclosure must be compatible, as determined by observation. Not more than 12 adult nonconditioned dogs may be housed in the same primary enclosure. Bitches in heat may not be housed in the same primary enclosure with sexually mature males, except for breeding. Except when maintained in breeding colonies, bitches with litters may not be housed in the same primary enclosure with other adult dogs, and puppies under 4 months of age may not be housed in the same primary enclosure with adult dogs, other than the dam or foster dam. Dogs with a vicious or aggressive disposition must be housed separately.
(3)
Dogs in mobile or traveling shows or acts.
Dogs that are part of a mobile or traveling show or act may be kept, while the show or act is traveling from one temporary location to another, in transport containers that comply with all requirements of § 3.15 other than the
marking requirements in § 3.15(a)(6). When the show or act is not traveling, the dogs must be placed in primary enclosures that meet the minimum requirements of this section.
(4)
Prohibited means of primary enclosure.
Permanent tethering of dogs is prohibited for use as primary enclosure. Temporary tethering of dogs is prohibited for use as primary enclosure unless approval is obtained from APHIS.
(d) Innovative primary enclosures not precisely meeting the floor area and height requirements provided in paragraphs (b)(1) and (c)(1) of this section, but that provide the dogs or cats with a sufficient volume of space and the opportunity to express species-typical behavior, may be used at research facilities when approved by the Committee, and by dealers and exhibitors when approved by the Administrator.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0093)
[56 FR 6486, Feb. 15, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 43275, Aug. 13, 1997; 63 FR 3023, Jan. 21, 1998; 63 FR 37482, July 13, 1998; 83 FR 25555, June 4, 2018; 85 FR 28798, May 13, 2020]

# Animal Health and Husbandry Standards
§ 3.7
Compatible grouping.
Dogs and cats that are housed in the same primary enclosure must be compatible, with the following restrictions:
(a) Females in heat (estrus) may not be housed in the same primary enclosure with males, except for breeding purposes;
(b) Any dog or cat exhibiting a vicious or overly aggressive disposition must be housed separately;
(c) Puppies or kittens 4 months of age or less may not be housed in the same primary enclosure with adult dogs or cats other than their dams or foster dams, except when permanently maintained in breeding colonies;
(d) Dogs or cats may not be housed in the same primary enclosure with any other species of animals, unless they are compatible; and
(e) Dogs and cats that have or are suspected of having a contagious disease must be isolated from healthy animals in the colony, as directed by the attending veterinarian. When an entire group or room of dogs and cats is known to have or believed to be exposed to an infectious agent, the group may be kept intact during the process of diagnosis, treatment, and control.
§ 3.8
Exercise for dogs.
Dealers, exhibitors, and research facilities must develop, document, and follow an appropriate plan to provide dogs with the opportunity for exercise. In addition, the plan must be approved by the attending veterinarian. The plan must include written standard procedures to be followed in providing the opportunity for exercise. The plan must be made available to APHIS upon request, and, in the case of research facilities, to officials of any pertinent funding Federal agency. The plan, at a minimum, must comply with each of the following:
(a)
Dogs housed individually.
Dogs over 12 weeks of age, except bitches with litters, housed, held, or maintained by any dealer, exhibitor, or research facility, including Federal research facilities, must be provided the opportunity for exercise regularly if they are kept individually in cages, pens, or runs that provide less than two times the required floor space for that dog, as indicated by § 3.6(c)(1) of this subpart.
(b)
Dogs housed in groups.
Dogs over 12 weeks of age housed, held, or maintained in groups by any dealer, exhibitor, or research facility, including Federal research facilities, do not require additional opportunity for exercise regularly if they are maintained in cages, pens, or runs that provide in total at least 100 percent of the required space for each dog if maintained separately. Such animals may be maintained in compatible groups, unless:
(1) Housing in compatible groups is not in accordance with a research proposal and the proposal has been approved by the research facility Committee;
(2) In the opinion of the attending veterinarian, such housing would adversely affect the health or well-being of the dog(s); or
(3) Any dog exhibits aggressive or vicious behavior.
(c)
Methods and period of providing exercise opportunity.
(1) The frequency,
method, and duration of the opportunity for exercise shall be determined by the attending veterinarian and, at research facilities, in consultation with and approval by the Committee.
(2) Dealers, exhibitors, and research facilities, in developing their plan, should consider providing positive physical contact with humans that encourages exercise through play or other similar activities. If a dog is housed, held, or maintained at a facility without sensory contact with another dog, it must be provided with positive physical contact with humans at least daily.
(3) The opportunity for exercise may be provided in a number of ways, such as:
(i) Group housing in cages, pens or runs that provide at least 100 percent of the required space for each dog if maintained separately under the minimum floor space requirements of § 3.6(c)(1) of this subpart;
(ii) Maintaining individually housed dogs in cages, pens, or runs that provide at least twice the minimum floor space required by § 3.6(c)(1) of this subpart;
(iii) Providing access to a run or open area at the frequency and duration prescribed by the attending veterinarian; or
(iv) Other similar activities.
(4) Forced exercise methods or devices such as swimming, treadmills, or carousel-type devices are unacceptable for meeting the exercise requirements of this section.
(d)
Exemptions.
(1) If, in the opinion of the attending veterinarian, it is inappropriate for certain dogs to exercise because of their health, condition, or well-being, the dealer, exhibitor, or research facility may be exempted from meeting the requirements of this section for those dogs. Such exemption must be documented by the attending veterinarian and, unless the basis for exemption is a permanent condition, must be reviewed at least every 30 days by the attending veterinarian.
(2) A research facility may be exempted from the requirements of this section if the principal investigator determines for scientific reasons set forth in the research proposal that it is inappropriate for certain dogs to exercise. Such exemption must be documented in the Committee-approved proposal and must be reviewed at appropriate intervals as determined by the Committee, but not less than annually.
(3) Records of any exemptions must be maintained and made available to USDA officials or any pertinent funding Federal agency upon request.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0093)
§ 3.9
Feeding.
(a) Dogs and cats must be fed at least once each day, except as otherwise might be required to provide adequate veterinary care. The food must be uncontaminated, wholesome, palatable, and of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to maintain the normal condition and weight of the animal. The diet must be appropriate for the individual animal's age and condition.
(b) Food receptacles must be used for dogs and cats, must be readily accessible to all dogs and cats, and must be located so as to minimize contamination by excreta and pests, and be protected from rain and snow. Feeding pans must either be made of a durable material that can be easily cleaned and sanitized or be disposable. If the food receptacles are not disposable, they must be kept clean and must be sanitized in accordance with § 3.11(b) of this subpart. Sanitization is achieved by using one of the methods described in § 3.11(b)(3) of this subpart. If the food receptacles are disposable, they must be discarded after one use. Self-feeders may be used for the feeding of dry food. If self-feeders are used, they must be kept clean and must be sanitized in accordance with § 3.11(b) of this subpart. Measures must be taken to ensure that there is no molding, deterioration, and caking of feed.
§ 3.10
Watering.
(a) Potable water must be continuously available to the dogs, unless restricted by the attending veterinarian or except as provided in § 3.17(a).
(b) If potable water is not continuously available to the cats, it must be offered to the cats as often as necessary to ensure their health and well-being, but not less than twice daily for
at least 1 hour each time, unless restricted by the attending veterinarian.
(c) Water receptacles must be kept clean and sanitized in accordance with § 3.11(b) and before being used to water a different dog or cat or a different social grouping of dogs or cats.
[85 FR 28798, May 13, 2020]
§ 3.11
Cleaning, sanitization, housekeeping, and pest control.
(a)
Cleaning of primary enclosures.
Excreta and food waste must be removed from primary enclosures daily, and from under primary enclosures as often as necessary to prevent an excessive accumulation of feces and food waste, to prevent soiling of the dogs or cats contained in the primary enclosures, and to reduce disease hazards, insects, pests and odors. When steam or water is used to clean the primary enclosure, whether by hosing, flushing, or other methods, dogs and cats must be removed, unless the enclosure is large enough to ensure the animals would not be harmed, wetted, or distressed in the process. Standing water must be removed from the primary enclosure and animals in other primary enclosures must be protected from being contaminated with water and other wastes during the cleaning. The pans under primary enclosures with grill-type floors and the ground areas under raised runs with mesh or slatted floors must be cleaned as often as necessary to prevent accumulation of feces and food waste and to reduce disease hazards pests, insects and odors.
(b)
Sanitization of primary enclosures and food and water receptacles.
(1) Used primary enclosures and food and water receptacles must be cleaned and sanitized in accordance with this section before they can be used to house, feed, or water another dog or cat, or social grouping of dogs or cats.
(2) Used primary enclosures and food and water receptacles for dogs and cats must be sanitized at least once every 2 weeks using one of the methods prescribed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, and more often if necessary to prevent an accumulation of dirt, debris, food waste, excreta, and other disease hazards.
(3) Hard surfaces of primary enclosures and food and water receptacles must be sanitized using one of the following methods:
(i) Live steam under pressure;
(ii) Washing with hot water (at least 180 °F (82.2 °C)) and soap or detergent, as with a mechanical cage washer; or
(iii) Washing all soiled surfaces with appropriate detergent solutions and disinfectants, or by using a combination detergent/disinfectant product that accomplishes the same purpose, with a thorough cleaning of the surfaces to remove organic material, so as to remove all organic material and mineral buildup, and to provide sanitization followed by a clean water rinse.
(4) Pens, runs, and outdoor housing areas using material that cannot be sanitized using the methods provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, such as gravel, sand, grass, earth, or absorbent bedding, must be sanitized by removing the contaminated material as necessary to prevent odors, diseases, pests, insects, and vermin infestation.
(c)
Housekeeping for premises.
Premises where housing facilities are located, including buildings and surrounding grounds, must be kept clean and in good repair to protect the animals from injury, to facilitate the husbandry practices required in this subpart, and to reduce or eliminate breeding and living areas for rodents and other pests and vermin. Premises must be kept free of accumulations of trash, junk, waste products, and discarded matter. Weeds, grasses, and bushes must be controlled so as to facilitate cleaning of the premises and pest control, and to protect the health and well-being of the animals.
(d)
Pest control.
An effective program for the control of insects, external parasites affecting dogs and cats, and birds and mammals that are pests, must be established and maintained so as to promote the health and well-being of the animals and reduce contamination by pests in animal areas.
[56 FR 6486, Feb. 15, 1991, as amended at 63 FR 3023, Jan. 21, 1998]
§ 3.12
Employees.
Each person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3) maintaining dogs and cats must have enough employees to carry out the level of husbandry practices and
care required in this subpart. The employees who provide for husbandry and care, or handle animals, must be supervised by an individual who has the knowledge, background, and experience in proper husbandry and care of dogs and cats to supervise others. The employer must be certain that the supervisor and other employees can perform to these standards.
§ 3.13
Veterinary care for dogs.
(a) Each dealer, exhibitor, and research facility must follow an appropriate program of veterinary care for dogs that is developed, documented in writing, and signed by the attending veterinarian. Dealers, exhibitors, and research facilities must keep and maintain the written program and make it available for APHIS inspection. The written program of veterinary care must address the requirements for adequate veterinary care for every dealer and exhibitor in § 2.40 of this subchapter and every research facility in § 2.33 of this subchapter, and must also include:
(1) Regularly scheduled visits, not less than once every 12 months, by the attending veterinarian to all premises where animals are kept, to assess and ensure the adequacy of veterinary care and other aspects of animal care and use;
(2) A complete physical examination from head to tail of each dog by the attending veterinarian not less than once every 12 months;
(3) Vaccinations for contagious and/or deadly diseases of dogs (including rabies, parvovirus and distemper) and sampling and treatment of parasites and other pests (including fleas, worms, coccidia, giardia, and heartworm) in accordance with a schedule approved by the attending veterinarian, unless otherwise required by a research protocol approved by the Committee at research facilities; and
(4) Preventative care and treatment to ensure healthy and unmatted hair coats, properly trimmed nails, and clean and healthy eyes, ears, skin, and teeth, unless otherwise required by a research protocol approved by the Committee at research facilities.
(b) Dealers, exhibitors, and research facilities must keep copies of medical records for dogs and make the records available for APHIS inspection. These records must include:
(1) The identity of the animal, including identifying marks, tattoos, or tags on the animal and the animal's breed, sex, and age;
Provided,
however, that routine husbandry, such as vaccinations, preventive medical procedures, or treatments, performed on all animals in a group (or herd), may be kept on a single record;
(2) If a problem is identified (such as a disease, injury, or illness), the date and a description of the problem, examination findings, test results, plan for treatment and care, and treatment procedures performed, when appropriate;
(3) The names of all vaccines and treatments administered and the dates of administration; and
(4) The dates and findings/results of all screening, routine, or other required or recommended test or examination.
(c) Medical records for dogs shall be kept for the following periods:
(1) The medical records for dogs shall be kept and maintained by the research facility for the duration of the research activity and for an additional 3 years after the dog is euthanized or disposed of, and for any period in excess of 3 years as necessary to comply with any applicable Federal, State, or local law.
(2) The medical records for dogs shall be kept and maintained by the dealer or exhibitor for at least 1 year after the dog is euthanized or disposed of and for any period in excess of 1 year as necessary to comply with any applicable Federal, State, or local law.
(3) Whenever the Administrator notifies a research facility, dealer, or exhibitor in writing that specified records shall be retained pending completion of an investigation or proceeding under the Act, the research facility, dealer, or exhibitor shall hold those records until their disposition is authorized by the Administrator.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0470)
[85 FR 28798, May 13, 2020]

# Transportation Standards
§ 3.14
Consignments to carriers and intermediate handlers.
(a) Carriers and intermediate handlers must not accept a dog or cat for transport in commerce more than 4 hours before the scheduled departure time of the primary conveyance on which the animal is to be transported. However, a carrier or intermediate handler may agree with anyone consigning a dog or cat to extend this time by up to 2 hours.
(b) Carriers and intermediate handlers must not accept a dog or cat for transport in commerce unless they are provided with the name, address, and telephone number of the consignee.
(c) Carriers and intermediate handlers must not accept a dog or cat for transport in commerce unless the consignor certifies in writing to the carrier or intermediate handler that the dog or cat was offered food and water during the 4 hours before delivery to the carrier or intermediate handler. The certification must be securely attached to the outside of the primary enclosure in a manner that makes it easily noticed and read. Instructions for no food or water are not acceptable unless directed by the attending veterinarian. Instructions must be in compliance with § 3.17. The certification must include the following information for each dog and cat:
(1) The consignor's name and address;
(2) The tag number or tattoo assigned to each dog or cat under §§ 2.38 and 2.50 of this chapter;
(3) The time and date the animal was last fed and watered and the specific instructions for the next feeding(s) and watering(s) for a 24-hour period; and
(4) The consignor's signature and the date and time the certification was signed.
(d) Carriers and intermediate handlers must not accept a dog or cat for transport in commerce in a primary enclosure unless the primary enclosure meets the requirements of § 3.15. A carrier or intermediate handler must not accept a dog or cat for transport if the primary enclosure is obviously defective or damaged and cannot reasonably be expected to safely and comfortably contain the dog or cat without causing suffering or injury.
(e) Carriers and intermediate handlers must not accept a dog or cat for transport in commerce unless their animal holding area meets the minimum temperature requirements provided in §§ 3.19 and 3.20, or unless the consignor provides them with a certificate signed by a veterinarian and dated no more than 10 days before delivery of the animal to the carrier or intermediate handler for transport in commerce, certifying that the animal is acclimated to temperatures lower than those required in §§ 3.19 and 3.20. Even if the carrier or intermediate handler receives this certification, the temperatures the dog or cat is exposed to while in a terminal facility must not be lower than 45 °F (2.2 °C) for more than 4 consecutive hours when dogs or cats are present, as set forth in § 3.19, nor lower than 45 °F (2.2 °C) for more than 45 minutes, as set forth in § 3.20, when moving dogs or cats to or from terminal facilities or primary conveyances. A copy of the certification must accompany the dog or cat to its destination and must include the following information:
(1) The consignor's name and address;
(2) The tag number or tattoo assigned to each dog or cat under §§ 2.38 and 2.50 of this chapter;
(3) A statement by a veterinarian, dated no more than 10 days before delivery, that to the best of his or her knowledge, each of the dogs or cats contained in the primary enclosure is acclimated to air temperatures lower than 50 °F (10 °C); but not lower than a minimum temperature, specified on a certificate, that the attending veterinarian has determined is based on generally accepted temperature standards for the age, condition, and breed of the dog or cat; and
(4) The signature of the veterinarian and the date the certification was signed.
(f) When a primary enclosure containing a dog or cat has arrived at the animal holding area at a terminal facility after transport, the carrier or intermediate handler must attempt to notify the consignee upon arrival and at least once in every 6-hour period thereafter. The time, date, and method
of all attempted notifications and the actual notification of the consignee, and the name of the person who notifies or attempts to notify the consignee must be written either on the carrier's or intermediate handler's copy of the shipping document or on the copy that accompanies the primary enclosure. If the consignee cannot be notified within 24 hours after the dog or cat has arrived at the terminal facility, the carrier or intermediate handler must return the animal to the consignor or to whomever the consignor designates. If the consignee is notified of the arrival and does not accept delivery of the dog or cat within 48 hours after arrival of the dog or cat, the carrier or intermediate handler must return the animal to the consignor or to whomever the consignor designates. The carrier or intermediate handler must continue to provide proper care, feeding, and housing to the dog or cat, and maintain the dog or cat in accordance with generally accepted professional and husbandry practices until the consignee accepts delivery of the dog or cat or until it is returned to the consignor or to whomever the consignor designates. The carrier or intermediate handler must obligate the consignor to reimburse the carrier or intermediate handler for the cost of return transportation and care.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0093)
[56 FR 6486, Feb. 15, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 28798, 28799, May 13, 2020]
§ 3.15
Primary enclosures used to transport live dogs and cats.
Any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3) must not transport or deliver for transport in commerce a dog or cat unless the following requirements are met:
(a)
Construction of primary enclosures.
The dog or cat must be contained in a primary enclosure such as a compartment, transport cage, carton, or crate. Primary enclosures used to transport dogs and cats must be constructed so that:
(1) The primary enclosure is strong enough to contain the dogs and cats securely and comfortably and to withstand the normal rigors of transportation;
(2) The interior of the primary enclosure has no sharp points or edges and no protrusions that could injure the animal contained in it;
(3) The dog or cat is at all times securely contained within the enclosure and cannot put any part of its body outside the enclosure in a way that could result in injury to itself, to handlers, or to persons or animals nearby;
(4) The dog or cat can be easily and quickly removed from the enclosure in an emergency;
(5) Unless the enclosure is permanently affixed to the conveyance, adequate devices such as handles or handholds are provided on its exterior, and enable the enclosure to be lifted without tilting it, and ensure that anyone handling the enclosure will not come into physical contact with the animal contained inside;
(6) Unless the enclosure is permanently affixed to the conveyance, it is clearly marked on top and on one or more sides with the words “Live Animals,” in letters at least 1 inch (2.5 cm.) high, and with arrows or other markings to indicate the correct upright position of the primary enclosure;
(7) Any material, treatment, paint, preservative, or other chemical used in or on the enclosure is nontoxic to the animal and not harmful to the health or well-being of the animal;
(8) Proper ventilation is provided to the animal in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section; and
(9) The primary enclosure has a solid, leak-proof bottom or a removable, leak-proof collection tray under a slatted or mesh floor that prevents seepage of waste products, such as excreta and body fluids, outside of the enclosure. If a slatted or mesh floor is used in the enclosure, it must be designed and constructed so that the animal cannot put any part of its body between the slats or through the holes in the mesh. Unless the dogs and cats are on raised slatted floors or raised floors made of mesh, the primary enclosure must contain enough previously unused litter to absorb and cover excreta. The litter
must be of a suitably absorbent material that is safe and nontoxic to the dogs and cats.
(b)
Cleaning of primary enclosures.
A primary enclosure used to hold or transport dogs or cats in commerce must be cleaned and sanitized before each use in accordance with the methods provided in § 3.11(b)(3) of this subpart. If the dogs or cats are in transit for more than 24 hours, the enclosures must be cleaned and any litter replaced, or other methods, such as moving the animals to another enclosure, must be utilized to prevent the soiling of the dogs or cats by body wastes. If it becomes necessary to remove the dog or cat from the enclosure in order to clean, or to move the dog or cat to another enclosure, this procedure must be completed in a way that safeguards the dog or cat from injury and prevents escape.
(c)
Ventilation.
(1) Unless the primary enclosure is permanently affixed to the conveyance, there must be:
(i) Ventilation openings located on two opposing walls of the primary enclosure and the openings must be at least 16 percent of the surface area of each such wall, and the total combined surface area of the ventilation openings must be at least 14 percent of the total combined surface area of all the walls of the primary enclosure; or
(ii) Ventilation openings on three walls of the primary enclosure, and the openings on each of the two opposing walls must be at least 8 percent of the total surface area of the two walls, and the ventilation openings on the third wall of the primary enclosure must be at least 50 percent of the total surface area of that wall, and the total combined surface area of the ventilation openings must be at least 14 percent of the total combined surface area of all the walls of the primary enclosure; or
(iii) Ventilation openings located on all four walls of the primary enclosure and the ventilation openings on each of the four walls must be at least 8 percent of the total surface area of each such wall, and the total combined surface area of the openings must be at least 14 percent of total combined surface area of all the walls of the primary enclosure; and
(iv) At least one-third of the ventilation area must be located on the upper half of the primary enclosure.
(2) Unless the primary enclosure is permanently affixed to the conveyance, projecting rims or similar devices must be located on the exterior of each enclosure wall having a ventilation opening, in order to prevent obstruction of the openings. The projecting rims or similar devices must be large enough to provide a minimum air circulation space of 0.75 in. (1.9 cm) between the primary enclosure and anything the enclosure is placed against.
(3) If a primary enclosure is permanently affixed to the primary conveyance so that there is only a front ventilation opening for the enclosure, the primary enclosure must be affixed to the primary conveyance in such a way that the front ventilation opening cannot be blocked, and the front ventilation opening must open directly to an unobstructed aisle or passageway inside the conveyance. The ventilation opening must be at least 90 percent of the total area of the front wall of the enclosure, and must be covered with bars, wire mesh, or smooth expanded metal having air spaces.
(d)
Compatibility.
(1) Live dogs or cats transported in the same primary enclosure must be of the same species and be maintained in compatible groups, except that dogs and cats that are private pets, are of comparable size, and are compatible, may be transported in the same primary enclosure.
(2) Puppies or kittens 4 months of age or less may not be transported in the same primary enclosure with adult dogs or cats other than their dams.
(3) Dogs or cats that are overly aggressive or exhibit a vicious disposition must be transported individually in a primary enclosure.
(4) Any female dog or cat in heat (estrus) may not be transported in the same primary enclosure with any male dog or cat.
(e)
Space and placement.
(1) Primary enclosures used to transport live dogs and cats must be large enough to ensure that each animal contained in the primary enclosure has enough space to turn about normally while standing, to stand and sit erect, and to lie in a natural position.
(2) Primary enclosures used to transport dogs and cats must be positioned in the primary conveyance so as to provide protection from the elements.
(f)
Transportation by air.
(1) No more than one live dog or cat, 6 months of age or older, may be transported in the same primary enclosure when shipped via air carrier.
(2) No more than one live puppy, 8 weeks to 6 months of age, and weighing over 20 lbs (9 kg), may be transported in a primary enclosure when shipped via air carrier.
(3) No more than two live puppies or kittens, 8 weeks to 6 months of age, that are of comparable size, and weighing 20 lbs (9 kg) or less each, may be transported in the same primary enclosure when shipped via air carrier.
(4) Weaned live puppies or kittens less than 8 weeks of age and of comparable size, or puppies or kittens that are less than 8 weeks of age that are littermates and are accompanied by their dam, may be transported in the same primary enclosure when shipped to research facilities, including Federal research facilities.
(g)
Transportation by surface vehicle or privately owned aircraft.
(1) No more than four live dogs or cats, 8 weeks of age or older, that are of comparable size, may be transported in the same primary enclosure when shipped by surface vehicle (including ground and water transportation) or privately owned aircraft, and only if all other requirements of this section are met.
(2) Weaned live puppies or kittens less than 8 weeks of age and of comparable size, or puppies or kittens that are less than 8 weeks of age that are littermates and are accompanied by their dam, may be transported in the same primary enclosure when shipped to research facilities, including Federal research facilities, and only if all other requirements in this section are met.
(h)
Accompanying documents and records.
Shipping documents that must accompany shipments of dogs and cats may be held by the operator of the primary conveyance, for surface transportation only, or must be securely attached in a readily accessible manner to the outside of any primary enclosure that is part of the shipment, in a manner that allows them to be detached for examination and securely reattached, such as in a pocket or sleeve. Instructions for administration of drugs, medication, and other special care must be attached to each primary enclosure in a manner that makes them easy to notice, to detach for examination, and to reattach securely. Food and water instructions must be attached in accordance with § 3.14(c).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0093)
[56 FR 6486, Feb. 15, 1991, as amended at 63 FR 3023, Jan. 21, 1998. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 28798, 28799, May 13, 2020]
§ 3.16
Primary conveyances (motor vehicle, rail, air, and marine).
(a) The animal cargo space of primary conveyances used to transport dogs and cats must be designed, constructed, and maintained in a manner that at all times protects the health and well-being of the animals transported in them, ensures their safety and comfort, and prevents the entry of engine exhaust from the primary conveyance during transportation.
(b) The animal cargo space must have a supply of air that is sufficient for the normal breathing of all the animals being transported in it.
(c) Each primary enclosure containing dogs or cats must be positioned in the animal cargo space in a manner that provides protection from the elements and that allows each dog or cat enough air for normal breathing.
(d) During air transportation, dogs and cats must be held in cargo areas that are heated or cooled as necessary to maintain an ambient temperature and humidity that ensures the health and well-being of the dogs or cats. The cargo areas must be pressurized when the primary conveyance used for air transportation is not on the ground, unless flying under 8,000 ft. Dogs and cats must have adequate air for breathing at all times when being transported.
(e) During surface transportation, auxiliary ventilation, such as fans, blowers or air conditioning, must be used in any animal cargo space containing live dogs or cats when the ambient temperature within the animal cargo space reaches 85 °F (29.5 °C). Moreover, the ambient temperature
may not exceed 85 °F (29.5 °C) for a period of more than 4 hours; nor fall below 45 °F (7.2 °C) for a period of more than 4 hours. The preceding requirements are in addition to, not in place of, all other requirements pertaining to climatic conditions in parts 2 and 3 of this chapter.
(f) Primary enclosures must be positioned in the primary conveyance in a manner that allows the dogs and cats to be quickly and easily removed from the primary conveyance in an emergency.
(g) The interior of the animal cargo space must be kept clean.
(h) Live dogs and cats may not be transported with any material, substance (e.g., dry ice) or device in a manner that may reasonably be expected to harm the dogs and cats or cause inhumane conditions.
[56 FR 6486, Feb. 15, 1991, as amended at 63 FR 10498, 10499, Mar. 4, 1998. Redesignated at 85 FR 28798, May 13, 2020]
§ 3.17
Food and water requirements.
(a) Each dog and cat that is 16 weeks of age or more must be offered food at least once every 24 hours. Puppies and kittens less than 16 weeks of age must be offered food at least once every 12 hours. Each dog and cat must be offered potable water at least once every 12 hours. These time periods apply to dealers, exhibitors, research facilities. including Federal research facilities, who transport dogs and cats in their own primary conveyance, starting from the time the dog or cat was last offered food and potable water before transportation was begun. These time periods apply to carriers and intermediate handlers starting from the date and time stated on the certificate provided under § 3.14(c). Each dog and cat must be offered food and potable water within 4 hours before being transported in commerce. Consignors who are subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3) must certify that each dog and cat was offered food and potable water within the 4 hours preceding delivery of the dog or cat to a carrier or intermediate handler for transportation in commerce, and must certify the date and time the food and potable water was offered, in accordance with § 3.14(c).
(b) Any dealer, research facility, including a Federal research facility, or exhibitor offering any dog or cat to a carrier or intermediate handler for transportation in commerce must securely attach to the outside of the primary enclosure used for transporting the dog or cat, written instructions for the in-transit food and water requirements for a 24-hour period for the dogs and cats contained in the enclosure. The instructions must be attached in a manner that makes them easily noticed and read.
(c) Food and water receptacles must be securely attached inside the primary enclosure and placed so that the receptacles can be filled from outside the enclosure without opening the door. Food and water containers must be designed, constructed, and installed so that a dog or cat cannot leave the primary enclosure through the food or water opening.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0093)
[56 FR 6486, Feb. 15, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 28798, 28799, May 13, 2020]
§ 3.18
Care in transit.
(a)
Surface transportation (ground and water).
Any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations transporting dogs or cats in commerce must ensure that the operator of the conveyance, or a person accompanying the operator, observes the dogs or cats as often as circumstances allow, but not less than once every 4 hours, to make sure they have sufficient air for normal breathing, that the ambient temperature is within the limits provided in § 3.16(e), and that all applicable standards of this subpart are being complied with. The regulated person must ensure that the operator or person accompanying the operator determines whether any of the dogs or cats are in obvious physical distress and obtains any veterinary care needed for the dogs or cats at the closest available veterinary facility.
(b)
Air transportation.
During air transportation of dogs or cats, it is the responsibility of the carrier to observe the dogs or cats as frequently as circumstances allow, but not less than once every 4 hours if the animal cargo area is accessible during flight. If the
animal cargo area is not accessible during flight, the carrier must observe the dogs or cats whenever they are loaded and unloaded and whenever the animal cargo space is otherwise accessible to make sure they have sufficient air for normal breathing, that the animal cargo area meets the heating and cooling requirements of § 3.16(d), and that all other applicable standards of this subpart are being complied with. The carrier must determine whether any of the dogs or cats are in obvious physical distress, and arrange for any needed veterinary care as soon as possible.
(c) If a dog or cat is obviously ill, injured, or in physical distress, it must not be transported in commerce, except to receive veterinary care for the condition.
(d)
Removal during transportation in commerce prohibited.
Except during the cleaning of primary enclosures, as required in § 3.15(b), during transportation in commerce a dog or cat must not be removed from its primary enclosure, unless it is placed in another primary enclosure or facility that meets the requirements of § 3.6 or § 3.15.
(e) The transportation regulations contained in this subpart must be complied with until a consignee takes physical delivery of the dog or cat if the animal is consigned for transportation, or until the animal is returned to the consignor.
[56 FR 6486, Feb. 15, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 28798, 28799, May 13, 2020]
§ 3.19
Terminal facilities.
(a)
Placement.
Any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3) must not commingle shipments of dogs or cats with inanimate cargo in animal holding areas of terminal facilities.
(b)
Cleaning, sanitization, and pest control.
All animal holding areas of terminal facilities must be cleaned and sanitized in a manner prescribed in § 3.11(b)(3) of this subpart, as often as necessary to prevent an accumulation of debris or excreta and to minimize vermin infestation and disease hazards. Terminal facilities must follow an effective program in all animal holding areas for the control of insects, ectoparasites, and birds and mammals that are pests to dogs and cats.
(c)
Ventilation.
Ventilation must be provided in any animal holding area in a terminal facility containing dogs or cats, by means of windows, doors, vents, or air conditioning. The air must be circulated by fans, blowers, or air conditioning so as to minimize drafts, odors, and moisture condensation. Auxiliary ventilation, such as exhaust fans, vents, fans, blowers, or air conditioning must be used in any animal holding area containing dogs and cats, when the ambient temperature is 85 °F (29.5 °C) or higher
(d)
Temperature.
The ambient temperature in an animal holding area containing dogs or cats must not fall below 45 °F (7.2 °C) or rise above 85 °F (29.5 °C) for more than four consecutive hours at any time dogs or cats are present. The ambient temperature must be measured in the animal holding area by the carrier, intermediate handler, or a person transporting dogs or cats who is subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3), outside any primary enclosure containing a dog or cat at a point not more than 3 feet (0.91 m) away from an outside wall of the primary enclosure, and approximately midway up the side of the enclosure. The preceding requirements are in addition to, not in place of, all other requirements pertaining to climatic conditions in parts 2 and 3 of this chapter.
(e)
Shelter.
Any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3) holding a live dog or cat in an animal holding area of a terminal facility must provide the following:
(1)
Shelter from sunlight and extreme heat.
Shade must be provided that is sufficient to protect the dog or cat from the direct rays of the sun.
(2)
Shelter from rain or snow.
Sufficient protection must be provided to allow the dogs and cats to remain dry during rain, snow, and other precipitation.
(f)
Duration.
The length of time any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3) can hold dogs and cats in animal holding
areas of terminal facilities upon arrival is the same as that provided in § 3.14(f).
[56 FR 6486, Feb. 15, 1991, as amended at 63 FR 10499, Mar. 4, 1998. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 28798, 28799, May 13, 2020]
§ 3.20
Handling.
(a) Any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3) who moves (including loading and unloading) dogs or cats within, to, or from the animal holding area of a terminal facility or a primary conveyance must do so as quickly and efficiently as possible and must provide the following during movement of the dog or cat:
(1) Shelter from sunlight and extreme heat. Sufficient shade must be provided to protect the dog or cat from the direct rays of the sun. The dog or cat must not be exposed to an ambient air temperature above 85 °F (29.5 °C) for a period of more than 45 minutes while being moved to or from a primary conveyance or a terminal facility. The temperature must be measured in the manner provided in § 3.19(d). The preceding requirements are in addition to, not in place of, all other requirements pertaining to climatic conditions in parts 2 and 3 of this chapter.
(2)
Shelter from rain and snow.
Sufficient protection must be provided to allow the dogs and cats to remain dry during rain, snow, and other precipitation.
(3)
Shelter from cold temperatures.
Transporting devices on which live dogs or cats are placed to move them must be covered to protect the animals when the outdoor temperature falls below 50 °F (10 °C). The dogs or cats must not be exposed to an ambient temperature below 45 °F (7.2 °C) for a period of more than 45 minutes, unless they are accompanied by a certificate of acclimation to lower temperatures as provided in § 3.14(e). The temperature must be measured in the manner provided in § 3.19(d). The preceding requirements are in addition to, not in place of, all other requirements pertaining to climatic conditions in parts 2 and 3 of this chapter.
(b) Any person handling a primary enclosure containing a dog or cat must use care and must avoid causing physical harm or distress to the dog or cat.
(1) A primary enclosure containing a live dog or cat must not be placed on unattended conveyor belts, or on elevated conveyor belts, such as baggage claim conveyor belts and inclined conveyor ramps that lead to baggage claim areas, at any time; except that a primary enclosure may be placed on inclined conveyor ramps used to load and unload aircraft if an attendant is present at each end of the conveyor belt.
(2) A primary enclosure containing a dog or cat must not be tossed, dropped, or needlessly tilted, and must not be stacked in a manner that may reasonably be expected to result in its falling. It must be handled and positioned in the manner that written instructions and arrows on the outside of the primary enclosure indicate.
(c) This section applies to movement of a dog or cat from primary conveyance to primary conveyance, within a primary conveyance or terminal facility, and to or from a terminal facility or a primary conveyance.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0093)
[56 FR 6486, Feb. 15, 1991, as amended at 63 FR 10499, Mar. 4, 1998. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 28798, 28799, May 13, 2020]

# Subpart B—Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment, and Transportation of Guinea Pigs and Hamsters

# Facilities and Operating Standards
§ 3.25
Facilities, general.
(a)
Structural strength.
Indoor and outdoor housing facilities for guinea pigs or hamsters shall be structurally sound and shall be maintained in good repair, to protect the animals from injury, to contain the animals, and to restrict the entrance of other animals.
(b)
Water and electric power.
Reliable and adequate electric power, if required to comply with other provisions of this subpart, and adequate potable water shall be available.
(c)
Storage.
Supplies of food and bedding shall be stored in facilities which adequately protect such supplies
against spoilage or deterioration and infestation or contamination by vermin. Food supplies shall be stored in containers with tightly fitting lids or covers or in the original containers as received from the commercial sources of supply. Refrigeration shall be provided for supplies of perishable food.
(d)
Waste disposal.
Provisions shall be made for the removal and disposal of animal and food wastes, bedding, dead animals, and debris. Disposal facilities shall be so provided and operated as to minimize vermin infestation, odors, and disease hazards.
(e)
Washroom and sinks.
Facilities, such as washrooms, basins, or sinks, shall be provided to maintain cleanliness among animal caretakers.
[32 FR 3273, Feb. 24, 1967, as amended at 44 FR 63492, Nov. 2, 1979]
§ 3.26
Facilities, indoor.
(a)
Heating.
Indoor housing facilities for guinea pigs or hamsters shall be sufficiently heated when necessary to protect the animals from the cold, and to provide for their health and comfort. The ambient temperature shall not be allowed to fall below 60 °F. nor to exceed 85 °F.
(b)
Ventilation.
Indoor housing facilities for guinea pigs or hamsters shall be adequately ventilated to provide for the health and comfort of the animals at all times. Such facilities shall be provided with fresh air either by means of windows, doors, vents, or air conditioning, and shall be ventilated so as to minimize drafts, odors, and moisture condensation. The ambient temperature shall not be allowed to rise above 85 °F.
(c)
Lighting.
Indoor housing facilities for guinea pigs or hamsters shall have ample light, by natural or artificial means, or both, of good quality and well distributed. Such lighting shall provide uniformly distributed illumination of sufficient light intensity to permit routine inspection and cleaning during the entire working period. Primary enclosures shall be so placed as to protect the guinea pigs or hamsters from excessive illumination.
(d)
Interior surfaces.
The interior building surfaces of indoor housing facilities shall be constructed and maintained so that they are substantially impervious to moisture and may be readily sanitized.
§ 3.27
Facilities, outdoor.
(a) Hamsters shall not be housed in outdoor facilities.
(b) Guinea pigs shall not be housed in outdoor facilities unless such facilities are located in an appropriate climate and prior approval for such outdoor housing is obtained from the Deputy Administrator.
§ 3.28
Primary enclosures.
All primary enclosures for guinea pigs and hamsters shall conform to the following requirements:
(a)
General.
(1) Primary enclosures shall be structurally sound and maintained in good repair to protect the guinea pigs and hamsters from injury. Such enclosures, including their racks, shelving and other accessories, shall be constructed of smooth material substantially impervious to liquids and moisture.
(2) Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so that the guinea pigs or hamsters contained therein have convenient access to clean food and water as required in this subpart.
(3) Primary enclosures having a solid floor shall be provided with clean bedding material.
(4) Primary enclosures equipped with mesh or wire floors shall be so constructed as to allow feces to pass through the spaces of the mesh or wire:
Provided, however,
That such floors shall be constructed so as to protect the animals' feet and legs from injury.
(b)
Space requirements for primary enclosures acquired before August 15, 1990
—(1)
Guinea pigs and hamsters.
Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so as to provide sufficient space for each animal contained therein to make normal postural adjustments with adequate freedom of movement.
(2)
Guinea pigs.
In addition to the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the following space requirements are applicable to primary enclosures for guinea pigs:
(i) The interior height of any primary enclosure used to confine guinea pigs shall be at least 6
1/2
inches.
(ii) Each guinea pig housed in a primary enclosure shall be provided a minimum amount of floor space in accordance with the following table:
Weight or stage of maturity
Minimum space per guinea pig (square inches)
Weaning to 350 grams
60
350 grams or more
90
Breeders
180
(3)
Hamsters.
In addition to the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the following space requirements are applicable to primary enclosures for hamsters:
(i) The interior height of any primary enclosure used to confine hamsters shall be at least 5
1/2
inches, except that in the case of dwarf hamsters, such interior height shall be at least 5 inches.
(ii) A nursing female hamster, together with her litter, shall be housed in a primary enclosure which contains no other hamsters and which provides at least 121 square inches of floor space:
Provided, however,
That in the case of dwarf hamsters such floor space shall be at least 25 square inches.
(iii) The minimum amount of floor space per individual hamster and the maximum number of hamsters allowed in a single primary enclosure, except as provided for nursing females in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, shall be in accordance with the following table:
Age
Minimum space per hamster (square inches)
Dwarf
Other
Maximum population per enclosure
Weaning to 5 wks
5.0
10.0
20
5 to 10 wks
7.5
12.5
16
10 wks. or more
9
15.0
13
(c)
Space requirements for primary enclosures acquired on or after August 15, 1990
—(1)
Guinea pigs.
(i) Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so as to provide sufficient space for each guinea pig contained therein to make normal postural adjustments with adequate freedom of movement.
(ii) The interior height of any primary enclosure used to confine guinea pigs shall be at least 7 inches (17.78 cm).
(iii) Each guinea pig shall be provided a minimum amount of floor space in any primary enclosure as follows:
Weight or stage of maturity
Minimum floor space
in
2
cm
2
Weaning to 350 grams
60
387.12
350 grams
101
651.65
Nursing females with their litters
101
651.65
(2)
Hamsters.
(i) Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so as to provide sufficient space for each hamster contained therein to make normal postural adjustments with adequate freedom of movement.
(ii) The interior height of any primary enclosure used to confine hamsters shall be at least 6 inches (15.24 cm).
(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section, each hamster shall be provided a minimum amount of floor space in any primary enclosure as follows:
Weight
g
ozs
Minimum floor space per hamster
in
2
cm
2
60
2.1
10
64.52
60 to 80
2.1-2.8
13
83.88
80 to 100
2.8-3.5
16
103.23
100
3.5
19
122.59
(iv) A nursing female hamster, together with her litter, shall be housed in a primary enclosure that contains no other hamsters and that provides at least 121 square inches of floor space:
Provided, however,
That in the case of nursing female dwarf hamsters such floor space shall be at least 25 square inches.
(3) Innovative primary enclosures that do not precisely meet the space requirements of paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section, but that do provide guinea pigs or hamsters with a sufficient volume of space and the opportunity to express species-typical behavior, may be used at research facilities when approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee, and
by dealers and exhibitors when approved by the Administrator.
[32 FR 3273, Feb. 24, 1967, as amended at 55 FR 28882, July 16, 1990]

# Animal Health and Husbandry Standards
§ 3.29
Feeding.
(a) Guinea pigs and hamsters shall be fed each day except as otherwise might be required to provide adequate veterinary care. The food shall be free from contamination, wholesome, palatable and of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements for the condition and size of the guinea pig or hamster.
(b) Food comprising the basic diet shall be at least equivalent in quality and content to pelleted rations produced commercially and commonly available from feed suppliers.
(c) The basic diet of guinea pigs and hamsters may be supplemented with good quality fruits or vegetables consistent with their individual dietary requirements.
(d) Food receptacles, if used, shall be accessible to all guinea pigs or hamsters in a primary enclosure and shall be located so as to minimize contamination by excreta. All food receptacles shall be kept clean and shall be sanitized at least once every 2 weeks. If self-feeders are used for the feeding of pelleted feed, measures must be taken to prevent molding, deterioration or caking of the feed. Hamsters may be fed pelleted feed on the floor of a primary enclosure.
(e) Fruit or vegetable food supplements may be placed upon the bedding within the primary enclosure:
Provided, however,
That the uneaten portion of such supplements and any bedding soiled as a result of such feeding practices shall be removed from the primary enclosure when such uneaten supplements accumulate or such bedding becomes soiled to a degree that might be harmful or uncomfortable to animals therein.
§ 3.30
Watering.
Unless food supplements consumed by guinea pigs or hamsters supply them with their normal water requirements, potable water shall be provided daily except as might otherwise be required to provide adequate veterinary care. Open containers used for dispensing water to guinea pigs or hamsters shall be so placed in or attached to the primary enclosure as to minimize contamination from excreta. All watering receptacles shall be sanitized when dirty:
Provided, however,
That such receptacles shall be sanitized at least once every 2 weeks.
§ 3.31
Sanitation.
(a)
Cleaning and sanitation of primary enclosures.
(1) Primary enclosures shall be cleaned and sanitized often enough to prevent an accumulation of excreta or debris:
Provided, however,
That such enclosures shall be sanitized at least once every 2 weeks in the manner provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(2) In the event a primary enclosure becomes soiled or wet to a degree that might be harmful or uncomfortable to the animals therein due to leakage of the watering system, discharges from dead or dying animals, spoiled perishable foods, or moisture condensation, the guinea pigs or hamsters shall be transferred to clean primary enclosures.
(3) Prior to the introduction of guinea pigs or hamsters into empty primary enclosures previously occupied, such enclosures shall be sanitized in the manner provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(4) Primary enclosures for guinea pigs or hamsters shall be sanitized by washing them with hot water (180 °F.) and soap or detergent as in a mechanical cage washer, or by washing all soiled surfaces with a detergent solution followed by a safe and effective disinfectant, or by cleaning all soiled surfaces with live steam.
(b)
Housekeeping.
Premises (buildings and grounds) shall be kept clean and in good repair in order to protect the animals from injury and to facilitate the prescribed husbandry practices set forth in this subpart. Premises shall remain free of accumulations of trash.
(c)
Pest control.
An effective program for the control of insects, ectoparasites, and avian and mammalian pests shall be established and maintained.
§ 3.32
Employees.
A sufficient number of employees shall be utilized to maintain the prescribed level of husbandry practices set forth in this subpart. Such practices shall be under the supervision of an animal caretaker who has a background in animal husbandry or care.
§ 3.33
Classification and separation.
Animals housed in the same primary enclosure shall be maintained in compatible groups, with the following additional restrictions:
(a) Except where harem breeding is practiced, preweanling guinea pigs shall not be housed in the same primary enclosure with adults other than their parents.
(b) Guinea pigs shall not be housed in the same primary enclosure with hamsters, nor shall guinea pigs or hamsters be housed in the same primary enclosure with any other species of animals.
(c) Guinea pigs or hamsters under quarantine or treatment for a communicable disease shall be separated from other guinea pigs or hamsters and other susceptible species of animals in such a manner as to minimize dissemination of such disease.
§ 3.34
[Reserved]

# Transportation Standards

# Authority:
Sections 3.35 through 3.41 issued under secs. 3, 5, 6, 10, 11, 14, 16, 17, 21; 80 Stat. 353; 84 Stat. 1561, 1562, 1563, 1564; 90 Stat. 418, 419, 420, 423; (7 U.S.C. 2133, 2135, 2136, 2140, 2141, 2144, 2146, 2147, 2151); 37 FR 28464, 28477, 38 FR 19141.
§ 3.35
Consignments to carriers and intermediate handlers.
(a) Carriers and intermediate handlers shall not accept any live guinea pig or hamster presented by any dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, or other person, or any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or any State or local government for shipment, in commerce, more than 4 hours prior to the scheduled departure of the primary conveyance on which it is to be transported:
Provided, however,
That the carrier or intermediate handler and any dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, or other person, or any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or any State or local government may mutually agree to extend the time of acceptance to not more than 6 hours if specific prior scheduling of the animal shipment to destination has been made.
(b) Any carrier or intermediate handler shall only accept for transportation or transport, in commerce any live guinea pig or hamster in a primary enclosure which conforms to the requirements set forth in § 3.36 of the standards:
Provided, however,
That any carrier or intermediate handler may accept for transportation or transport, in commerce, any live guinea pig or hamster consigned by any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States having laboratory animal facilities or exhibiting animals, or any licensed or registered dealer, research facility, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale, if such consignor furnishes to the carrier or intermediate handler a certificate, signed by the consignor, stating that the primary enclosure complies with § 3.36 of the standards, unless such primary enclosure is obviously defective or damaged and it is apparent that it cannot reasonably be expected to contain the live guinea pig or hamster without causing suffering or injury to such live guinea pig or hamster. A copy of such certificate shall accompany the shipment to destination. The certificate of compliance shall include at least the following information:
(1) Name and address of the consignor;
(2) The number of guinea pigs or hamsters in the primary enclosure(s);
(3) A certifying statement (e.g., “I hereby certify that the ____ (number) primary enclosure(s) which are used to transport the animal(s) in this shipment complies (comply) with USDA standards for primary enclosures (9 CFR part 3).”); and
(4) The signature of the consignor, and date.
(c) Carriers or intermediate handlers whose facilities fail to meet the minimum temperature allowed by the standards may accept for transportation or transport, in commerce, any
live hamster consigned by any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local government, or by any person (including any licensee or registrant under the Act, as well as any private individual) if the consignor furnishes to the carrier or intermediate handler a certificate executed by a veterinarian accredited by this Department pursuant to part 160 of this title on a specified date which shall not be more than 10 days prior to delivery of such hamster for transportation in commerce, stating that such live hamster is acclimated to air temperatures lower than those prescribed in §§ 3.40 and 3.41. A copy of such certificate shall accompany the shipment to destination. The certificate shall include the following information:
(1) Name and address of the consignor;
(2) The number of hamsters in the shipment;
(3) A certifying statement (e.g., “I hereby certify that the animal(s) in this shipment is (are), to the best of my knowledge, acclimated to air temperatures lower than 7.2 °C. (45 °F.).”); and
(4) The signature of the USDA accredited veterinarian, assigned accreditation number, and date.
(d) Carriers and intermediate handlers shall attempt to notify the consignee at least once in every 6 hour period following the arrival of any live guinea pig or hamster at the animal holding area of the terminal cargo facility. The time, date, and method of each attempted notification and the final notification to the consignee and the name of the person notifying the consignee shall be recorded on the copy of the shipping document retained by the carrier or intermediate handler and on a copy of the shipping document accompanying the animal shipment.
[42 FR 31563, June 21, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 22163, May 16, 1978; 44 FR 63492, Nov. 2, 1979]
§ 3.36
Primary enclosures used to transport live guinea pigs and hamsters.
No person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations shall offer for transportation, or transport, in commerce any live guinea pig or hamster in a primary enclosure that does not conform to the following requirements:
(a) Primary enclosures, such as compartments, transport cages, cartons, or crates, used to transport live guinea pigs or hamsters shall be constructed in such a manner that (1) the structural strength of the enclosure shall be sufficient to contain the live guinea pigs or hamsters and to withstand the normal rigors of transportation; (2) the interior of the enclosure shall be free from any protrusions that could be injurious to the live guinea pigs or hamsters contained therein; (3) the inner surfaces of corrugated fiberboard, cardboard, or plastic containers shall be covered or laminated with wire mesh or screen where necessary to prevent escape of the animals; (4) the openings of such enclosures are easily accessible at all times for emergency removal of the live guinea pigs or hamsters; (5) except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, there are ventilation openings located on two opposite walls of the primary enclosure and the ventilation openings on each such wall shall be at least 16 percent of the total surface area of each such wall, or there are ventilation openings located on all four walls of the primary enclosure and the ventilation openings on each such wall shall be at least 8 percent of the total surface area of each such wall:
Provided, however,
That at least one-third of the total minimum area required for ventilation of the primary enclosure shall be located on the lower one-half of the primary enclosure and at least one-third of the total minimum area required for ventilation of the primary enclosure shall be located on the upper one-half of the primary enclosure; (6) except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, projecting rims or other devices shall be on the exterior of the outside walls with any ventilation openings to prevent obstruction of the ventilation openings and to provide a minimum air circulation space of 1.9 centimeters (.75 inches) between the primary enclosure and any adjacent cargo or conveyance wall; and (7) except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, adequate handholds or other devices for lifting shall be provided on the exterior of the primary enclosure
to enable the primary enclosure to be lifted without tilting and to ensure that the person handling the primary enclosure will not be in contact with the guinea pigs or hamsters.
(b) Live guinea pigs or hamsters transported in the same primary enclosure shall be of the same species and maintained in compatible groups.
(c) Primary enclosures used to transport live guinea pigs or hamsters shall be large enough to ensure that each animal contained therein has sufficient space to turn about freely and to make normal postural adjustments.
(d) Not more than 15 live guinea pigs shall be transported in the same primary enclosure. No more than 50 live hamsters shall be transported in the same primary enclosure.
(e) In addition to the other provisions of this section, the following requirements shall also apply to primary enclosures used to transport live guinea pigs or hamsters:
(1)
Guinea pigs.
(i) The interior height of primary enclosures used to transport live guinea pigs weighing up to 500 grams shall be at least 15.2 centimeters (6 inches) and the interior height of primary enclosures used to transport live guinea pigs weighing over 500 grams shall be at least 17.8 centimeters (7 inches).
(ii) Each live guinea pig transported in a primary enclosure shall be provided a minimum amount of floor space in accordance with the following table:
Minimum space per live guinea pig
Weight (grams)
Square centimeters
Square inches
Up to 350
193.6
30
350 to 600
290.3
45
Over 600
354.8
55
(2)
Hamsters.
(i) The interior height of primary enclosures used to transport live hamsters shall be at least 15.2 centimeters (6 inches) except that in the case of dwarf hamsters such interior height shall be at least 12.7 centimeters (5 inches).
(ii) Each live hamster transported in a primary enclosure shall be provided a minimum amount of floor space in accordance with the following table:
Minimum space per live hamster
Age
Dwarf
Square centimeters
Square inches
Other
Square centimeters
Square inches
Weaning to 5 wks
32.2
5.0
45.2
7
5 to 10 wks
48.3
7.5
71.0
11
Over 10 wks
58.1
9.0
96.8
15
(f) Primary enclosures used to transport live guinea pigs or hamsters as provided in this section shall have solid bottoms to prevent leakage in shipment and shall be cleaned and sanitized in a manner prescribed in § 3.31 of the standards, if previously used. Such primary enclosures shall contain clean litter of a suitable absorbent material, which is safe and nontoxic to the guinea pigs or hamsters, in sufficient quantity to absorb and cover excreta, unless the guinea pigs or hamsters are on wire or other nonsolid floors.
(g) Primary enclosures used to transport live guinea pigs or hamsters, except where such primary enclosures are permanently affixed in the animal cargo space of the primary conveyance, shall be clearly marked on top and on one or more sides with the words “Live Animals” in letters not less than 2.5 centimeters (1 inch) in height, and with arrows or other markings, to indicate the correct upright position of the container.
(h) Documents accompanying the shipment shall be attached in an easily accessible manner to the outside of a primary enclosure which is part of such shipment.
(i) When a primary enclosure is permanently affixed within the animal cargo space of the primary conveyance so that the front opening is the only source of ventilation for such primary
enclosure, the front opening shall open directly to the outside or to an unobstructed aisle or passageway within the primary conveyance. Such front ventilation opening shall be at least 90 percent of the total surface area of the front wall of the primary enclosure and covered with bars, wire mesh or smooth expanded metal.
[42 FR 31563, June 21, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 21163, May 16, 1978; 55 FR 28882, July 16, 1990]
§ 3.37
Primary conveyances (motor vehicle, rail, air, and marine).
(a) The animal cargo space of primary conveyances used in transporting live guinea pigs and hamsters shall be designed and constructed to protect the health, and ensure the safety and comfort of the live guinea pigs and hamsters at all times.
(b) The animal cargo space shall be constructed and maintained in a manner to prevent the ingress of engine exhaust fumes and gases from the primary conveyance during transportation in commerce.
(c) No live guinea pig or hamster shall be placed in an animal cargo space that does not have a supply of air sufficient for normal breathing for each live animal contained therein, and the primary enclosures shall be positioned in the animal cargo space in such a manner that each live guinea pig or hamster has access to sufficient air for normal breathing.
(d) Primary enclosures shall be positioned in the primary conveyance in such a manner that in an emergency the live guinea pigs or hamsters can be removed from the primary conveyance as soon as possible.
(e) The interior of the animal cargo space shall be kept clean.
(f) Live guinea pigs and hamsters shall not be transported with any material, substance (e.g., dry ice) or device which may reasonably be expected to be injurious to the health and well-being of the guinea pigs and hamsters unless proper precaution is taken to prevent such injury.
(g) The animal cargo space of primary conveyances used to transport guinea pigs or hamsters shall be mechanically sound and provide fresh air by means of windows, doors, vents, or air conditioning so as to minimize drafts, odors, and moisture condensation. Auxiliary ventilation, such as fans, blowers, or air conditioners, shall be used in any cargo space containing live guinea pigs or hamsters when the ambient temperature in the animal cargo space is 75 °F (23.9 °C) or higher. The ambient temperature within the animal cargo space shall not exceed 85 °F (29.5 °C) or fall below 45 °F (7.2 °C), except that the ambient temperature in the cargo space may be below 45 °F (7.2 °C) for hamsters if the hamsters are accompanied by a certificate of acclimation to lower temperatures, as provided in § 3.35(c) of this part.
[42 FR 31563, June 21, 1977, as amended at 55 FR 28882, July 16, 1990]
§ 3.38
Food and water requirements.
(a) If live guinea pigs or hamsters are to be transported for a period of more than 6 hours, the animals shall have access to food and water or a type of food, which provides the requirements for food and water in quantity and quality sufficient to satisfy their food and water needs, during transit.
(b) Any dealer, research facility, exhibitor or operator of an auction sale offering any live guinea pig or hamster to any carrier or intermediate handler for transportation, in commerce, shall provide an adequate supply of food or type of food, which provides the requirements for food and water, within the primary enclosure to meet the requirements of this section.
(c) No carrier or intermediate handler shall accept for transportation, in commerce, any live guinea pig or hamster without an adequate supply of food or type of food, which provides the requirements for food and water, within the primary enclosure to meet the requirements of this section.
[42 FR 31563, June 21, 1977]
§ 3.39
Care in transit.
(a) During surface transportation, it shall be the responsibility of the driver or other employee to visually observe the live guinea pigs or hamsters as frequently as circumstances may dictate, but not less than once every 4 hours, to assure that they are receiving sufficient air for normal breathing, their
ambient temperatures are within the prescribed limits, all other applicable standards are being complied with and to determine whether any of the live guinea pigs or hamsters are in obvious physical distress and to provide any needed veterinary care as soon as possible. When transported by air, live guinea pigs and hamsters shall be visually observed by the carrier as frequently as circumstances may dictate, but not less than once every 4 hours, if the animal cargo space is accessible during flight. If the animal cargo space is not accessible during flight, the carrier shall visually observe the live guinea pigs or hamsters whenever loaded and unloaded and whenever the animal cargo space is otherwise accessible to assure that they are receiving sufficient air for normal breathing, their ambient temperatures are within the prescribed limits, all other applicable standards are being complied with and to determine whether any such live guinea pigs or hamsters are in obvious physical distress. The carrier shall provide any needed veterinary care as soon as possible. No guinea pig or hamster in obvious physical distress shall be transported in commerce.
(b) During the course of transportation, in commerce, live guinea pigs or hamsters shall not be removed from their primary enclosures unless placed in other primary enclosures or facilities conforming to the requirements provided in this subpart.
[42 FR 31563, June 21, 1977]
§ 3.40
Terminal facilities.
No person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations shall commingle shipments of live guinea pigs or hamsters with inanimate cargo. All animal holding areas of a terminal facility where shipments of live guinea pigs or hamsters are maintained shall be cleaned and sanitized as prescribed in § 3.31 of the standards often enough to prevent an accumulation of debris or excreta, to minimize vermin infestation, and to prevent a disease hazard. An effective program for the control of insects, ectoparasites, and avian and mammalian pests shall be established and maintained for all animal holding areas. Any animal holding area containing live guinea pigs or hamsters shall be provided with fresh air by means of windows, doors, vents, or air conditioning and may be ventilated or air circulated by means of fans, blowers, or an air conditioning system so as to minimize drafts, odors, and moisture condensation. Auxiliary ventilation, such as exhaust fans and vents or fans or blowers or air conditioning shall be used for any animal holding area containing live guinea pigs and hamsters when the air temperature within such animal holding area is 23.9 °C. (75. °F.) or higher. The air temperature around any live guinea pig or hamster in any animal holding area shall not be allowed to fall below 7.2 °C. (45 °F.) nor be allowed to exceed 29.5 °C. (85 °F.) at any time. To ascertain compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, the air temperature around any live guinea pig or hamster shall be measured and read outside the primary enclosure which contains such guinea pig or hamster at a distance not to exceed .91 meters (3 feet) from any one of the external walls of the primary enclosure and measured on a level parallel to the bottom of such primary enclosure at a point which approximates half the distance between the top and bottom of such primary enclosure.
[43 FR 56215, Dec. 1, 1978, as amended at 55 FR 28883, July 16, 1990]
§ 3.41
Handling.
(a) Any person who is subject to the Animal Welfare regulations and who moves live guinea pigs or hamsters from an animal holding area of a terminal facility to a primary conveyance or vice versa shall do so as quickly and efficiently as possible. Any person subject to the Animal Welfare Act and holding any live guinea pig or hamster in an animal holding area of a terminal facility or transporting any live guinea pig or hamster to or from a terminal facility shall provide the following:
(1)
Shelter from sunlight.
When sunlight is likely to cause overheating or discomfort, sufficient shade shall be provided to protect the live guinea pigs and hamsters from the direct rays of the sun and such live guinea pigs or hamsters shall not be subjected to surrounding air temperatures which exceed 29.5 °C. (85 °F.), and which shall be
measured and read in the manner prescribed § 3.40 of this part, for a period of more than 45 minutes.
(2)
Shelter from rain or snow.
Live guinea pigs and hamsters shall be provided protection to allow them to remain dry during rain or snow.
(3)
Shelter from cold weather.
Transporting devices shall be covered to provide protection for live guinea pigs and hamsters when the outdoor air temperature falls below 10 °C. (50 °F.), and such live guinea pigs and hamsters shall not be subjected to surrounding air temperatures which fall below 7.2 °C. (45 °F.), and which shall be measured and read in the manner prescribed in § 3.40 of this part, for a period of more than 45 minutes.
(b) Care shall be exercised to avoid handling of the primary enclosure in such a manner that may cause physical or emotional trauma to the live guinea pig or hamster contained therein.
(c) Primary enclosures used to transport any live guinea pig or hamster shall not be tossed, dropped, or needlessly tilted and shall not be stacked in a manner which may reasonably be expected to result in their falling.
[43 FR 21163, May 16, 1978, as amended at 43 FR 56216, Dec. 1, 1978; 55 FR 28883, July 16, 1990]

# Subpart C—Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment and Transportation of Rabbits

# Facilities and Operating Standards
§ 3.50
Facilities, general.
(a)
Structural strength.
Indoor and outdoor housing facilities for rabbits shall be structurally sound and shall be maintained in good repair, to protect the animals from injury, to contain the animals, and to restrict the entrance of other animals.
(b)
Water and electric power.
Reliable and adequate electric power, if required to comply with other provisions of this subpart, and adequate potable water shall be available.
(c)
Storage.
Supplies of food and bedding shall be stored in facilities which adequately protect such supplies against infestation or contamination by vermin. Refrigeration shall be provided for supplies of perishable food.
(d)
Waste disposal.
Provision shall be made for the removal and disposal of animal and food wastes, bedding, dead animals, and debris. Disposal facilities shall be so provided and operated as to minimize vermin infestation, odors, and disease hazards.
(e)
Washroom and sinks.
Facilities, such as washrooms, basins, or sinks, shall be provided to maintain cleanliness among animal caretakers.
[32 FR 3273, Feb. 24, 1967, as amended at 44 FR 63492, Nov. 2, 1979]
§ 3.51
Facilities, indoor.
(a)
Heating.
Indoor housing facilities for rabbits need not be heated.
(b)
Ventilation.
Indoor housing facilities for rabbits shall be adequately ventilated to provide for the health and comfort of the animals at all times. Such facilities shall be provided with fresh air either by means of windows, doors, vents, or air conditioning and shall be ventilated so as to minimize drafts, odors, and moisture condensation. Auxiliary ventilation, such as exhaust fans and vents or air conditioning, shall be provided when the ambient temperature is 85 °F. or higher.
(c)
Lighting.
Indoor housing facilities for rabbits shall have ample light, by natural or artificial means, or both, of good quality and well distributed. Such lighting shall provide uniformly distributed illumination of sufficient light intensity to permit routine inspection and cleaning during the entire working period. Primary enclosures shall be so placed as to protect the rabbits from excessive illumination.
(d)
Interior surfaces.
The interior building surfaces of indoor housing facilities shall be constructed and maintained so that they are substantially impervious to moisture and may be readily sanitized.
§ 3.52
Facilities, outdoor.
(a)
Shelter from sunlight.
When sunlight is likely to cause overheating or discomfort, sufficient shade shall be provided to allow all rabbits kept outdoors to protect themselves from the
direct rays of the sun. When the atmospheric temperature exceeds 90 °F. artificial cooling shall be provided by a sprinkler system or other means.
(b)
Shelter from rain or snow.
Rabbits kept outdoors shall be provided with access to shelter to allow them to remain dry during rain or snow.
(c)
Shelter from cold weather.
Shelter shall be provided for all rabbits kept outdoors when the atmospheric temperature falls below 40 °F.
(d)
Protection from predators.
Outdoor housing facilities for rabbits shall be fenced or otherwise enclosed to minimize the entrance of predators.
(e)
Drainage.
A suitable method shall be provided to rapidly eliminate excess water.
§ 3.53
Primary enclosures.
All primary enclosures for rabbits shall conform to the following requirements:
(a)
General.
(1) Primary enclosures shall be structurally sound and maintained in good repair to protect the rabbits from injury, to contain them, and to keep predators out.
(2) Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so as to enable the rabbits to remain dry and clean.
(3) Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so that the rabbits contained therein have convenient access to clean food and water as required in this subpart.
(4) The floors of the primary enclosures shall be constructed so as to protect the rabbits' feet and legs from injury. Litter shall be provided in all primary enclosures having solid floors.
(5) A suitable nest box containing clean nesting material shall be provided in each primary enclosure housing a female with a litter less than one month of age.
(b)
Space requirements for primary enclosures acquired before August 15, 1990.
Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so as to provide sufficient space for the animal to make normal postural adjustments with adequate freedom of movement. Each rabbit housed in a primary enclosure shall be provided a minimum amount of floor space, exclusive of the space taken up by food and water receptacles, in accordance with the following table:
Category
Individual weights (pounds)
Minimum space per rabbit (square inches)
Groups
3 through 5
144
6 through 8
288
9 or more
432
Individual adults
3 through 5
180
6 through 8
360
9 through 11
540
12 or more
720
Nursing females
3 through 5
576
6 through 8
720
9 through 11
864
12 or more
1080
(c)
Space requirements for primary enclosures acquired on or after August 15, 1990.
(1) Primary enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so as to provide sufficient space for the animal to make normal postural adjustments with adequate freedom of movement.
(2) Each rabbit housed in a primary enclosure shall be provided a minimum amount of floor space, exclusive of the space taken up by food and water receptacles, in accordance with the following table:
Individual weights
kg
lbs
Minimum floor space
m
2
ft
2
Minimum interior height
cm
in
Individual rabbits (weaned)
2
2-4
4-5.4
5.4
4.4
4.4-8.8
8.8-11.9
11.9
0.14
0.28
0.37
0.46
1.5
3.0
4.0
5.0
35.56
35.56
35.56
35.56
14
14
14
14
Weight of nursing female
kg
lbs
Minimum floor space/female
litter
m
2
ft
2
Minimum interior height
cm
in
Females with litters
2
2-4
4-5.4
5.4
4.4
4.4-8.8
8.8-11.9
11.9
0.37
0.46
0.56
0.70
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.5
35.56
35.56
35.56
35.56
14
14
14
14
(3) Innovative primary enclosures that do not precisely meet the space requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, but that do provide rabbits with a sufficient volume of space and the opportunity to express species-typical behavior, may be used at research facilities when approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee, and by dealers and exhibitors when approved by the Administrator.
[32 FR 3273, Feb. 24, 1967, as amended at 55 FR 28883, July 16, 1990]

# Animal Health and Husbandry Standards
§ 3.54
Feeding.
(a) Rabbits shall be fed at least once each day except as otherwise might be required to provide adequate veterinary care. The food shall be free from contamination, wholesome, palatable and of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements for the condition and size of the rabbit.
(b) Food receptacles shall be accessible to all rabbits in a primary enclosure and shall be located so as to minimize contamination by excreta. All food receptacles shall be kept clean and sanitized at least once every 2 weeks. If self feeders are used for the feeding of dry feed, measures must be taken to prevent molding, deterioration or caking of the feed.
§ 3.55
Watering.
Sufficient potable water shall be provided daily except as might otherwise be required to provide adequate veterinary care. All watering receptacles shall be sanitized when dirty:
Provided, however,
That such receptacles shall be sanitized at least once every 2 weeks.
§ 3.56
Sanitation.
(a)
Cleaning of primary enclosures.
(1) Primary enclosures shall be kept reasonably free of excreta, hair, cobwebs and other debris by periodic cleaning. Measures shall be taken to prevent the wetting of rabbits in such enclosures if a washing process is used.
(2) In primary enclosures equipped with solid floors, soiled litter shall be removed and replaced with clean litter at least once each week.
(3) If primary enclosures are equipped with wire or mesh floors, the troughs or pans under such enclosures shall be cleaned at least once each week. If worm bins are used under such enclosures they shall be maintained in a sanitary condition.
(b)
Sanitization of primary enclosures.
(1) Primary enclosures for rabbits shall be sanitized at least once every 30 days in the manner provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) Prior to the introduction of rabbits into empty primary enclosures previously occupied, such enclosures shall be sanitized in the manner provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) Primary enclosures for rabbits shall be sanitized by washing them with hot water (180 °F.) and soap or detergent as in a mechanical cage washer, or by washing all soiled surfaces with a detergent solution followed by a safe and effective disinfectant, or by cleaning all soiled surfaces with live steam or flame.
(c)
Housekeeping.
Premises (buildings and grounds) shall be kept clean and in good repair in order to protect the animals from injury and to facilitate the prescribed husbandry practices set forth in this subpart. Premises shall remain free of accumulations of trash.
(d)
Pest control.
An effective program for the control of insects,
ectoparasites, and avian and mammalian pests shall be established and maintained.
§ 3.57
Employees.
A sufficient number of employees shall be utilized to maintain the prescribed level of husbandry practices set forth in this subpart. Such practices shall be under the supervision of an animal caretaker who has a background in animal husbandry or care.
§ 3.58
Classification and separation.
Animals housed in the same primary enclosure shall be maintained in compatible groups, with the following additional restrictions:
(a) Rabbits shall not be housed in the same primary enclosure with any other species of animals unless required for scientific reasons.
(b) Rabbits under quarantine or treatment for a communicable disease shall be separated from other rabbits and other susceptible species of animals in such a manner as to minimize dissemination of such disease.
§ 3.59
[Reserved]

# Transportation Standards

# Authority:
Sections 3.60 through 3.66 issued under secs. 3, 5, 6, 10, 11, 14, 16, 17, 21; 80 Stat. 353; 84 Stat. 1561, 1562, 1563, 1564; 90 Stat. 418, 420, 423 (7 U.S.C. 2133, 2135, 2136, 2140, 2141, 2144, 2146, 2147, 2151); 37 FR 28464, 28477, 38 FR 19141.

# Source:
Sections 3.60 through 3.66 appear at 42 FR 31565, June 21, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3.60
Consignments to carriers and intermediate handlers.
(a) Carriers and intermediate handlers shall not accept any live rabbit presented by any dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, or other person, or any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or any State or local government for shipment, in commerce, more than 4 hours prior to the scheduled departure of the primary conveyance on which it is to be transported:
Provided, however,
That the carrier or intermediate handler and any dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, or other person, or any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or any State or local government may mutually agree to extend the time of acceptance to not more than 6 hours if specific prior scheduling of the animal shipment to destination has been made.
(b) Any carrier or intermediate handler shall only accept for transportation or transport, in commerce, any live rabbit in a primary enclosure which conforms to the requirements set forth in § 3.61 of the standards:
Provided, however,
That any carrier or intermediate handler may accept for transportation or transport, in commerce, any live rabbit consigned by any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States having laboratory animal facilities or exhibiting animals or any licensed or registered dealer, research facility, exhibitor, or operator of any auction sale, if such consignor furnishes to the carrier or intermediate handler a certificate, signed by the consignor, stating that the primary enclosure complies with § 3.61 of the standards, unless such primary enclosure is obviously defective or damaged and it is apparent that it cannot reasonably be expected to contain the live rabbit without causing suffering or injury to such live rabbit. A copy of such certificate shall accompany the shipment to destination. The certificate shall include at least the following information:
(1) Name and address of the consignor;
(2) The number of rabbits in the primary enclosure(s);
(3) A certifying statement (e.g., “I hereby certify that the ____ (number) primary enclosure(s) which are used to transport the animal(s) in this shipment complies (comply) with USDA standards for primary enclosures (9 CFR part 3).”); and
(4) The signature of the consignor, and date.
(c) Carriers or intermediate handlers whose facilities fail to meet the minimum temperature allowed by the standards may accept for transportation or transport, in commerce, any live rabbit consigned by any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or
local government, or by any person (including any licensee or registrant under the Act, as well as any private individual) if the consignor furnishes to the carrier or intermediate handler a certificate executed by a veterinarian accredited by this Department pursuant to part 160 of this title on a specified date which shall not be more than 10 days prior to delivery of such rabbit for transportation in commerce, stating that such live rabbit is acclimated to air temperatures lower than those prescribed in §§ 3.65 and 3.66. A copy of such certificate shall accompany the shipment to destination. The certificate shall include at least the following information:
(1) Name and address of the consignor;
(2) The number of rabbits in the shipment;
(3) A certifying statement (e.g., “I hereby certify that the animal(s) in this shipment is (are), to the best of my knowledge, acclimated to air temperatures lower than 7.2 °C. (45 °F.).)”; and
(4) The signature of the USDA accredited veterinarian, assigned accreditation number, and date.
(d) Carriers and intermediate handlers shall attempt to notify the consignee at least once in every 6 hour period following the arrival of any live rabbit at the animal holding area of the terminal cargo facility. The time, date, and method of each attempted notification and the final notification to the consignee and the name of the person notifying the consignee shall be recorded on the copy of the shipping document retained by the carrier or intermediate handler and on a copy of the shipping document accompanying the animal shipment.
[42 FR 31565, June 21, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 21164, May 16, 1978; 44 FR 63493, Nov. 2, 1979]
§ 3.61
Primary enclosures used to transport live rabbits.
No person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations shall offer for transportation or transport in commerce any live rabbit in a primary enclosure that does not conform to the following requirements:
(a) Primary enclosures, such as compartments, transport cages, cartons, or crates, used to transport live rabbits shall be constructed in such a manner that:
(1) The structural strength of the enclosure shall be sufficient to contain the live rabbits and to withstand the normal rigors of transportation;
(2) The interior of the enclosure shall be free from any protrusions that could be injurious to the live rabbits contained therein;
(3) The openings of such enclosures are easily accessible at all times for emergency removal of the live rabbits;
(4) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, there are ventilation openings located on two opposite walls of the primary enclosure and the ventilation openings on each such wall shall be at least 16 percent of the total surface area of each such wall, or there are ventilation openings located on all four walls of the primary enclosure and the ventilation openings on each such wall shall be at least 8 percent of the total surface area of each such wall:
Provided, however,
That at least one-third of the total minimum area required for ventilation of the primary enclosure shall be located on the lower one-half of the primary enclosure and at least one-third of the total minimum area required for ventilation of the primary enclosure shall be located on the upper one-half of the primary enclosure;
(5) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, projecting rims or other devices shall be on the exterior of the outside walls with any ventilation openings to prevent obstruction of the ventilation openings and to provide a minimum air circulation space 1.9 centimeters (.75 inch) between the primary enclosure and any adjacent cargo or conveyance wall; and
(6) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, adequate handholds or other devices for lifting shall be provided on the exterior of the primary enclosure to enable the primary enclosure to be lifted without tilting and to ensure that the person handling the primary enclosure will not be in contact with the rabbit.
(b) Live rabbits transported in the same primary enclosure shall be maintained in compatible groups and shall not be transported in the same primary enclosure with other species of animals.
(c) Primary enclosures used to transport live rabbits shall be large enough to ensure that each rabbit contained therein has sufficient space to turn about freely and to make normal postural adjustments.
(d) Not more than 15 live rabbits shall be transported in the same primary enclosure.
(e) Primary enclosures used to transport live rabbits as provided in this section shall have solid bottoms to prevent leakage in shipment and shall be cleaned and sanitized in a manner prescribed in § 3.56 of the standards, if previously used. Such primary enclosures shall contain clean litter of a suitable absorbent material which is safe and nontoxic to the rabbits, in sufficient quantity to absorb and cover excreta, unless the rabbits are on wire or other nonsolid floors.
(f) Primary enclosures used to transport live rabbits, except where such primary enclosures are permanently affixed in the animal cargo space of the primary conveyance, shall be clearly marked on top and on one or more sides with the words “Live Animal” in letters not less than 2.5 centimeters (1 inch) in height, and with arrows or other markings, to indicate the correct upright position of the container.
(g) Documents accompanying the shipment shall be attached in an easily accessible manner to the outside of a primary enclosure which is part of such shipment.
(h) When a primary enclosure is permanently affixed within the animal cargo space of the primary conveyance so that the front opening is the only source of ventilation for such primary enclosure, the front opening shall open directly to the outside or to an unobstructed aisle or passageway within the primary conveyance. Such front ventilation opening shall be at least 90 percent of the total surface area of the front wall of the primary enclosure and covered with bars, wire mesh or smooth expanded metal.
[42 FR 31565, June 21, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 21164, May 16, 1978; 55 FR 28883, July 16, 1990; 85 FR 28799, May 13, 2020]
§ 3.62
Primary conveyances (motor vehicle, rail, air, and marine).
(a) The animal cargo space of primary conveyances used in transporting live rabbits shall be designed and constructed to protect the health, and ensure the safety and comfort of the rabbits contained therein at all times.
(b) The animal cargo space shall be constructed and maintained in a manner to prevent the ingress of engine exhaust fumes and gases from the primary conveyance during transportation in commerce.
(c) No live rabbit shall be placed in an animal cargo space that does not have a supply of air sufficient for normal breathing for each live animal contained therein, and the primary enclosures shall be positioned in the animal cargo space in such a manner that each rabbit has access to sufficient air for normal breathing.
(d) Primary enclosures shall be positioned in the primary conveyance in such a manner that in an emergency the live rabbits can be removed from the primary conveyance as soon as possible.
(e) The interior of the animal cargo space shall be kept clean.
(f) Live rabbits shall not be transported with any material, substance (e.g., dry ice) or device which may reasonably be expected to be injurious to the health and well-being of the rabbits unless proper precaution is taken to prevent such injury.
(g) The animal cargo space of primary conveyances used to transport rabbits shall be mechanically sound and provide fresh air by means of windows, doors, vents, or air conditioning so as to minimize drafts, odors, and moisture condensation. Auxiliary ventilation, such as fans, blowers, or air conditioners, shall be used in any cargo space containing live rabbits when the ambient temperature in the animal cargo space is 75 °F (23.9 °C) or higher. The ambient temperature within the animal cargo space shall not exceed 85 °F (29.5 °C) or fall below 45 °F (7.2 °C),
except that the ambient temperature in the cargo space may be below 45 °F (7.2 °C) if the rabbits are accompanied by a certificate of acclimation to lower temperatures, as provided in § 3.60(c) of this part.
[42 FR 31565, June 21, 1977, as amended at 55 FR 28883, July 16, 1990]
§ 3.63
Food and water requirements.
(a) If live rabbits are to be transported for a period of more than 6 hours, they shall have access to food and water or a type of food, which provides the requirements for food and water in quantity and quality sufficient to satisfy their food and water needs, during transit.
(b) Any dealer, research facility, exhibitor or operator of an auction sale offering any live rabbit to any carrier or intermediate handler for transportation, in commerce, shall provide an adequate supply of food or type of food, which provides the requirements for food and water, within the primary enclosure to meet the requirements of this section.
(c) No carrier or intermediate handler shall accept for transportation, in commerce, any live rabbit without an adequate supply of food or type of food, which provides the requirements for food and water, within the primary enclosure to meet the requirements of this section.
§ 3.64
Care in transit.
(a) During surface transportation, it shall be the responsibility of the driver or other employee to visually observe the live rabbits as frequently as circumstances may dictate, but not less than once every 4 hours, to assure that they are receiving sufficient air for normal breathing, their ambient temperatures are within the prescribed limits, all other applicable standards are being complied with and to determine whether any of the live rabbits are in obvious physical distress and to provide any needed veterinary care as soon as possible. When transported by air, live rabbits shall be visually observed by the carrier as frequently as circumstances may dictate, but not less than once every 4 hours, if the cargo space is accessible during flight. If the animal cargo space is not accessible during flight, the carrier shall visually observe the live rabbits whenever loaded and unloaded and whenever the animal cargo space is otherwise accessible to assure that they are receiving sufficient air for normal breathing, their ambient temperatures are within the prescribed limits, all other applicable standards are being complied with and to determine whether any such live rabbits are in obvious physical distress. The carrier shall provide any needed veterinary care as soon as possible. No rabbit in obvious physical distress shall be transported in commerce.
(b) During the course of transportation, in commerce, live rabbits shall not be removed from their primary enclosures unless placed in other primary enclosures or facilities conforming to the requirements provided in this subpart.
§ 3.65
Terminal facilities.
No person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations shall commingle shipments of live rabbits with inanimate cargo. All animal holding areas of a terminal facility where shipments of rabbits are maintained shall be cleaned and sanitized as prescribed in § 3.56 of the standards often enough to prevent an accumulation of debris or excreta, to minimize vermin infestation, and to prevent a disease hazard. An effective program for the control of insects, ectoparasites, and avian and mammalian pests shall be established and maintained for all animal holding areas. Any animal holding area containing live rabbits shall be provided with fresh air by means of windows, doors, vents, or air conditioning and may be ventilated or air circulated by means of fans, blowers, or an air conditioning system so as to minimize drafts, odors, and moisture condensation. Auxiliary ventilation, such as exhaust fans and vents or fans or blowers or air conditioning shall be used for any animal holding area containing live rabbits when the air temperature within such animal holding area is 23.9 °C. (75 °F.) or higher. The air temperature around any live rabbit in any animal holding area shall not be allowed to fall below 7.2 °C. (45 °F.) nor be allowed to exceed 29.5 °C. (85 °F.) at any time. To ascertain compliance with the
provisions of this paragraph, the air temperature around any live rabbit shall be measured and read outside the primary enclosure which contains such rabbit at a distance not to exceed .91 meters (3 feet) from any one of the external walls of the primary enclosure and on a level parallel to the bottom of such primary enclosure at a point which approximates half the distance between the top and bottom of such primary enclosure.
[43 FR 56216, Dec. 1, 1978, as amended at 55 FR 28883, July 16, 1990]]
§ 3.66
Handling.
(a) Any person who is subject to the Animal Welfare regulations and who moves live rabbits from an animal holding area of a terminal facility to a primary conveyance or vice versa shall do so as quickly and efficiently as possible. Any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations and holding any live rabbit in an animal holding area of a terminal facility or transporting any live rabbit to or from a terminal facility shall provide the following:
(1)
Shelter from sunlight.
When sunlight is likely to cause overheating or discomfort, sufficient shade shall be provided to protect the live rabbits from the direct rays of the sun and such live rabbits shall not be subjected to surrounding air temperatures which exceed 29.5 °C. (85 °F.), and which shall be measured and read in the manner prescribed in § 3.65 of this part, for a period of more than 45 minutes.
(2)
Shelter from rain or snow.
Live rabbits shall be provided protection to allow them to remain dry during rain or snow.
(3)
Shelter from cold weather.
Transporting devices shall be covered to provide protection for live rabbits when the outdoor air temperature falls below 10 °C. (50 °F.), and such live rabbits shall not be subjected to surrounding air temperatures which fall below 7.2 °C. (45 °F.), and which shall be measured and read in the manner prescribed in § 3.65 of this part, for a period of more than 45 minutes unless such rabbits are accompanied by a certificate of acclimation to lower temperatures as prescribed in § 3.60(c).
(b) Care shall be exercised to avoid handling of the primary enclosure in such a manner that may cause physical or emotional trauma to the live rabbit contained therein.
(c) Primary enclosures used to transport any live rabbit shall not be tossed, dropped, or needlessly tilted and shall not be stacked in a manner which may reasonably be expected to result in their falling.
[43 FR 21164, May 16, 1978, as amended at 43 FR 56216, Dec. 1, 1978; 55 FR 28883, July 16, 1990]

# Subpart D—Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment, and Transportation of Nonhuman Primates
2

# Source:
56 FR 6495, Feb. 15, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

# Facilities and Operating Standards
§ 3.75
Housing facilities, general.
(a)
Structure:
construction. Housing facilities for nonhuman primates must be designed and constructed so that they are structurally sound for the species of nonhuman primates housed in them. They must be kept in good repair, and they must protect the animals from injury, contain the animals securely, and restrict other animals from entering.
2
Nonhuman primates include a great diversity of forms, ranging from the marmoset weighing only a few ounces, to the adult gorilla weighing hundreds of pounds, and include more than 240 species. They come from Asia, Africa, and Central and South America, and they live in different habitats in nature. Some have been transported to the United States from their natural habitats and some have been raised in captivity in the United States. Their nutritional and activity requirements differ, as do their social and environmental requirements. As a result, the conditions appropriate for one species do not necessarily apply to another. Accordingly, these minimum specifications must be applied in accordance with the customary and generally accepted professional and husbandry practices considered appropriate for each species, and necessary to promote their psychological well-being.
These minimum standards apply only to live nonhuman primates, unless stated otherwise.
(b)
Condition and site.
Housing facilities and areas used for storing animal
food or bedding must be free of any accumulation of trash, waste material, junk, weeds, and other discarded materials. Animal areas inside of housing facilities must be kept neat and free of clutter, including equipment, furniture, or stored material, but may contain materials actually used and necessary for cleaning the area, and fixtures and equipment necessary for proper husbandry practices and research needs. Housing facilities other than those maintained by research facilities and Federal research facilities must be physically separated from any other businesses. If a housing facility is located on the same premises as any other businesses, it must be physically separated from the other businesses so that animals the size of dogs, skunks, and raccoons, are prevented from entering it.
(c)
Surfaces
—(1)
General requirements.
The surfaces of housing facilities—including perches, shelves, swings, boxes, houses, dens, and other furniture-type fixtures or objects within the facility—must be constructed in a manner and made of materials that allow them to be readily cleaned and sanitized, or removed or replaced when worn or soiled. Furniture-type fixtures or objects must be sturdily constructed and must be strong enough to provide for the safe activity and welfare of nonhuman primates. Floors may be made of dirt, absorbent bedding, sand, gravel, grass, or other similar material that can be readily cleaned, or can be removed or replaced whenever cleaning does not eliminate odors, diseases, pests, insects, or vermin. Any surfaces that come in contact with nonhuman primates must:
(i) Be free of excessive rust that prevents the required cleaning and sanitization, or that affects the structural strength of the surface; and
(ii) Be free of jagged edges or sharp points that might injure the animals.
(2)
Maintenance and replacement of surfaces.
All surfaces must be maintained on a regular basis. Surfaces of housing facilities—including houses, dens, and other furniture-type fixtures and objects within the facility—that cannot be readily cleaned and sanitized, must be replaced when worn or soiled.
(3)
Cleaning.
Hard surfaces with which nonhuman primates come in contact must be spot-cleaned daily and sanitized in accordance with § 3.84 of this subpart to prevent accumulation of excreta or disease hazards. If the species scent mark, the surfaces must be sanitized or replaced at regular intervals as determined by the attending veterinarian in accordance with generally accepted professional and husbandry practices. Floors made of dirt, absorbent bedding, sand, gravel, grass, or other similar material, and planted enclosures must be raked or spot-cleaned with sufficient frequency to ensure all animals the freedom to avoid contact with excreta. Contaminated material must be removed or replaced whenever raking and spot cleaning does not eliminate odors, diseases, insects, pests, or vermin infestation. All other surfaces of housing facilities must be cleaned and sanitized when necessary to satisfy generally accepted husbandry standards and practices. Sanitization may be done by any of the methods provided in § 3.84(b)(3) of this subpart for primary enclosures.
(d)
Water and electric power.
The housing facility must have reliable electric power adequate for heating, cooling, ventilation, and lighting, and for carrying out other husbandry requirements in accordance with the regulations in this subpart. The housing facility must provide running potable water for the nonhuman primates' drinking needs. It must be adequate for cleaning and for carrying out other husbandry requirements.
(e)
Storage.
Supplies of food and bedding must be stored in a manner that protects the supplies from spoilage, contamination, and vermin infestation. The supplies must be stored off the floor and away from the walls, to allow cleaning underneath and around the supplies. Food requiring refrigeration must be stored accordingly, and all food must be stored in a manner that prevents contamination and deterioration of its nutritive value. Only the food and bedding currently being used may be kept in animal areas, and when not in actual use, open food and bedding supplies must be kept in leakproof containers with tightly fitting lids to prevent spoilage and contamination.
Substances that are toxic to the nonhuman primates but that are required for normal husbandry practices must not be stored in food storage and preparation areas, but may be stored in cabinets in the animal areas.
(f)
Drainage and waste disposal.
Housing facility operators must provide for regular and frequent collection, removal, and disposal of animal and food wastes, bedding, dead animals, debris, garbage, water, and any other fluids and wastes, in a manner that minimizes contamination and disease risk. Housing facilities must be equipped with disposal facilities and drainage systems that are constructed and operated so that animal wastes and water are rapidly eliminated and the animals stay dry. Disposal and drainage systems must minimize vermin and pest infestation, insects, odors, and disease hazards. All drains must be properly constructed, installed, and maintained. If closed drainage systems are used, they must be equipped with traps and prevent the backflow of gases and the backup of sewage onto the floor. If the facility uses sump ponds, settlement ponds, or other similar systems for drainage and animal waste disposal, the system must be located far enough away from the animal area of the housing facility to prevent odors, diseases, insects, pests, and vermin infestation. If drip or constant flow watering devices are used to provide water to the animals, excess water must be rapidly drained out of the animal areas by gutters or pipes so that the animals stay dry. Standing puddles of water in animal areas must be mopped up or drained so that the animals remain dry. Trash containers in housing facilities and in food storage and food preparation areas must be leakproof and must have tightly fitted lids on them at all times. Dead animals, animal parts, and animal waste must not be kept in food storage or food preparation areas, food freezers, food refrigerators, and animal areas.
(g)
Washrooms and sinks.
Washing facilities, such as washrooms, basins, sinks, or showers must be provided for animal caretakers and must be readily accessible.
§ 3.76
Indoor housing facilities.
(a)
Heating, cooling, and temperature.
Indoor housing facilities must be sufficiently heated and cooled when necessary to protect nonhuman primates from temperature extremes and to provide for their health and well-being. The ambient temperature in the facility must not fall below 45 °F (7.2 °C) for more than 4 consecutive hours when nonhuman primates are present, and must not rise above 85 °F (29.5 °C) for more than 4 consecutive hours when nonhuman primates are present. The ambient temperature must be maintained at a level that ensures the health and well-being of the species housed, as directed by the attending veterinarian, in accordance with generally accepted professional and husbandry practices.
(b)
Ventilation.
Indoor housing facilities must be sufficiently ventilated at all times when nonhuman primates are present to provide for their health and well-being and to minimize odors, drafts, ammonia levels, and moisture condensation. Ventilation must be provided by windows, doors, vents, fans, or air conditioning. Auxiliary ventilation, such as fans, blowers, or air conditioning, must be provided when the ambient temperature is 85 °F (29.5 °C) or higher. The relative humidity maintained must be at a level that ensures the health and well-being of the animals housed, as directed by the attending veterinarian, in accordance with generally accepted professional and husbandry practices.
(c)
Lighting.
Indoor housing facilities must be lighted well enough to permit routine inspection and cleaning of the facility, and observation of the nonhuman primates. Animal areas must be provided a regular diurnal lighting cycle of either natural or artificial light. Lighting must be uniformly diffused throughout animal facilities and provide sufficient illumination to aid in maintaining good housekeeping practices, adequate cleaning, adequate inspection of animals, and for the well-being of the animals. Primary enclosures must be placed in the housing facility so as to protect the nonhuman primates from excessive light.
§ 3.77
Sheltered housing facilities.
(a)
Heating, cooling, and temperature.
The sheltered part of sheltered housing facilities must be sufficiently heated and cooled when necessary to protect the nonhuman primates from temperature extremes, and to provide for their health and well-being. The ambient temperature in the sheltered part of the facility must not fall below 45 °F (7.2 °C) for more than 4 consecutive hours when nonhuman primates are present, and must not rise above 85 °F (29.5 °C) for more than 4 consecutive hours when nonhuman primates are present, unless temperatures above 85 °F (29.5 °C) are approved by the attending veterinarian, in accordance with generally accepted husbandry practices. The ambient temperature must be maintained at a level that ensures the health and well-being of the species housed, as directed by the attending veterinarian, in accordance with generally accepted professional and husbandry practices.
(b)
Ventilation.
The sheltered part of sheltered animal facilities must be sufficiently ventilated at all times to provide for the health and well-being of nonhuman primates and to minimize odors, drafts, ammonia levels, and moisture condensation. Ventilation must be provided by windows, doors, vents, fans, or air conditioning. Auxiliary ventilation, such as fans, blowers, or air conditioning, must be provided when the ambient temperature is 85 °F (29.5 °C) or higher. The relative humidity maintained must be at a level that ensures the health and well-being of the species housed, as directed by the attending veterinarian, in accordance with generally accepted professional and husbandry practices.
(c)
Lighting.
The sheltered part of sheltered housing facilities must be lighted well enough to permit routine inspection and cleaning of the facility, and observation of the nonhuman primates. Animal areas must be provided a regular diurnal lighting cycle of either natural or artificial light. Lighting must be uniformly diffused throughout animal facilities and provide sufficient illumination to aid in maintaining good housekeeping practices, adequate cleaning, adequate inspection of animals, and for the well-being of the animals. Primary enclosures must be placed in the housing facility so as to protect the nonhuman primates from excessive light.
(d)
Shelter from the elements.
Sheltered housing facilities for nonhuman primates must provide adequate shelter from the elements at all times. They must provide protection from the sun, rain, snow, wind, and cold, and from any weather conditions that may occur.
(e)
Capacity: multiple shelters.
Both the sheltered part of sheltered housing facilities and any other necessary shelter from the elements must be sufficiently large to provide protection comfortably to each nonhuman primate housed in the facility. If aggressive or dominant animals are housed in the facility with other animals, there must be multiple shelters or other means to ensure that each nonhuman primate has access to shelter.
(f)
Perimeter fence.
On and after February 15, 1994, the outdoor area of a sheltered housing facility must be enclosed by a fence that is of sufficient height to keep unwanted species out. Fences less than 6 feet high must be approved by the Administrator. The fence must be constructed so that it protects nonhuman primates by restricting unauthorized humans, and animals the size of dogs, skunks, and raccoons from going through it or under it and having contact with the nonhuman primates. It must be of sufficient distance from the outside wall or fence of the primary enclosure to prevent physical contact between animals inside the enclosure and outside the perimeter fence. Such fences less than 3 feet in distance from the primary enclosure must be approved by the Administrator. A perimeter fence is not required if:
(1) The outside walls of the primary enclosure are made of a sturdy, durable material such as concrete, wood, plastic, metal, or glass, and are high enough and constructed in a manner that restricts contact with or entry by humans and animals that are outside the sheltered housing facility; or
(2) The housing facility is surrounded by a natural barrier that restricts the nonhuman primates to the housing facility and protects them from contact
with unauthorized humans and animals that are outside the sheltered housing facility, and the Administrator gives written permission
(g)
Public barriers.
Fixed public exhibits housing nonhuman primates, such as zoos, must have a barrier between the primary enclosure and the public at any time the public is present, that restricts physical contact between the public and the nonhuman primates. Nonhuman primates used in trained animal acts or in uncaged public exhibits must be under the direct control and supervision of an experienced handler or trainer at all times when the public is present. Trained nonhuman primates may be permitted physical contact with the public, as allowed under § 2.131, but only if they are under the direct control and supervision of an experienced handler or trainer at all times during the contact.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0093)
§ 3.78
Outdoor housing facilities.
(a)
Acclimation.
Only nonhuman primates that are acclimated, as determined by the attending veterinarian, to the prevailing temperature and humidity at the outdoor housing facility during the time of year they are at the facility, and that can tolerate the range of temperatures and climatic conditions known to occur at the facility at that time of year without stress or discomfort, may be kept in outdoor facilities.
(b)
Shelter from the elements.
Outdoor housing facilities for nonhuman primates must provide adequate shelter from the elements at all times. It must provide protection from the sun, rain, snow, wind, and cold, and from any weather conditions that may occur. The shelter must safely provide heat to the nonhuman primates to prevent the ambient temperature from falling below 45 °F (7.2 °C), except as directed by the attending veterinarian and in accordance with generally accepted professional and husbandry practices.
(c)
Capacity: multiple shelters.
The shelter must be sufficiently large to comfortably provide protection for each nonhuman primate housed in the facility. If aggressive or dominant animals are housed in the facility with other animals there must be multiple shelters, or other means to ensure protection for each nonhuman primate housed in the facility.
(d)
Perimeter fence.
On and after February 15, 1994, an outdoor housing facility must be enclosed by a fence that is of sufficient height to keep unwanted species out. Fences less than 6 feet high must be approved by the Administrator. The fence must be constructed so that it protects nonhuman primates by restricting unauthorized humans, and animals the size of dogs, skunks, and raccoons from going through it or under it and having contact with the nonhuman primates. It must be of sufficient distance from the outside wall or fence of the primary enclosure to prevent physical contact between animals inside the enclosure and outside the perimeter fence. Such fences less than 3 feet in distance from the primary enclosure must be approved by the Administrator. A perimeter fence is not required if:
(1) The outside walls of the primary enclosure are made of a sturdy, durable material such as concrete, wood, plastic, metal, or glass, and are high enough and constructed in a manner that restricts contact with or entry by humans and animals that are outside the housing facility; or
(2) The housing facility is surrounded by a natural barrier that restricts the nonhuman primates to the housing facility and protects them from contact with unauthorized humans and animals that are outside the housing facility, and the Administrator gives written permission.
(e)
Public barriers.
Fixed public exhibits housing nonhuman primates, such as zoos, must have a barrier between the primary enclosure and the public at any time the public is present, in order to restrict physical contact between the public and the nonhuman primates. Nonhuman primates used in trained animal acts or in uncaged public exhibits must be under the direct control and supervision of an experienced handler or trainer at all times when the public is present. Trained nonhuman primates may be allowed physical contact with the public, but only if they are under the direct control and supervision of an experienced
handler or trainer at all times during the contact.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0093)
[56 FR 6495, Feb. 15, 1991, as amended at 85 FR 28799, May 13, 2020]
§ 3.79
Mobile or traveling housing facilities.
(a)
Heating, cooling, and temperature.
Mobile or traveling housing facilities must be sufficiently heated and cooled when necessary to protect nonhuman primates from temperature extremes and to provide for their health and well-being. The ambient temperature in the traveling housing facility must not fall below 45 °F (7.2 °C) for more than 4 consecutive hours when nonhuman primates are present, and must not rise above 85 °F (29.5 °C) for more than 4 consecutive hours when nonhuman primates are present. The ambient temperature must be maintained at a level that ensures the health and well-being of the species housed, as directed by the attending veterinarian, and in accordance with generally accepted professional and husbandry practices.
(b)
Ventilation.
Traveling housing facilities must be sufficiently ventilated at all times when nonhuman primates are present to provide for the health and well-being of nonhuman primates and to minimize odors, drafts, ammonia levels, moisture condensation, and exhaust fumes. Ventilation must be provided by means of windows, doors, vents, fans, or air conditioning. Auxiliary ventilation, such as fans, blowers, or air conditioning, must be provided when the ambient temperature in the traveling housing facility is 85 °F (29.5 °C) or higher.
(c)
Lighting.
Mobile or traveling housing facilities must be lighted well enough to permit routine inspection and cleaning of the facility, and observation of the nonhuman primates. Animal areas must be provided a regular diurnal lighting cycle of either natural or artificial light. Lighting must be uniformly diffused throughout animal facilities and provide sufficient illumination to aid in maintaining good housekeeping practices, adequate cleaning, adequate inspection of animals, and for the well-being of the animals. Primary enclosures must be placed in the housing facility so as to protect the nonhuman primates from excessive light.
(d)
Public barriers.
There must be a barrier between a mobile or traveling housing facility and the public at any time the public is present, in order to restrict physical contact between the nonhuman primates and the public. Nonhuman primates used in traveling exhibits, trained animal acts, or in uncaged public exhibits must be under the direct control and supervision of an experienced handler or trainer at all times when the public is present. Trained nonhuman primates may be allowed physical contact with the public, but only if they are under the direct control and supervision of an experienced handler or trainer at all times during the contact.
§ 3.80
Primary enclosures.
Primary enclosures for nonhuman primates must meet the following minimum requirements:
(a)
General requirements.
(1) Primary enclosures must be designed and constructed of suitable materials so that they are structurally sound for the species of nonhuman primates contained in them. They must be kept in good repair.
(2) Primary enclosures must be constructed and maintained so that they:
(i) Have no sharp points or edges that could injure the nonhuman primates;
(ii) Protect the nonhuman primates from injury;
(iii) Contain the nonhuman primates securely and prevent accidental opening of the enclosure, including opening by the animal;
(iv) Keep other unwanted animals from entering the enclosure or having physical contact with the nonhuman primates;
(v) Enable the nonhuman primates to remain dry and clean;
(vi) Provide shelter and protection from extreme temperatures and weather conditions that may be uncomfortable or hazardous to the species of nonhuman primate contained;
(vii) Provide sufficient shade to shelter all the nonhuman primates housed in the primary enclosure at one time;
(viii) Provide the nonhuman primates with easy and convenient access to clean food and water;
(ix) Enable all surfaces in contact with nonhuman primates to be readily cleaned and sanitized in accordance with § 3.84(b)(3) of this subpart, or replaced when worn or soiled;
(x) Have floors that are constructed in a manner that protects the nonhuman primates from injuring themselves; and
(xi) Provide sufficient space for the nonhuman primates to make normal postural adjustments with freedom of movement.
(b)
Minimum space requirements.
Primary enclosures must meet the minimum space requirements provided in this subpart. These minimum space requirements must be met even if perches, ledges, swings, or other suspended fixtures are placed in the enclosure. Low perches and ledges that do not allow the space underneath them to be comfortably occupied by the animal will be counted as part of the floor space.
(1) The minimum space that must be provided to
each
nonhuman primate, whether housed individually or with other nonhuman primates, will be determined by the typical weight of animals of its species, except for brachiating species and great apes
3
and will be calculated by using the following table:
4
3
The different species of nonhuman primates are divided into six weight groups for determining minimum space requirements, except that all brachiating species of any weight are grouped together since they require additional space to engage in species-typical behavior. The grouping provided is based upon the typical weight for various species and not on changes associated with obesity, aging, or pregnancy. These conditions will not be considered in determining a nonhuman primate's weight group unless the animal is obviously unable to make normal postural adjustments and movements within the primary enclosure. Different species of prosimians vary in weight and should be grouped with their appropriate weight group. They have not been included in the weight table since different species typically fall into different weight groups. Infants and juveniles of certain species are substantially lower in weight than adults of those species and require the minimum space requirements of lighter weight species, unless the animal is obviously unable to make normal postural adjustments and movements within the primary enclosure.
4
Examples of the kinds of nonhuman primates typically included in each age group are:
Group 1—marmosets, tamarins, and infants (less than 6 months of age) of various species.
Group 2—capuchins, squirrel monkeys and similar size species, and juveniles (6 months to 3 years of age) of various species.
Group 3—macaques and African species.
Group 4—male macaques and large African species.
Group 5—baboons and nonbrachiating species larger than 33.0 lbs. (15 kg.).
Group 6—great apes over 55.0 lbs. (25 kg.), except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and brachiating species.
Group
Weight
lbs.
(kg.)
Floor area/animal
ft.
2
(m
2
)
Height
in.
(cm.)
1
under 2.2
(under 1)
1.6
(0.15)
20
(50.8)
2
2.2-6.6
(1-3)
3.0
(0.28)
30
(76.2)
3
6.6-22.0
(3-10)
4.3
(0.40)
30
(76.2)
4
22.0-33.0
(10-15)
6.0
(0.56)
32
(81.28)
5
33.0-55.0
(15-25)
8.0
(0.74)
36
(91.44)
6
over 55.0
(over 25)
25.1
(2.33)
84
(213.36)
(2) Dealers. exhibitors, and research facilities, including Federal research facilities, must provide great apes weighing over 110 lbs. (50 kg) an additional volume of space in excess of that required for Group 6 animals as set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, to allow for normal postural adjustments.
(3) In the case of research facilities, any exemption from these standards must be required by a research proposal or in the judgment of the attending veterinarian and must be approved
by the Committee. In the case of dealers and exhibitors, any exemption from these standards must be required in the judgment of the attending veterinarian and approved by the Administrator.
(4) When more than one nonhuman primate is housed in a primary enclosure, the minimum space requirement for the enclosure is the sum of the minimum floor area space required for each individual nonhuman primate in the table in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and the minimum height requirement for the largest nonhuman primate housed in the enclosure. Provided however, that mothers with infants less than 6 months of age may be maintained together in primary enclosures that meet the floor area space and height requirements of the mother.
(c) Innovative primary enclosures not precisely meeting the floor area and height requirements provided in paragraph (b) of this section, but that do provide nonhuman primates with a sufficient volume of space and the opportunity to express species-typical behavior, may be used at research facilities when approved by the Committee, and by dealers and exhibitors when approved by the Administrator.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0093)
[56 FR 6495, Feb. 15, 1991, as amended at 83 FR 25555, June 4, 2018]
§ 3.81
Environment enhancement to promote psychological well-being.
Dealers, exhibitors, and research facilities must develop, document, and follow an appropriate plan for environment enhancement adequate to promote the psychological well-being of nonhuman primates. The plan must be in accordance with the currently accepted professional standards as cited in appropriate professional journals or reference guides, and as directed by the attending veterinarian. This plan must be made available to APHIS upon request, and, in the case of research facilities, to officials of any pertinent funding agency. The plan, at a minimum, must address each of the following:
(a)
Social grouping.
The environment enhancement plan must include specific provisions to address the social needs of nonhuman primates of species known to exist in social groups in nature. Such specific provisions must be in accordance with currently accepted professional standards, as cited in appropriate professional journals or reference guides, and as directed by the attending veterinarian. The plan may provide for the following exceptions:
(1) If a nonhuman primate exhibits vicious or overly aggressive behavior, or is debilitated as a result of age or other conditions (e.g., arthritis), it should be housed separately;
(2) Nonhuman primates that have or are suspected of having a contagious disease must be isolated from healthy animals in the colony as directed by the attending veterinarian. When an entire group or room of nonhuman primates is known to have or believed to be exposed to an infectious agent, the group may be kept intact during the process of diagnosis, treatment, and control.
(3) Nonhuman primates may not be housed with other species of primates or animals unless they are compatible, do not prevent access to food, water, or shelter by individual animals. and are not known to be hazardous to the health and well-being of each other. Compatibility of nonhuman primates must be determined in accordance with generally accepted professional practices and actual observations, as directed by the attending veterinarian, to ensure that the nonhuman primates are in fact compatible. Individually housed nonhuman primates must be able to see and hear nonhuman primates of their own or compatible species unless the attending veterinarian determines that it would endanger their health, safety, or well-being.
(b)
Environmental enrichment.
The physical environment in the primary enclosures must be enriched by providing means of expressing noninjurious species-typical activities. Species differences should be considered when determining the type or methods of enrichment. Examples of environmental enrichments include providing perches, swings, mirrors, and other increased cage complexities; providing objects to manipulate; varied food items; using foraging or task-oriented feeding methods; and providing interaction with the
care giver or other familiar and knowledgeable person consistent with personnel safety precautions.
(c)
Special considerations.
Certain nonhuman primates must be provided special attention regarding enhancement of their environment, based on the needs of the individual species and in accordance with the instructions of the attending veterinarian. Nonhuman primates requiring special attention are the following:
(1) Infants and young juveniles;
(2) Those that show signs of being in psychological distress through behavior or appearance;
(3) Those used in research for which the Committee-approved protocol requires restricted activity;
(4) Individually housed nonhuman primates that are unable to see and hear nonhuman primates of their own or compatible species; and
(5) Great apes weighing over 110 lbs. (50 kg). Dealers, exhibitors, and research facilities must include in the environment enhancement plan special provisions for great apes weighing over 110 lbs. (50 kg), including additional opportunities to express species-typical behavior.
(d)
Restraint devices.
Nonhuman primates must not be maintained in restraint devices unless required for health reasons as determined by the attending veterinarian or by a research proposal approved by the Committee at research facilities. Maintenance under such restraint must be for the shortest period possible. In instances where long-term (more than 12 hours) restraint is required, the nonhuman primate must be provided the opportunity daily for unrestrained activity for at least one continuous hour during the period of restraint, unless continuous restraint is required by the research proposal approved by the Committee at research facilities.
(e)
Exemptions.
(1) The attending veterinarian may exempt an individual nonhuman primate from participation in the environment enhancement plan because of its health or condition, or in consideration of its well-being. The basis of the exemption must be recorded by the attending veterinarian for each exempted nonhuman primate. Unless the basis for the exemption is a permanent condition, the exemption must be reviewed at least every 30 days by the attending veterinarian.
(2) For a research facility, the Committee may exempt an individual nonhuman primate from participation in some or all of the otherwise required environment enhancement plans for scientific reasons set forth in the research proposal. The basis of the exemption shall be documented in the approved proposal and must be reviewed at appropriate intervals as determined by the Committee, but not less than annually.
(3) Records of any exemptions must be maintained by the dealer, exhibitor, or research facility and must be made available to USDA officials or officials of any pertinent funding Federal agency upon request.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0093)

# Animal Health and Husbandry Standards
§ 3.82
Feeding.
(a) The diet for nonhuman primates must be appropriate for the species, size, age, and condition of the animal, and for the conditions in which the nonhuman primate is maintained, according to generally accepted professional and husbandry practices and nutritional standards. The food must be clean, wholesome, and palatable to the animals. It must be of sufficient quantity and have sufficient nutritive value to maintain a healthful condition and weight range of the animal and to meet its normal daily nutritional requirements.
(b) Nonhuman primates must be fed at least once each day except as otherwise might be required to provide adequate veterinary care. Infant and juvenile nonhuman primates must be fed as often as necessary in accordance with generally accepted professional and husbandry practices and nutritional standards, based upon the animals' age and condition.
(c) Food and food receptacles, if used, must be readily accessible to all the nonhuman primates being fed. If members of dominant nonhuman primate or other species are fed together with other nonhuman primates, multiple
feeding sites must be provided. The animals must be observed to determine that all receive a sufficient quantity of food.
(d) Food and food receptacles, if used, must be located so as to minimize any risk of contamination by excreta and pests. Food receptacles must be kept clean and must be sanitized in accordance with the procedures listed in § 3.84(b)(3) of this subpart at least once every 2 weeks. Used food receptacles must be sanitized before they can be used to provide food to a different nonhuman primate or social grouping of nonhuman primates. Measures must be taken to ensure there is no molding, deterioration, contamination, or caking or wetting of food placed in self-feeders.
§ 3.83
Watering.
Potable water must be provided in sufficient quantity to every nonhuman primate housed at the facility. If potable water is not continually available to the nonhuman primates, it must be offered to them as often as necessary to ensure their health and well-being, but no less than twice daily for at least l hour each time, unless otherwise required by the attending veterinarian, or as required by the research proposal approved by the Committee at research facilities. Water receptacles must be kept clean and sanitized in accordance with methods provided in § 3.84(b)(3) of this subpart at least once every 2 weeks or as often as necessary to keep them clean and free from contamination. Used water receptacles must be sanitized before they can be used to provide water to a different nonhuman primate or social grouping of nonhuman primates.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0093)
§ 3.84
Cleaning, sanitization, housekeeping, and pest control.
(a)
Cleaning of primary enclosures.
Excreta and food waste must be removed from inside each indoor primary enclosure daily and from underneath them as often as necessary to prevent an excessive accumulation of feces and food waste, to prevent the nonhuman primates from becoming soiled, and to reduce disease hazards, insects, pests, and odors. Dirt floors, floors with absorbent bedding, and planted areas in primary enclosures must be spot-cleaned with sufficient frequency to ensure all animals the freedom to avoid contact with excreta, or as often as necessary to reduce disease hazards, insects, pests, and odors. When steam or water is used to clean the primary enclosure, whether by hosing, flushing, or other methods, nonhuman primates must be removed, unless the enclosure is large enough to ensure the animals will not be harmed, wetted, or distressed in the process. Perches, bars, and shelves must be kept clean and replaced when worn. If the species of the nonhuman primates housed in the primary enclosure engages in scent marking, hard surfaces in the primary enclosure must be spot-cleaned daily.
(b)
Sanitization of primary enclosures and food and water receptacles.
(1) A used primary enclosure must be sanitized in accordance with this section before it can be used to house another nonhuman primate or group of nonhuman primates.
(2) Indoor primary enclosures must be sanitized at least once every 2 weeks and as often as necessary to prevent an excessive accumulation of dirt, debris, waste, food waste, excreta, or disease hazard, using one of the methods prescribed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. However, if the species of nonhuman primates housed in the primary enclosure engages in scent marking, the primary enclosure must be sanitized at regular intervals determined in accordance with generally accepted professional and husbandry practices.
(3) Hard surfaces of primary enclosures and food and water receptacles must be sanitized using one of the following methods:
(i) Live steam under pressure;
(ii) Washing with hot water (at least 180 °F (82.2 °C)) and soap or detergent, such as in a mechanical cage washer;
(iii) Washing all soiled surfaces with appropriate detergent solutions or disinfectants, or by using a combination detergent/disinfectant product that accomplishes the same purpose, with a thorough cleaning of the surfaces to remove organic material, so as to remove
all organic material and mineral buildup, and to provide sanitization followed by a clean water rinse.
(4) Primary enclosures containing material that cannot be sanitized using the methods provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, such as sand, gravel, dirt, absorbent bedding, grass, or planted areas, must be sanitized by removing the contaminated material as necessary to prevent odors, diseases, pests, insects, and vermin infestation.
(c)
Housekeeping for premises.
Premises where housing facilities are located, including buildings and surrounding grounds, must be kept clean and in good repair in order to protect the nonhuman primates from injury, to facilitate the husbandry practices required in this subpart, and to reduce or eliminate breeding and living areas for rodents, pests, and vermin. Premises must be kept free of accumulations of trash, junk, waste, and discarded matter. Weeds, grass, and bushes must be controlled so as to facilitate cleaning of the premises and pest control.
(d)
Pest control.
An effective program for control of insects, external parasites affecting nonhuman primates, and birds and mammals that are pests, must be established and maintained so as to promote the health and well-being of the animals and reduce contamination by pests in animal areas.
§ 3.85
Employees.
Every person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3) maintaining nonhuman primates must have enough employees to carry out the level of husbandry practices and care required in this subpart. The employees who provide husbandry practices and care, or handle nonhuman primates, must be trained and supervised by an individual who has the knowledge, background, and experience in proper husbandry and care of nonhuman primates to supervise others. The employer must be certain that the supervisor can perform to these standards.

# Transportation Standards
§ 3.86
Consignments to carriers and intermediate handlers.
(a) Carriers and intermediate handlers must not accept a nonhuman primate for transport in commerce more than 4 hours before the scheduled departure time of the primary conveyance on which the animal is to be transported. However, a carrier or intermediate handler may agree with anyone consigning a nonhuman primate to extend this time by up to 2 hours.
(b) Carriers and intermediate handlers must not accept a nonhuman primate for transport in commerce unless they are provided with the name, address, telephone number, and telex number, if applicable, of the consignee.
(c) Carriers and intermediate handlers must not accept a nonhuman primate for transport in commerce unless the consignor certifies in writing to the carrier or intermediate handler that the nonhuman primate was offered food and water during the 4 hours before delivery to the carrier or intermediate handler. The certification must be securely attached to the outside of the primary enclosure in a manner that makes it easily noticed and read. Instructions for no food or water are not acceptable unless directed by the attending veterinarian. Instructions must be in compliance with § 3.89 of this subpart. The certification must include the following information for each nonhuman primate:
(1) The consignor's name and address;
(2) The species of nonhuman primate;
(3) The time and date the animal was last fed and watered and the specific instructions for the next feeding(s) and watering(s) for a 24-hour period; and
(4) The consignor's signature and the date and time the certification was signed.
(d) Carriers and intermediate handlers must not accept a nonhuman primate for transport in commerce unless the primary enclosure meets the requirements of § 3.87 of this subpart. A carrier or intermediate handler must not accept a nonhuman primate for transport if the primary enclosure is obviously defective or damaged and
cannot reasonably be expected to safely and comfortably contain the nonhuman primate without suffering or injury.
(e) Carriers and intermediate handlers must not accept a nonhuman primate for transport in commerce unless their animal holding area facilities meet the minimum temperature requirements provided in §§ 3.91 and 3.92 of this subpart, or unless the consignor provides them with a certificate signed by a veterinarian and dated no more than 10 days before delivery of the animal to the carrier or intermediate handler for transport in commerce, certifying that the animal is acclimated to temperatures lower than those that are required in §§ 3.91 and 3.92 of this subpart. Even if the carrier or intermediate handler receives this certification, the temperatures the nonhuman primate is exposed to while in the carrier's or intermediate handler's custody must not be lower than the minimum temperature specified by the veterinarian in accordance with paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and must be reasonably within the generally and professionally accepted temperature range for the nonhuman primate, as determined by the veterinarian, considering its age, condition, and species. A copy of the certification must accompany the nonhuman primate to its destination and must include the following information for each primary enclosure:
(1) The consignor's name and address;
(2) The number of nonhuman primates contained in the primary enclosure;
(3) The species of nonhuman primate contained in the primary enclosure;
(4) A statement by a veterinarian that to the best of his or her knowledge, each of the nonhuman primates contained in the primary enclosure is acclimated to air temperatures lower than 50 °F (10 °C), but not lower than a minimum temperature specified on the certificate based on the generally and professionally accepted temperature range for the nonhuman primate, considering its age, condition, and species; and
(5) The veterinarian's signature and the date the certification was signed.
(f) When a primary enclosure containing a nonhuman primate has arrived at the animal holding area of a terminal facility after transport, the carrier or intermediate handler must attempt to notify the consignee upon arrival and at least once in every 6-hour period after arrival. The time, date, and method of all attempted notifications and the actual notification of the consignee, and the name of the person who notifies or attempts to notify the consignee must be written either on the carrier's or intermediate handler's copy of the shipping document or on the copy that accompanies the primary enclosure. If the consignee cannot be notified within 24 hours after the nonhuman primate has arrived at the terminal facility, the carrier or intermediate handler must return the animal to the consignor or to whomever the consignor designates. If the consignee is notified of the arrival and does not take physical delivery of the nonhuman primate within 48 hours after arrival of the nonhuman primate, the carrier or intermediate handler must return the animal to the consignor or to whomever the consignor designates. The carrier or intermediate handler must continue to provide proper care, feeding, and housing to the nonhuman primate, and maintain the nonhuman primate in accordance with generally accepted professional and husbandry practices until the consignee accepts delivery of the nonhuman primate or until it is returned to the consignor or to whomever the consignor designates. The carrier or intermediate handler must obligate the consignor to reimburse the carrier or intermediate handler for the cost of return transportation and care.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0093)
§ 3.87
Primary enclosures used to transport nonhuman primates.
Any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3) must not transport or deliver for transport in commerce a nonhuman primate unless it is contained in a primary enclosure, such as a compartment, transport cage, carton, or crate, and the following requirements are met:
(a)
Construction of primary enclosures.
Primary enclosures used to transport nonhuman primates may be connected or attached to each other and must be constructed so that:
(1) The primary enclosure is strong enough to contain the nonhuman primate securely and comfortably and to withstand the normal rigors of transportation;
(2) The interior of the enclosure has no sharp points or edges and no protrusions that could injure the animal contained in it;
(3) The nonhuman primate is at all times securely contained within the enclosure and cannot put any part of its body outside the enclosure in a way that could result in injury to the animal, or to persons or animals nearby;
(4) The nonhuman primate can be easily and quickly removed from the enclosure in an emergency;
(5) The doors or other closures that provide access into the enclosure are secured with animal-proof devices that prevent accidental opening of the enclosure, including opening by the nonhuman primate;
(6) Unless the enclosure is permanently affixed to the conveyance, adequate devices such as handles or handholds are provided on its exterior, and enable the enclosure to be lifted without tilting it, and ensure that anyone handling the enclosure will not come into physical contact with the animal contained inside;
(7) Any material, treatment, paint, preservative, or other chemical used in or on the enclosure is nontoxic to the animal and not harmful to the health or well-being of the animal;
(8) Proper ventilation is provided to the nonhuman primate in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section;
(9) Ventilation openings are covered with bars, wire mesh, or smooth expanded metal having air spaces; and
(10) The primary enclosure has a solid, leak-proof bottom, or a removable, leak-proof collection tray under a slatted or wire mesh floor that prevents seepage of waste products, such as excreta and body fluids, outside of the enclosure. If a slatted or wire mesh floor is used in the enclosure, it must be designed and constructed so that the animal cannot put any part of its body between the slats or through the holes in the mesh. It must contain enough previously unused litter to absorb and cover excreta. The litter must be of a suitably absorbent material that is safe and nontoxic to the nonhuman primate and is appropriate for the species transported in the primary enclosure.
(b)
Cleaning of primary enclosures.
A primary enclosure used to hold or transport nonhuman primates in commerce must be cleaned and sanitized before each use in accordance with the methods provided in § 3.84(b)(3) of this subpart.
(c)
Ventilation.
(1) If the primary enclosure is movable, ventilation openings must be constructed in one of the following ways:
(i) If ventilation openings are located on two opposite walls of the primary enclosure, the openings on each wall must be at least 16 percent of the total surface area of each such wall and be located above the midline of the enclosure; or
(ii) If ventilation openings are located on all four walls of the primary enclosure, the openings on every wall must be at least 8 percent of the total surface area of each such wall and be located above the midline of the enclosure.
(2) Unless the primary enclosure is permanently affixed to the conveyance, projecting rims or similar devices must be located on the exterior of each enclosure wall having a ventilation opening, in order to prevent obstruction of the openings. The projecting rims or similar devices must be large enough to provide a minimum air circulation space of 0.75 inches (1.9 centimeters) between the primary enclosure and anything the enclosure is placed against.
(3) If a primary enclosure is permanently affixed to the primary conveyance so that there is only a front ventilation opening for the enclosure, the primary enclosure must be affixed to the primary conveyance in such a way that the front ventilation opening cannot be blocked, and the front ventilation opening must open directly to an unobstructed aisle or passageway inside of the conveyance. The ventilation opening must be at least 90 percent of the total area of the front wall of the
enclosure, and must be covered with bars, wire mesh, or smooth expanded metal having air spaces.
(d)
Compatibility.
(1) Only one live nonhuman primate may be transported in a primary enclosure, except as follows:
(i) A mother and her nursing infant may be transported together;
(ii) An established male-female pair or family group may be transported together, except that a female in estrus must not be transported with a male nonhuman primate;
(iii) A compatible pair of juveniles of the same species that have not reached puberty may be transported together.
(2) Nonhuman primates of different species must not be transported in adjacent or connecting primary enclosures.
(e)
Space requirements.
Primary enclosures used to transport nonhuman primates must be large enough so that each animal contained in the primary enclosure has enough space to turn around freely in a normal manner and to sit in an upright, hands down position without its head touching the top of the enclosure. However, certain larger species may be restricted in their movements, in accordance with professionally accepted standards of care, when greater freedom of movement would be dangerous to the animal, its handler, or to other persons.
(f)
Marking and labeling.
Primary enclosures, other than those that are permanently affixed to a conveyance, must be clearly marked in English on the top and on one or more sides with the words “Wild Animals,” or “Live Animals,” in letters at least 1 inch (2.5 cm.) high, and with arrows or other markings to indicate the correct upright position of the primary enclosure. Permanently affixed primary enclosures must be clearly marked in English with the words “Wild Animals” or “Live Animals,” in the same manner.
(g)
Accompanying documents and records.
Shipping documents that must accompany shipments of nonhuman primates may be held by the operator of the primary conveyance, for surface transportation only, or must be securely attached in a readily accessible manner to the outside of any primary enclosure that is part of the shipment, in a manner that allows them to be detached for examination and securely reattached, such as in a pocket or sleeve. Instructions for administration of drugs, medication, and other special care must be attached to each primary enclosure in a manner that makes them easy to notice, to detach for examination, and to reattach securely. Food and water instructions must be attached in accordance with § 3.86(c) of this subpart.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0093)
§ 3.88
Primary conveyances (motor vehicle, rail, air, and marine).
(a) The animal cargo space of primary conveyances used to transport nonhuman primates must be designed, constructed, and maintained in a manner that at all times protects the health and well-being of the animals transported in it, ensures their safety and comfort, and prevents the entry of engine exhaust from the primary conveyance during transportation.
(b) The animal cargo space must have a supply of air that is sufficient for the normal breathing of all the animals being transported in it.
(c) Each primary enclosure containing nonhuman primates must be positioned in the animal cargo space in a manner that provides protection from the elements and that allows each nonhuman primate enough air for normal breathing.
(d) During air transportation, the ambient temperature inside a primary conveyance used to transport nonhuman primates must be maintained at a level that ensures the health and well-being of the species housed, in accordance with generally accepted professional and husbandry practices, at all times a nonhuman primate is present.
(e) During surface transportation, the ambient temperature inside a primary conveyance used to transport nonhuman primates must be maintained between 45 °F (7.2 °C) and 85 °F (30 °C) at all times a nonhuman primate is present.
(f) A primary enclosure containing a nonhuman primate must be placed far enough away from animals that are
predators or natural enemies of nonhuman primates, whether the other animals are in primary enclosures or not, so that the nonhuman primate cannot touch or see the other animals.
(g) Primary enclosures must be positioned in the primary conveyance in a manner that allows the nonhuman primates to be quickly and easily removed from the primary conveyance in an emergency.
(h) The interior of the animal cargo space must be kept clean
(i) Nonhuman primates must not be transported with any material, substance (e.g., dry ice), or device in a manner that may reasonably be expected to harm the nonhuman primates or cause inhumane conditions.
§ 3.89
Food and water requirements.
(a) Each nonhuman primate that is 1 year of age or more must be offered food
5
at least once every 24 hours. Each nonhuman primate that is less than 1 year of age must be offered food at least once every 12 hours. Each nonhuman primate must be offered potable water at least once every 12 hours. These time periods apply to dealers, exhibitors, and research facilities, including Federal research facilities, who transport nonhuman primates in their own primary conveyances, starting from the time the nonhuman primate was last offered food and potable water before transportation was begun. These time periods apply to carriers and intermediate handlers starting from the date and time stated on the certification provided under § 3.86(c) of this subpart. Each nonhuman primate must be offered food and potable water within 4 hours before being transported in commerce. Consignors who are subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3) must certify that each nonhuman primate was offered food and potable water within the 4 hours preceding delivery of the nonhuman primate to a carrier or intermediate handler for transportation in commerce, and must certify the date and time the food and potable water was offered, in accordance with § 3.86(c) of this subpart.
5
Proper food for purposes of this section is described in § 3.82 of this subpart, with the necessities and circumstances of the mode of travel taken into account.
(b) Any dealer, exhibitor, or research facility, including a Federal research facility, offering a nonhuman primate to a carrier or intermediate handler for transportation in commerce must securely attach to the outside of the primary enclosure used for transporting the nonhuman primate, written instructions for a 24-hour period for the in-transit food and water requirements of the nonhuman primate(s) contained in the enclosure. The instructions must be attached in a manner that makes them easily noticed and read.
(c) Food and water receptacles must be securely attached inside the primary enclosure and placed so that the receptacles can be filled from outside of the enclosure without opening the door. Food and water receptacles must be designed, constructed, and installed so that a nonhuman primate cannot leave the primary enclosure through the food or water opening.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0093)
§ 3.90
Care in transit.
(a)
Surface transportation (ground and water).
Any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3) transporting nonhuman primates in commerce must ensure that the operator of the conveyance or a person accompanying the operator of the conveyance observes the nonhuman primates as often as circumstances allow, but not less than once every 4 hours, to make sure that they have sufficient air for normal breathing, that the ambient temperature is within the limits provided in § 3.88(d) of this subpart, and that all other applicable standards of this subpart are being complied with. The regulated person transporting the nonhuman primates must ensure that the operator or the person accompanying the operator determines whether any of the nonhuman primates are in obvious physical distress, and obtains any veterinary care needed for the nonhuman primates at the closest available veterinary facility.
(b)
Air transportation.
During air transportation of nonhuman primates,
it is the responsibility of the carrier to observe the nonhuman primates as frequently as circumstances allow, but not less than once every 4 hours if the animal cargo area is accessible during flight. If the animal cargo area is not accessible during flight, the carrier must observe the nonhuman primates whenever they are loaded and unloaded and whenever the animal cargo space is otherwise accessible to make sure that the nonhuman primates have sufficient air for normal breathing, that the ambient temperature is within the limits provided in § 3.88(d) of this subpart, and that all other applicable standards of this subpart are being complied with. The carrier must determine whether any of the nonhuman primates is in obvious physical distress, and arrange for any needed veterinary care for the nonhuman primates as soon as possible.
(c) If a nonhuman primate is obviously ill, injured, or in physical distress, it must not be transported in commerce, except to receive veterinary care for the condition.
(d) During transportation in commerce, a nonhuman primate must not be removed from its primary enclosure unless it is placed in another primary enclosure or a facility that meets the requirements of § 3.80 or § 3.87 of this subpart. Only persons who are experienced and authorized by the shipper, or authorized by the consignor or the consignee upon delivery, if the animal is consigned for transportation, may remove nonhuman primates from their primary enclosure during transportation in commerce, unless required for the health or well-being of the animal.
(e) The transportation regulations contained in this subpart must be complied with until a consignee takes physical delivery of the animal if the animal is consigned for transportation, or until the animal is returned to the consignor.
§ 3.91
Terminal facilities.
(a)
Placement.
Any persons subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts l, 2, and 3) must not commingle shipments of nonhuman primates with inanimate cargo or with other animals in animal holding areas of terminal facilities. Nonhuman primates must not be placed near any other animals, including other species of nonhuman primates, and must not be able to touch or see any other animals, including other species of nonhuman primates.
(b)
Cleaning, sanitization, and pest control.
All animal holding areas of terminal facilities must be cleaned and sanitized in a manner prescribed in § 3.84(b)(3) of this subpart, as often as necessary to prevent an accumulation of debris or excreta and to minimize vermin infestation and disease hazards. Terminal facilities must follow an effective program in all animal holding areas for the control of insects, ectoparasites, and birds and mammals that are pests of nonhuman primates.
(c)
Ventilation.
Ventilation must be provided in any animal holding area in a terminal facility containing nonhuman primates by means of windows, doors, vents, or air conditioning. The air must be circulated by fans, blowers, or air conditioning so as to minimize drafts, odors, and moisture condensation. Auxiliary ventilation, such as exhaust fans, vents, fans, blowers, or air conditioning, must be used in any animal holding area containing nonhuman primates when the ambient temperature is 85 °F (29.5 °C) or higher.
(d)
Temperature.
The ambient temperature in an animal holding area containing nonhuman primates must not fall below 45 °F (7.2 °C) or rise above 85 °F (29.5 °C) for more than four consecutive hours at any time nonhuman primates are present. The ambient temperature must be measured in the animal holding area by the carrier, intermediate handler, or a person transporting nonhuman primates who is subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3), outside any primary enclosure containing a nonhuman primate at a point not more than 3 feet (0.91 m.) away from an outside wall of the primary enclosure, on a level that is even with the enclosure and approximately midway up the side of the enclosure.
(e)
Shelter.
Any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts l, 2, and 3) holding a nonhuman primate in an animal holding area of a terminal facility must provide the following:
(1)
Shelter from sunlight and extreme heat.
Shade must be provided that is sufficient to protect the nonhuman primate from the direct rays of the sun.
(2)
Shelter from rain or snow.
Sufficient protection must be provided to allow nonhuman primates to remain dry during rain, snow, and other precipitation.
(f)
Duration.
The length of time any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3) can hold a nonhuman primate in an animal holding area of a terminal facility upon arrival is the same as that provided in § 3.86(f) of this subpart.
§ 3.92
Handling.
(a) Any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (9 CFR parts 1, 2, and 3) who moves (including loading and unloading) nonhuman primates within, to, or from the animal holding area of a terminal facility or a primary conveyance must do so as quickly and efficiently as possible, and must provide the following during movement of the nonhuman primate:
(1)
Shelter from sunlight and extreme heat.
Sufficient shade must be provided to protect the nonhuman primate from the direct rays of the sun. A nonhuman primate must not be exposed to an ambient temperature above 85 °F (29.5 °C) for a period of more than 45 minutes while being moved to or from a primary conveyance or a terminal facility, The ambient temperature must be measured in the manner provided in § 3.91(d) of this subpart.
(2)
Shelter from rain or snow.
Sufficient protection must be provided to allow nonhuman primates to remain dry during rain, snow, and other precipitation.
(3)
Shelter from cold temperatures.
Transporting devices on which nonhuman primates are placed to move them must be covered to protect the animals when the outdoor temperature falls below 45 °F (7.2 °C). A nonhuman primate must not be exposed to an ambient air temperature below 45 °F (7.2 °C) for a period of more than 45 minutes, unless it is accompanied by a certificate of acclimation to lower temperatures as provided in § 3.86(e) of this subpart. The ambient temperature must be measured in the manner provided in § 3.91(d) of this subpart.
(b) Any person handling a primary enclosure containing a nonhuman primate must use care and must avoid causing physical harm or distress to the nonhuman primate.
(1) A primary enclosure containing a nonhuman primate must not be placed on unattended conveyor belts or on elevated conveyor belts, such as baggage claim conveyor belts and inclined conveyor ramps that lead to baggage claim areas, at any time; except that a primary enclosure may be placed on inclined conveyor ramps used to load and unload aircraft if an attendant is present at each end of the conveyor belt.
(2) A primary enclosure containing a nonhuman primate must not be tossed, dropped, or needlessly tilted, and must not be stacked in a manner that may reasonably be expected to result in its falling. It must be handled and positioned in the manner that written instructions and arrows on the outside of the primary enclosure indicate.
(c) This section applies to movement of a nonhuman primate from primary conveyance to primary conveyance, within a primary conveyance or terminal facility, and to or from a terminal facility or a primary conveyance.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0093)

# Subpart E—Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment, and Transportation of Marine Mammals

# Source:
44 FR 36874, June 22, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Facilities and Operating Standards
§ 3.100
Special considerations regarding compliance and/or variance.
(a) All persons subject to the Animal Welfare Act who maintain or otherwise handle marine mammals in captivity must comply with the provisions of this subpart, except that they may
apply for and be granted a variance,
6
by the Deputy Administrator, from one or more specified provisions of § 3.104. The provisions of this subpart shall not apply, however, in emergency circumstances where compliance with one or more requirements would not serve the best interest of the marine mammals concerned.
6
Written permission from the Deputy Administrator to operate as a licensee or registrant under the Act without being in full compliance with one or more specified provisions of § 3.104.
(b) An application for a variance must be made to the Deputy Administrator in writing. The request must include:
(1) The species and number of animals involved,
(2) A statement from the attending veterinarian concerning the age and health status of the animals involved, and concerning whether the granting of a variance would be detrimental to the marine mammals involved,
(3) Each provision of the regulations that is not met,
(4) The time period requested for a variance,
(5) The specific reasons why a variance is requested, and
(6) The estimated cost of coming into compliance, if construction is involved.
(c) After receipt of an application for a variance, the Deputy Administrator may require the submission in writing of a report by two experts recommended by the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums and approved by the Deputy Administrator concerning potential adverse impacts on the animals involved or on other matters relating to the effects of the requested variance on the health and well-being of such marine mammals. Such a report will be required only in those cases when the Deputy Administrator determines that such expertise is necessary to determine whether the granting of a variance would cause a situation detrimental to the health and well-being of the marine mammals involved. The cost of such report is to be paid by the applicant.
(d) Variances granted for facilities because of ill or infirm marine mammals that cannot be moved without placing their well-being in jeopardy, or for facilities within 0.3048 meters (1 foot) of compliance with any space requirement may be granted for up to the life of the marine mammals involved. Otherwise, variances shall be granted for a period not exceeding July 30, 1986,
Provided, however,
That under circumstances deemed justified by the Deputy Administrator, a maximum extension of 1 year may be granted to attain full compliance. A written request for the extension must be received by the Deputy Administrator by May 30, 1986. Consideration for extension by the Deputy Administrator will be limited to unforeseen or unusual situations such as when necessary public funds cannot be allocated in an appropriate time frame for a facility to attain full compliance by July 30, 1986.
(e) The Deputy Administrator shall deny any application for a variance if he determines that it is not justified under the circumstances or that allowing it will be detrimental to the health and well-being of the marine mammals involved.
(f) Any facility housing marine mammals that does not meet all of the space requirements as of July 30, 1984, must meet all of the requirements by September 28, 1984, or may operate without meeting such requirements until action is taken on an application for a variance if the application is submitted to the Deputy Administrator on or before September 28, 1984.
(g) A research facility may be granted a variance from specified requirements of this subpart when such variance is necessary for research purposes and is fully explained in the experimental design. Any time limitation stated in this section shall not be applicable in such case.
[49 FR 26681, June 28, 1984; 63 FR 2, Jan. 2, 1998]
§ 3.101
Facilities, general.
(a)
Construction requirements.
(1) Indoor and outdoor housing facilities for marine mammals must be structurally sound and must be maintained in good repair to protect the animals from injury, to contain the animals within the facility, and to restrict the entrance of unwanted animals. Lagoon and similar
natural seawater facilities must maintain effective barrier fences extending above the high tide water level, or other appropriate measures, on all sides of the enclosure not contained by dry land to fulfill the requirements of this section.
(2) All marine mammals must be provided with protection from abuse and harassment by the viewing public by the use of a sufficient number of uniformed or readily identifiable employees or attendants to supervise the viewing public, or by physical barriers, such as fences, walls, glass partitions, or distance, or any combination of these.
(3) All surfaces in a primary enclosure must be constructed of durable, nontoxic materials that facilitate cleaning, and disinfection as appropriate, sufficient to maintain water quality parameters as designated in § 3.106. All surfaces must be maintained in good repair as part of a regular, ongoing maintenance program. All facilities must implement a written protocol on cleaning so that surfaces do not constitute a health hazard to animals.
(4) Facilities that utilize natural water areas, such as tidal basins, bays, or estuaries (subject to natural tidewater action), for housing marine mammals are exempt from the drainage requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(b)
Water and power supply.
Reliable and adequate sources of water and electric power must be provided by the facility housing marine mammals. Written contingency plans must be submitted to and approved by the Deputy Administrator regarding emergency sources of water and electric power in the event of failure of the primary sources, when such failure could reasonably be expected to be detrimental to the good health and well-being of the marine mammals housed in the facility. Contingency plans must include, but not be limited to, specific animal evacuation plans in the event of a disaster and should describe back-up systems and/or arrangements for relocating marine mammals requiring artificially cooled or heated water. If the emergency contingency plan includes release of marine mammals, the plan must include provision for recall training and retrieval of such animals. Facilities handling marine mammals must also comply with the requirements of § 2.134 of this subchapter.
(c)
Drainage.
(1) Adequate drainage must be provided for all primary enclosure pools and must be located so that all of the water contained in such pools may be effectively eliminated when necessary for cleaning the pool or for other purposes. Drainage effluent from primary enclosure pools must be disposed of in a manner that complies with all applicable Federal, State, and local pollution control laws.
(2) Drainage must be provided for primary enclosures and areas immediately surrounding pools. All drain covers and strainers must be securely fastened in order to minimize the potential risk of animal entrapment. Drains must be located so as to rapidly eliminate excess water (except in pools). Drainage effluent must be disposed of in a manner that complies with all applicable Federal, State, and local pollution control laws.
(d)
Storage.
Supplies of food must be stored in facilities that adequately protect such supplies from deterioration, spoilage (harmful microbial growth), and vermin or other contamination. Refrigerators and freezers (or chilled and/or iced coolers for under 12 hours) must be used for perishable food. No substances that are known to be or may be toxic or harmful to marine mammals may be stored or maintained in the marine mammal food storage or preparation areas, except that cleaning agents may be kept in secured cabinets designed and located to prevent food contamination. Food, supplements, and medications may not be used beyond commonly accepted shelf life or date listed on the label.
(e)
Waste disposal.
Provision must be made for the removal and disposal of animal and food wastes, dead animals, trash, and debris. Disposal facilities must be provided and operated in a manner that will minimize odors and the risk of vermin infestation and disease hazards. All waste disposal procedures must comply with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws pertaining to pollution control, protection of the environment, and public health.
(f)
Employee washroom facilities.
Washroom facilities containing basins, sinks, and, as appropriate, showers, must be provided and conveniently located to maintain cleanliness among employees, attendants, and volunteers. These facilities must be cleaned and sanitized daily.
(g)
Enclosure or pool environmental enhancements.
Any nonfood objects provided for the entertainment or stimulation of marine mammals must be of sufficient size and strength to not be ingestible, readily breakable, or likely to cause injury to marine mammals, and be able to be cleaned, sanitized, and/or replaced effectively.
[66 FR 251, Jan. 3, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 76824, Dec. 31, 2012]
§ 3.102
Facilities, indoor.
(a)
Ambient temperature.
The air and water temperatures in indoor facilities shall be sufficiently regulated by heating or cooling to protect the marine mammals from extremes of temperature, to provide for their good health and well-being and to prevent discomfort, in accordance with the currently accepted practices as cited in appropriate professional journals or reference guides, depending upon the species housed therein. Rapid changes in air and water temperatures shall be avoided.
(b)
Ventilation.
Indoor housing facilities shall be ventilated by natural or artificial means to provide a flow of fresh air for the marine mammals and to minimize the accumulation of chlorine fumes, other gases, and objectionable odors. A vertical air space averaging at least 1.83 meters (6 feet) shall be maintained in all primary enclosures housing marine mammals, including pools of water.
(c)
Lighting.
Indoor housing facilities for marine mammals shall have ample lighting, by natural or artificial means, or both, of a quality, distribution, and duration which is appropriate for the species involved. Sufficient lighting must be available to provide uniformly distributed illumination which is adequate to permit routine inspections, observations, and cleaning of all parts of the primary enclosure including any den areas. The lighting shall be designed so as to prevent overexposure of the marine mammals contained therein to excessive illumination.
7
7
Lighting intensity and duration must be consistent with the general well-being and comfort of the animal involved. When possible, it should approximate the lighting conditions encountered by the animal in its natural environment. At no time shall the lighting be such that it will cause the animal discomfort or trauma.
[44 FR 36874, June 22, 1979; 63 FR 2, Jan. 2, 1998]
§ 3.103
Facilities, outdoor.
(a)
Environmental temperatures.
Marine mammals shall not be housed in outdoor facilities unless the air and water temperature ranges which they may encounter during the period they are so housed do not adversely affect their health and comfort. A marine mammal shall not be introduced to an outdoor housing facility until it is acclimated to the air and water temperature ranges which it will encounter therein. The following requirements shall be applicable to all outdoor pools.
(1) The water surface of pools in outdoor primary enclosures housing polar bears and ice or cold water dwelling species of pinnipeds shall be kept sufficiently free of solid ice to allow for entry and exit of the animals.
(2) The water surface of pools in outdoor primary enclosures housing cetaceans and sea otters shall be kept free of ice.
(3) No sirenian or warm water dwelling species of pinnipeds or cetaceans shall be housed in outdoor pools where water temperature cannot be maintained within the temperature range to meet their needs.
(b)
Shelter.
Natural or artificial shelter which is appropriate for the species concerned, when the local climatic conditions are taken into consideration, shall be provided for all marine mammals kept outdoors to afford them protection from the weather or from direct sunlight.
(c)
Perimeter fence.
On and after May 17, 2000, all outdoor housing facilities (
i.e.,
facilities not entirely indoors) must be enclosed by a perimeter fence that is of sufficient height to keep animals and unauthorized persons out.
Fences less than 8 feet high for polar bears or less than 6 feet high for other marine mammals must be approved in writing by the Administrator. The fence must be constructed so that it protects marine mammals by restricting animals and unauthorized persons from going through it or under it and having contact with the marine mammals, and so that it can function as a secondary containment system for the animals in the facility when appropriate. The fence must be of sufficient distance from the outside of the primary enclosure to prevent physical contact between animals inside the enclosure and animals or persons outside the perimeter fence. Such fences less than 3 feet in distance from the primary enclosure must be approved in writing by the Administrator. For natural seawater facilities, such as lagoons, the perimeter fence must prevent access by animals and unauthorized persons to the natural seawater facility from the abutting land, and must encompass the land portion of the facility from one end of the natural seawater facility shoreline as defined by low tide to the other end of the natural seawater facility shoreline defined by low tide. A perimeter fence is not required:
(1) Where the outside walls of the primary enclosure are made of sturdy, durable material, which may include certain types of concrete, wood, plastic, metal, or glass, and are high enough and constructed in a manner that restricts entry by animals and unauthorized persons and the Administrator gives written approval; or
(2) Where the outdoor housing facility is protected by an effective natural barrier that restricts the marine mammals to the facility and restricts entry by animals and unauthorized persons and the Administrator gives written approval; or
(3) Where appropriate alternative security measures are employed and the Administrator gives written approval; or
(4) For traveling facilities where appropriate alternative security measures are employed.
[44 FR 36874, June 22, 1979, as amended at 64 FR 56147, Oct. 18, 1999]
§ 3.104
Space requirements.
(a)
General.
Marine mammals must be housed in primary enclosures that comply with the minimum space requirements prescribed by this part. These enclosures must be constructed and maintained so that the animals contained within are provided sufficient space, both horizontally and vertically, to be able to make normal postural and social adjustments with adequate freedom of movement, in or out of the water. (An exception to these requirements is provided in § 3.110(b) for isolation or separation for medical treatment and/or medical training.) Enclosures smaller than required by the standards may be temporarily used for nonmedical training, breeding, holding, and transfer purposes. If maintenance in such enclosures for nonmedical training, breeding, or holding is to last longer than 2 weeks, such extension must be justified in writing by the attending veterinarian on a weekly basis. If maintenance in such enclosures for transfer is to last longer than 1 week, such extension must be justified in writing by the attending veterinarian on a weekly basis. Any enclosure that does not meet the minimum space requirement for primary enclosures (including, but not limited to, medical pools or enclosures, holding pools or enclosures, and gated side pools smaller than the minimum space requirements) may not be used for permanent housing purposes. Rotating animals between enclosures that meet the minimum space requirements and enclosures that do not is not an acceptable means of complying with the minimum space requirements for primary enclosures.
(b)
Cetaceans.
Primary enclosures housing cetaceans shall contain a pool of water and may consist entirely of a pool of water. In determining the minimum space required in a pool holding cetaceans, four factors must be satisfied. These are MHD, depth, volume, and surface area. For the purposes of this subpart, cetaceans are divided into Group I cetaceans and Group II cetaceans as shown in Table III in this section.
(1)(i)
The required minimum horizontal dimension
(MHD) of a pool for Group I cetaceans shall be 7.32 meters (24.0 feet)
or two times the average adult length of the longest species of Group I cetacean housed therein (as measured in a parallel or horizontal line, from the tip of its upper jaw, or from the most anterior portion of the head in bulbous headed animals, to the notch in the tail fluke
8
), whichever is greater; except that such MHD measurement may be reduced from the greater number by up to 20 percent if the amount of the reduction is added to the MHD at the 90-degree angle and if the minimum volume and surface area requirements are met based on an MHD of 7.32 meters (24.0 feet) or two times the average adult length of the longest species of Group I cetacean housed therein, whichever is greater.
8
The body length of a
Monodon monoceros
(narwhale) is measured from the tip of the upper incisor tooth to the notch in the tail fluke. If the upper incisor is absent or does not extend beyond the front of the head, then it is measured like other cetaceans, from the tip of the upper jaw to the notch in the tail fluke. Immature males should be anticipated to develop the “tusk” (usually left incisor tooth) beginning at sexual maturity.
(ii) The MHD of a pool for Group II cetaceans shall be 7.32 meters (24.0 feet) or four times the average adult length of the longest species of cetacean to be housed therein (as measured in a parallel or horizontal line from the tip of its upper jaw, or from the most anterior portion of the head in bulbous headed animals, to the notch in the tail fluke), whichever is greater; except that such MHD measurement may be reduced from the greater number by up to 20 percent if the amount of the reduction is added to the MHD at the 90-degree angle and if the minimum volume and surface area requirements are met based on an MHD of 7.32 meters (24.0 feet) or four times the average adult length of the longest species of Group II cetacean housed therein, whichever is greater.
(iii) In a pool housing a mixture of Group I and Group II cetaceans, the MHD shall be the largest required for any cetacean housed therein.
(iv) Once the required MHD has been satisfied, the pool size may be required to be adjusted to increase the surface area and volume when cetaceans are added. Examples of MHD and volume requirements for Group I cetaceans are shown in Table I, and for Group II cetaceans in Table II.
Table I—Group I Cetaceans
1
Representative average adult lengths
Meters
Feet
Minimum horizontal dimension (MHD)
Meters
Feet
Minimum required
depth
Meters
Feet
Volume of water required for each additional cetacean in excess of two
Cubic meters
feet
1.68
5.5
7.32
24
1.83
6
8.11
284.95
2.29
7.5
7.32
24
1.83
6
15.07
529.87
2.74
9.0
7.32
24
1.83
6
21.57
763.02
3.05
10.0
7.32
24
1.83
6
26.73
942.00
3.51
11.5
7.32
24
1.83
6
35.40
1,245.79
3.66
12.0
7.32
24
1.83
6
38.49
1,356.48
4.27
14.0
8.53
28
2.13
7
60.97
2,154.04
5.49
18.0
10.97
36
2.74
9
129.65
4,578.12
5.64
18.5
11.28
37
2.82
9.25
140.83
4,970.33
5.79
19.0
11.58
38
2.90
9.50
152.64
5,384.32
6.71
22.0
13.41
44
3.36
11
237.50
8,358.68
6.86
22.5
13.72
45
3.43
11.25
253.42
8,941.64
7.32
24.0
14.63
48
3.66
12
307.89
10,851.84
8.53
28.0
17.07
56
4.27
14
487.78
17,232.32
1
All calculations are rounded off to the nearest hundredth. In converting the length of cetaceans from feet to meters, 1 foot equals .3048 meter. Due to rounding of meter figures as to the length of the cetacean, the correlation of meters to feet in subsequent calculations of MHD and additional volume of water required per cetacean, over two, may vary slightly from a strict feet to meters ratio. Cubic meters is based on: 1 cubic foot = 0.0283 cubic meter.
Table II—Group II Cetaceans
1
Representative average adult length
Meters
Feet
Minimum horizontal dimension (MHD)
Meters
Feet
Minimum required
depth
Meters
Feet
Volume of water required for each additional cetacean in excess of four
Cubic meters
1
Cubic feet
1.52
5.0
7.32
24
1.83
6
13.28
471.00
1.68
5.5
7.32
24
1.83
6
16.22
569.91
1.83
6.0
7.32
24
1.83
6
19.24
678.24
2.13
7.0
8.53
28
1.83
6
26.07
923.16
2.29
7.5
9.14
30
1.83
6
30.13
1,059.75
2.44
8.0
9.75
32
1.83
6
34.21
1,205.76
2.59
8.5
10.36
34
1.83
6
38.55
1,361.19
2.74
9.0
10.97
36
1.83
6
43.14
1,526.04
1
Converting cubic feet to cubic meters is based on: 1 cubic foot = 0.0283 of a cubic meter.
Table III—Average Adult Lengths of Marine Mammals Maintained in Captivity
1
Species
Common name
Average adult length
In meters
In feet
Group I Cetaceans:
Balaenoptera acutorostrata
Minke whale
8.50
27.9
Cephalorhynchus commersonii
Commerson's dolphin
1.52
5.0
Delphinapterus leucas
Beluga whale
4.27
14.0
Monodon monoceros
Narwhale
3.96
13.0
Globicephala melaena
Long-finned pilot whale
5.79
19.0
Globicephala macrorhynchus
Short-finned pilot whale
5.49
18.0
Grampus griseus
Risso's dolphin
3.66
12.0
Orcinus orca
Killer whale
7.32
24.0
Pseudorca carassidens
False killer whale
4.35
14.3
Tursiops truncatus
(Atlantic)
Bottlenose dolphin
2.74
9.0
Tursiops truncatus
(Pacific)
Bottlenose dolphin
3.05
10.0
Inia geoffrensis
Amazon porpoise
2.44
8.0
Phocoena phocoena
Harbor porpoise
1.68
5.5
Pontoporia blainvillei
Franciscana
1.52
5.0
Sotalia fluviatilis
Tucuxi
1.68
5.5
Platanista,
all species
River dolphin
2.44
8.0
Group II Cetaceans:
Delphinus delphis
Common dolphin
2.59
8.5
Feresa attenuata
Pygmy killer whale
2.44
8.0
Kogia breviceps
Pygmy sperm whale
3.96
13.0
Kogia simus
Dwarf sperm whale
2.90
9.5
Lagenorhynchus acutus
Atlantic white-sided dolphin
2.90
9.5
Lagenorhynchus cruciger
Hourglass dolphin
1.70
5.6
Lagenorhynchus obliquidens
Pacific white-sided dolphin
2.29
7.5
Lagenorhynchus albirostris
White-beaked dolphin
2.74
9.0
Lagenorhynchus obscurus
Duskey dolphin
2.13
7.0
Lissodelphis borealis
Northern right whale dolphin
2.74
9.0
Neophocaena phocaenoides
Finless porpoise
1.83
6.0
Peponocephala electra
Melon-headed whale
2.74
9.0
Phocoenoides dalli
Dall's porpoise
2.00
6.5
Stenella longirostris
Spinner dolphin
2.13
7.0
Stenella coeruleoalba
Striped dolphin
2.29
7.5
Stenella attenuata
Spotted dolphin
2.29
7.5
Stenella plagiodon
Spotted dolphin
2.29
7.5
Steno bredanensis
Rough-toothed dolphin
2.44
8.0
1
This table contains the species of marine mammals known by the Department to be presently in captivity or that are likely to become captive in the future. Anyone who is subject to the Animal Welfare Act having species of marine mammals in captivity which are not included in this table should consult the Deputy Administrator with regard to the average adult length of such animals.
Species
Common name
Average adult length
In meters
Male
Female
In feet
Male
Female
Group I Pinnipeds:
Arctocephalus gazella
**
Antarctic Fur Seal
1.80
1.20
5.9
3.9
Arctocephalus tropicalis
**
Amsterdam Island Fur Seal
1.80
1.45
5.9
4.75
Arctocephalus australis
**
South American Fur Seal
1.88
1.42
6.2
4.7
Arctocephalus pusillis
**
Cape Fur Seal
2.73
1.83
8.96
6.0
Callorhinus ursinus
**
Northern Fur Seal
2.20
1.45
7.2
4.75
Eumetopias jubatus
**
Steller's Sea Lion
2.86
2.40
9.4
7.9
Hydrurga leptonyx
Leopard Seal
2.90
3.30
9.5
10.8
Mirounga angustirostris
**
Northern Elephant Seal
3.96
2.49
13.0
8.2
Mirounga leonina
**
Southern Elephant Seal
4.67
2.50
15.3
8.2
Odobenus rosmarus
**
Walrus
3.15
2.60
10.3
8.5
Otaria flavescens
**
South American Sea Lion
2.40
2.00
7.9
6.6
Phoca caspica
Caspian Seal
1.45
1.40
4.75
4.6
Phoca fasciata
Ribbon Seal
1.75
1.68
5.7
5.5
Phoca larga
Harbor Seal
1.70
1.50
5.6
4.9
Phoca vitulina
Habor Seal
1.70
1.50
5.6
4.9
Zalophus californianus
California Sea Lion
2.24
1.75
7.3
5.7
Halichoerus grypus
**
Grar Seal
2.30
1.95
7.5
6.4
Phoca sibirica
Baikal Seal
1.70
1.85
5.6
6.1
Phoca groenlandica
Harp Seal
1.85
1.85
6.1
6.1
Leptonychotes weddelli
**
Weddell Seal
2.90
3.15
9.5
10.3
Lobodon carcinophagus
**
Crabeater Seal
2.21
2.21
7.3
7.3
Ommatophoca rossi
**
Ross Seal
1.99
2.13
6.5
7.0
Group II Pinnipeds:
Erignathus barbatus
Bearded Seal
2.33
2.33
7.6
7.6
Phoca hispida
Ringed Seal
1.35
1.30
4.4
4.3
Cystophora cristata
Hooded Seal
2.60
2.00
8.5
6.6
Note.
**Any Group I animals maintained together will be considered as Group II when the animals maintained together include two or more sexually mature males from species marked with a double asterisk (**) regardless of whether the sexually mature males from the same species.
Species
Common name
Average adult length
In meters
In feet
Sirenia:
Dugong dugong
Dugong
3.35
11.0
Trichechus manatus
West Indian Manatee
3.51
11.5
Trichechus inunguis
Amazon Manatee
2.44
8.0
Mustelidae:
Enhydra lutris
Sea Otter
1.25
4.1
(2)
The minimum depth requirement
for primary enclosure pools for all cetaceans shall be one-half the average adult length of the longest species to be housed therein, regardless of Group I or Group II classification, or 1.83 meters (6.0 feet), whichever is greater, and can be expressed as d = L/2 or 6 feet, whichever is greater. Those parts of the primary enclosure pool which do not meet the minimum depth requirement cannot be included when calculating space requirements for cetaceans.
(3)
Pool volume.
A pool of water housing cetaceans which satisfies the MHD and which meets the minimum depth requirement, will have sufficient volume and surface area to hold up to two Group I cetaceans or up to four Group II cetaceans. If additional cetaceans are to be added to the pool, the volume as well as the surface area may have to be adjusted to allow for additional space necessary for such cetaceans. See Tables I, II, and IV for volumes and surface area requirements. The additional volume needed shall be based on the number and kind of cetaceans housed therein and shall be determined in the following manner.
(i) The minimum volume of water required for up to two Group I cetaceans is based upon the following formula:
EC14NO91.010
When there are more than two Group I cetaceans housed in a primary enclosure pool, the additional volume of water required for each additional
Group I cetacean in excess of two is based on the following formula:
EC14NO91.011
See Table I for required volumes.
(ii) The minimum volume of water required for up to four Group II cetaceans is based upon the following formula:
EC14NO91.012
When there are more than four Group II cetaceans housed in a primary enclosure pool, the additional volume of water required for each additional Group II cetacean in excess of four is based on the following formula:
Volume = (Average Adult Length)
2
× 3.14 × depth
See Table II for required volumes.
(iii) When a mixture of both Group I and Group II cetaceans are housed together, the MHD must be satisfied as stated in § 3.104(b)(1), and the minimum depth must be satisfied as stated in § 3.104(b)(2). Based on these figures, the resulting volume must then be calculated
EC14NO91.013
Then the volume necessary for the cetaceans to be housed in the pool must be calculated (by obtaining the sum of the volumes required for each animal). If this volume is greater than that obtained by using the MHD and depth figures, then the additional volume required may be added by enlarging the pool in its lateral dimensions or by increasing its depth, or both. The minimum surface area requirements discussed next must also be satisfied.
(4)(i)
The minimum surface area
requirements for each cetacean housed in a pool, regardless of Group I or Group II classification, are calculated as follows:
EC14NO91.014
In a pool containing more than two Group I cetaceans or more than four Group II cetaceans,
9
the additional surface area which may be required when animals are added must be calculated for each such animal.
9
A pool containing up to two Group I cetaceans or up to four Group II cetaceans which meets the required MHD and depth will have the necessary surface area and volume required for the animals contained therein.
(ii) When a mixture of Group I and Group II cetaceans are to be housed in a pool, the required MHD, depth, and volume must be met. Then the required surface area must be determined for each animal in the pool. The sum of these surface areas must then be compared to the surface area which is obtained by a computation based on the required MHD of the pool.
10
The larger of the two figures represents the surface area which is required for a pool housing a mixture of Group I and Group II cetaceans. Pool surfaces where the depth does not meet the
minimum requirements cannot be used in determining the required surface area.
10
Since the MHD represents the diameter of a circle, the surface area based on the MHD is calculated by use of the following formula:
SA = π × (MHD / 2).
2
(iii) Surface area requirements are given in Table IV.
Table IV—Minimum Surface Area Required for Each Cetacean
Average adult length of each cetacean
Meters
Feet
Surface area required for each cetacean
Sq. meters
1
Sq. feet
1.68
5.5
3.31
33.62
2.13
7.0
5.36
57.70
2.29
7.5
6.15
66.23
2.59
8.5
7.90
85.07
2.74
9.0
8.86
95.38
3.05
10.0
10.94
117.75
3.51
11.5
14.47
155.72
3.66
12.0
15.75
169.56
4.27
14.0
21.44
230.79
5.49
18.0
35.44
381.51
5.64
18.5
37.43
403.00
5.79
19.0
39.49
425.08
6.71
22.0
52.94
569.91
6.86
22.5
55.38
596.11
7.32
24.0
63.01
678.24
8.53
28.0
85.76
923.16
1
Square meter = square feet/9 × 0.8361.
(c)
Sirenians.
Primary enclosures housing sirenians shall contain a pool of water and may consist entirely of a pool of water.
(1) The required MHD of a primary enclosure pool for sirenians shall be two times the average adult length of the longest species of sirenian to be housed therein. Calculations shall be based on the average adult length of such sirenians as measured in a horizontal line from the tip of the muzzle to the notch in the tail fluke of dugongs and from the tip of the muzzle to the most distal point in the rounded tail of the manatee.
(2) The minimum depth requirements for primary enclosure pools for all sirenians shall be one-half the average adult length of the longest species to be housed therein, or 1.52 meters (5.0 feet), whichever is greater. Those parts of the primary enclosure pool which do not meet the minimum depth requirements cannot be included when calculating space requirements for sirenians.
(3) A pool which satisfies the required MHD and depth shall be adequate for one or two sirenians. Volume and surface area requirements for additional animals shall be calculated using the same formula as for Group I cetaceans, except that the figure for depth requirement for sirenians shall be one-half the average adult length or 1.52 meters (5.0 feet), whichever is greater.
(d)
Pinnipeds.
(1) Primary enclosures housing pinnipeds shall contain a pool of water and a dry resting or social activity area that must be close enough to the surface of the water to allow easy access for entering or leaving the pool. For the purposes of this subpart, pinnipeds have been divided into Group I pinnipeds and Group II pinnipeds as shown in Table III in this section. In certain instances some Group I pinnipeds shall be considered as Group II pinnipeds. (See Table III).
(2) The minimum size of the dry resting or social activity area of the primary enclosure for pinnipeds (exclusive of the pool of water) shall be based on the average adult length of each pinniped contained therein, as measured in a horizontal or extended position in a straight line from the tip of its nose to the tip of its tail. The minimum size of the dry resting or social activity area shall be computed using the following methods:
(i)
Group I pinnipeds.
Square the average adult length of each pinniped to be contained in the primary enclosure. Add the figures obtained for each of the pinnipeds in the primary enclosure to determine the dry resting or social activity area required for such pinnipeds. If only a single Group I pinniped is maintained in the primary enclosure, the minimum dry resting or social activity area shall be twice the square of the average adult length of that single Group I pinniped. Examples:
(average adult length)
2
of 1st Group I pinniped + (average adult length)
2
of 2nd Group I pinniped = Total DRA for two pinnipeds
DRA for one pinniped = 2 × (average adult length of Group I pinniped)
2
(ii)
Group II pinnipeds.
List all pinnipeds contained in a primary enclosure by average adult length in descending order from the longest species of pinniped to the shortest species of pinniped. Square the average adult length of each pinniped. Multiply the average adult length squared of the longest pinniped by 1.5, the second longest by 1.4, the third longest by 1.3, the fourth longest by 1.2, and the fifth
longest by 1.1, as indicated in the following example. Square the average adult length of the sixth pinniped and each additional pinniped. Add the figures obtained for all the pinnipeds in the primary enclosure to determine the required minimum dry resting or social activity area required for such pinnipeds. If only a single Group II pinniped is maintained in the primary enclosure, the minimum dry resting or social activity area must be computed for a minimum of two pinnipeds.
Examples: DRA for 1 Group II Pinniped = [(Average adult length)
2
× 1.5] + [(Average adult length)
2
× 1.4]
1st pinniped (avg. adult length)
2
× 1.5 = social and DRA required
2nd pinniped (avg. adult length)
2
× 1.4 = social and DRA required
3rd pinniped (avg. adult length)
1
× 1.3 = social and DRA required
4th pinniped (avg. adult length)
2
× 1.2 = social and DRA required
5th pinniped (avg. adult length)
2
× 1.1 = social and DRA required
Each pinniped over 5 (avg. adult length)
2
= social and DRA required
Total minimum social activity and dry resting area required for all pinnipeds housed in a primary enclosure.
If all the pinnipeds in the primary enclosure are of the same species, the same descending order of calculation shall apply. Example: Hooded seal—average adult length of male = 8.5 feet and female = 6.6 feet. In a primary enclosure containing 2 males and 2 females, the social or DRA required would be the sum of [(8.5)
2
× 1.5] + [(8.5)
2
× 1.4] + [(6.6)
2
× 1.3] + [(6.6)
2
× 1.2].
If two or more sexually mature males are maintained together in a primary enclosure, the dry resting or social activity area shall be divided into two or more separate areas with sufficient visual barriers (such as fences, rocks, or foliage) to provide relief from aggressive animals.
(iii)
Mixture of Group I and Group II pinnipeds.
In a primary enclosure where a mixture of Group I and Group II pinnipeds is to be housed, the dry resting or social activity area shall be calculated as for Group II pinnipeds. The dry resting or social activity area shall be divided into two or more separate areas with sufficient visual barriers (such as fences, rocks, or foliage) to provide relief from aggressive animals.
(3)(i) The minimum surface area of a pool of water for pinnipeds shall be at least equal to the dry resting or social activity area required.
(ii) The MHD of the pool shall be at least one and one-half (1.5) times the average adult length of the largest species of pinniped to be housed in the enclosure; except that such MHD measurement may be reduced by up to 20 percent if the amount of the reduction is added to the MHD at the 90-degree angle.
(iii) The pool of water shall be at least 0.91 meters (3.0 feet) deep or one-half the average adult length of the longest species of pinniped contained therein, whichever is greater. Parts of the pool that do not meet the minimum depth requirement cannot be used in the calculation of the dry resting and social activity area, or as part of the MHD or required surface area of the pool.
(e)
Polar bears.
Primary enclosures housing polar bears shall consist of a pool of water, a dry resting and social activity area, and a den. A minimum of 37.16 square meters (400 square feet) of dry resting and social activity area shall be provided for up to two polar bears, with an additional 3.72 square meters (40 square feet) of dry resting and social activity area for each additional polar bear. The dry resting and social activity area shall be provided with enough shade to accommodate all of the polar bears housed in such primary enclosure at the same time. The pool of water shall have an MHD of not less than 2.44 meters (8.0 feet) and a surface area of at least 8.93 square meters (96.0 square feet) with a minimum depth of 1.52 meters (5.0 feet) with the exception of any entry and exit area. This size pool shall be adequate for two polar bears. For each additional bear, the surface area of the pool must be increased by 3.72 square meters (40 square feet). In measuring this additional surface area, parts of the pool which do not meet minimum depth cannot be considered. The den shall be at least 1.83 meters (6 feet) in width and depth and not less than 1.52 meters (5 feet) in height. It will be so positioned that the viewing public shall not be visible from the interior of the den. A separate den shall be provided for each adult female
of breeding age which is permanently housed in the same primary enclosure with an adult male of breeding age. Female polar bears in traveling acts or shows must be provided a den when pregnancy has been determined.
(f)
Sea otters.
(1) Primary enclosures for sea otters shall consist of a pool of water and a dry resting area. The MHD of the pool of water for sea otters shall be at least three times the average adult length of the sea otter contained therein (measured in a horizontal line from the tip of its nose to the tip of its tail) and the pool shall be not less than .91 meters (3.0 feet) deep. When more than two sea otters are housed in the same primary enclosure, additional dry resting area as well as pool volume is required to accommodate the additional sea otters. (See Table V).
(2) The minimum volume of water required for a primary enclosure pool for sea otters shall be based on the sea otter's average adult length. The minimum volume of water required in the pool shall be computed using the following method: Multiply the square of the sea otter's average adult length by 3.14 and then multiply the total by 0.91 meters (3.0 feet). This volume is satisfactory for one or two otters. To calculate the additional volume of water for each additional sea otter above two in a primary enclosure, multiply one-half of the square of the sea otter's average adult length by 3.14, then multiply by 0.91 meters (3.0 feet). (See Table V).
(3) The minimum dry resting area required for one or two sea otters shall be based on the sea otter's average adult length. The minimum dry resting area for one or two sea otters shall be computed using the following method: Square the average adult length of the sea otter and multiply the total by 3.14. When the enclosure is to contain more than two sea otters, the dry resting area for each additional animal shall be computed by multiplying one-half of the sea otter's average adult length by 3.14. Using 1.25 meters or 4.1 feet (the average adult length of a sea otter), the calculations for additional space will result in the following figures:
Table V—Additional Space Required for Each Sea Otter When More Than Two in a Primary Enclosure
Average adult length of sea otter
Meters
Feet
Resting area
Square meters
Square Feet
Pool Volume
Cubic meters
Cubic feet
1.25
4.1
1.96
6.44
2.23
79.17
[44 FR 36874, June 22, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 63261, Sept. 24, 1980; 49 FR 26682, 26685, June 28, 1984; 49 FR 27922, July 9, 1984; 63 FR 2, Jan. 2, 1998; 63 FR 47148, Sept. 4, 1998; 66 FR 252, Jan. 3, 2001]

# Animal Health and Husbandry Standards
§ 3.105
Feeding.
(a) The food for marine mammals must be wholesome, palatable, and free from contamination and must be of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to maintain marine mammals in a state of good health. The diet must be prepared with consideration for factors such as age, species, condition, and size of the marine mammal being fed. Marine mammals must be offered food at least once a day, except as directed by the attending veterinarian.
(b) Food receptacles, if used, must be located so as to be accessible to all marine mammals in the same primary enclosure and must be placed so as to minimize contamination of the food they contain. Such food receptacles must be cleaned and sanitized after each use.
(c) Food, when given to each marine mammal individually, must be given by an employee or attendant responsible to management who has the necessary knowledge to assure that each marine mammal receives an adequate quantity of food to maintain it in good health. Such employee or attendant is
required to have the ability to recognize deviations from a normal state of good health in each marine mammal so that the food intake can be adjusted accordingly. Inappetence exceeding 24 hours must be reported immediately to the attending veterinarian. Public feeding may be permitted only in the presence and under the supervision of a sufficient number of knowledgeable, uniformed employees or attendants. Such employees or attendants must assure that the marine mammals are receiving the proper amount and type of food. Only food supplied by the facility where the marine mammals are kept may be fed to the marine mammals by the public. Marine mammal feeding records noting the estimated individual daily consumption must be maintained at the facility for a period of 1 year and must be made available for APHIS inspection. For marine mammals that are individually fed and not subject to public feeding, the feeding records should reflect an accurate account of food intake; for animals fed, in part, by the public, and for large, group-fed colonies of marine mammals where individual rations are not practical or feasible to maintain, the daily food consumption should be estimated as precisely as possible.
(d) Food preparation and handling must be conducted so as to assure the wholesomeness and nutritive value of the food. Frozen fish or other frozen food must be stored in freezers that are maintained at a maximum temperature of −18 °C (0 °F). The length of time food is stored and the method of storage, the thawing of frozen food, and the maintenance of thawed food must be conducted in a manner that will minimize contamination and that will assure that the food retains nutritive value and wholesome quality until the time of feeding. When food is thawed in standing or running water, cold water must be used. All foods must be fed to the marine mammals within 24 hours following the removal of such foods from the freezers for thawing, or if the food has been thawed under refrigeration, it must be fed to the marine mammals within 24 hours of thawing.
[66 FR 252, Jan. 3, 2001]
§ 3.106
Water quality.
(a)
General.
The primary enclosure shall not contain water which would be detrimental to the health of the marine mammal contained therein.
(b)
Bacterial standards.
(1) The coliform bacteria count of the primary enclosure pool shall not exceed 1,000 MPN (most probable number) per 100 ml. of water. Should a coliform bacterial count exceed 1,000 MPN, two subsequent samples may be taken at 48-hour intervals and averaged with the first sample. If such average count does not fall below 1,000 MPN, then the water in the pool shall be deemed unsatisfactory, and the condition must be corrected immediately.
(2) When the water is chemically treated, the chemicals shall be added so as not to cause harm or discomfort to the marine mammals.
(3) Water samples shall be taken and tested at least weekly for coliform count and at least daily for pH and any chemical additives (e.g. chlorine and copper) that are added to the water to maintain water quality standards. Facilities using natural seawater shall be exempt from pH and chemical testing unless chemicals are added to maintain water quality. However, they are required to test for coliforms. Records must be kept documenting the time when all such samples were taken and the results of the sampling. Records of all such test results shall be maintained by management for a 1-year period and must be made available for inspection purposes on request.
(c)
Salinity.
Primary enclosure pools of water shall be salinized for marine cetaceans as well as for those other marine mammals which require salinized water for their good health and well-being. The salinity of the water in such pools shall be maintained within a range of 15-36 parts per thousand.
(d)
Filtration and water flow.
Water quality must be maintained by filtration, chemical treatment, or other means so as to comply with the water quality standards specified in this section.
§ 3.107
Sanitation.
(a)
Primary enclosures.
(1) Animal and food waste in areas other than the pool
of water must be removed from the primary enclosures at least daily, and more often when necessary, in order to provide a clean environment and minimize health and disease hazards.
(2) Particulate animal and food waste, trash, or debris that enters the primary enclosure pools of water must be removed at least daily, or as often as necessary, to maintain the required water quality and to minimize health and disease hazards to the marine mammals.
(3) The wall and bottom surfaces of the primary enclosure pools of water must be cleaned as often as necessary to maintain proper water quality. Natural organisms (such as algae, coelenterates, or molluscs, for example) that do not degrade water quality as defined in § 3.106, prevent proper maintenance, or pose a health or disease hazard to the animals are not considered contaminants.
(b)
Food preparation.
Equipment and utensils used in food preparation must be cleaned and sanitized after each use. Kitchens and other food handling areas where animal food is prepared must be cleaned at least once daily and sanitized at least once every week. Sanitizing must be accomplished by washing with hot water (8 °C, 180 °F, or higher) and soap or detergent in a mechanical dishwasher, or by washing all soiled surfaces with a detergent solution followed by a safe and effective disinfectant, or by cleaning all soiled surfaces with live steam. Substances such as cleansing and sanitizing agents, pesticides, and other potentially toxic agents must be stored in properly labeled containers in secured cabinets designed and located to prevent contamination of food storage preparation surfaces.
(c)
Housekeeping.
Buildings and grounds, as well as exhibit areas, must be kept clean and in good repair. Fences must be maintained in good repair. Primary enclosures housing marine mammals must not have any loose objects or sharp projections and/or edges which may cause injury or trauma to the marine mammals contained therein.
(d)
Pest control.
A safe and effective program for the control of insects, ectoparasites, and avian and mammalian pests must be established and maintained. Insecticides or other such chemical agents must not be applied in primary enclosures housing marine mammals except when deemed essential by an attending veterinarian.
[66 FR 253, Jan. 3, 2001]
§ 3.108
Employees or attendants.
(a) A sufficient number of adequately trained employees or attendants, responsible to management and working in concert with the attending veterinarian, must be utilized to maintain the prescribed level of husbandry practices set forth in this subpart. Such practices must be conducted under the supervision of a marine mammal caretaker who has demonstrable experience in marine mammal husbandry and care.
(b) The facility will provide and document participation in and successful completion of a facility training course for such employees. This training course will include, but is not limited to, species appropriate husbandry techniques, animal handling techniques, and information on proper reporting protocols, such as recordkeeping and notification of veterinary staff for medical concerns.
(c) Any training of marine mammals must be done by or under the direct supervision of experienced trainers.
(d) Trainers and handlers must meet professionally recognized standards for experience and training.
[66 FR 253, Jan. 3, 2001]
§ 3.109
Separation.
Marine mammals, whenever known to be primarily social in the wild, must be housed in their primary enclosure with at least one compatible animal of the same or biologically related species, except when the attending veterinarian, in consultation with the husbandry/training staff, determines that such housing is not in the best interest of the marine mammal's health or well-being. However, marine mammals that are not compatible must not be housed in the same enclosure. Marine mammals must not be housed near other animals that cause them unreasonable stress or discomfort or interfere with their good health. Animals
housed separately must have a written plan, approved by the attending veterinarian, developed in consultation with the husbandry/training staff, that includes the justification for the length of time the animal will be kept separated or isolated, information on the type and frequency of enrichment and interaction, if appropriate, and provisions for periodic review of the plan by the attending veterinarian. Marine mammals that are separated for nonmedical purposes must be held in facilities that meet minimum space requirements as outlined in § 3.104.
[66 FR 253, Jan. 3, 2001]
§ 3.110
Veterinary care.
(a) Newly acquired marine mammals must be isolated from resident marine mammals. Animals with a known medical history must be isolated unless or until the newly acquired animals can be reasonably determined to be in good health by the attending veterinarian. Animals without a known medical history must be isolated until the newly acquired animals are determined to be in good health by the attending veterinarian. Any communicable disease condition in a newly acquired marine mammal must be remedied before it is placed with resident marine mammals, unless, in the judgment of the attending veterinarian, the potential benefits of a resident animal as a companion to the newly acquired animal outweigh the risks to the resident animal.
(b) Holding facilities must be in place and available to meet the needs for isolation, separation, medical treatment, and medical training of marine mammals. Marine mammals that are isolated or separated for nonmedical purposes must be held in facilities that meet minimum space requirements as outlined in § 3.104. Holding facilities used only for medical treatment and medical training need not meet the minimum space requirements as outlined in § 3.104. Holding of a marine mammal in a medical treatment or medical training enclosure that does not meet minimum space requirements for periods longer than 2 weeks must be noted in the animal's medical record and the attending veterinarian must provide a justification in the animal's medical record. If holding in such enclosures for medical treatment and/or medical training is to last longer than 2 weeks, such extension must be justified in writing by the attending veterinarian on a weekly basis. In natural lagoon or coastal enclosures where isolation cannot be accomplished, since water circulation cannot be controlled or isolated, separation of newly acquired marine mammals must be accomplished using separate enclosures situated within the facility to prevent direct contact and to minimize the risk of potential airborne and water cross-contamination between newly acquired and resident animals.
(c) Any holding facility used for medical purposes that has contained a marine mammal with an infectious or contagious disease must be cleaned and/or sanitized in a manner prescribed by the attending veterinarian. No healthy animals may be introduced into this holding facility prior to such cleaning and/or sanitizing procedures. Any marine mammal exposed to a contagious animal must be evaluated by the attending veterinarian and monitored and/or isolated for an appropriate period of time as determined by the attending veterinarian.
(d) Individual animal medical records must be kept and made available for APHIS inspection. These medical records must include at least the following information:
(1) Animal identification/name, a physical description, including any identifying markings, scars, etc., age, and sex; and
(2) Physical examination information, including but not limited to length, weight, physical examination results by body system, identification of all medical and physical problems with proposed plan of action, all diagnostic test results, and documentation of treatment.
(e) A copy of the individual animal medical record must accompany any marine mammal upon its transfer to another facility, including contract or satellite facilities.
(f) All marine mammals must be visually examined by the attending veterinarian at least semiannually and must be physically examined under the supervision of and when determined to
be necessary by the attending veterinarian. All cetaceans and sirenians must be physically examined by the attending veterinarian at least annually, unless APHIS grants an exception from this requirement based on considerations related to the health and safety of the cetacean or sirenian. These examinations must include, but are not limited to, a hands-on physical examination, hematology and blood chemistry, and other diagnostic tests as determined by the attending veterinarian.
(g)(1) A complete necropsy, including histopathology samples, microbiological cultures, and other testing as appropriate, must be conducted by or under the supervision of the attending veterinarian on all marine mammals that die in captivity. A preliminary necropsy report must be prepared by the veterinarian listing all pathologic lesions observed. The final necropsy report must include all gross and histopathological findings, the results of all laboratory tests performed, and a pathological diagnosis.
(2) Necropsy records will be maintained at the marine mammal's home facility and at the facility at which it died, if different, for a period of 3 years and must be presented to APHIS inspectors when requested.
[66 FR 253, Jan. 3, 2001, as amended at 85 FR 28799, May 13, 2020]
§ 3.111
Swim-with-the-dolphin programs.
Swim-with-the-dolphin programs shall comply with the requirements in this section, as well as with all other applicable requirements of the regulations pertaining to marine mammals.
(a)
Space requirements.
The primary enclosure for SWTD cetaceans shall contain an interactive area, a buffer area, and a sanctuary area. None of these areas shall be made uninviting to the animals. Movement of cetaceans into the buffer or sanctuary area shall not be restricted in any way. Notwithstanding the space requirements set forth in § 3.104, each of the three areas required for SWTD programs shall meet the following space requirements:
(1) The horizontal dimension for each area must be at least three times the average adult body length of the species of cetacean used in the program;
(2) The minimum surface area required for each area is calculated as follows:
(i)
Up to two cetaceans:
ER04SE98.022
(ii)
Three cetaceans:
ER04SE98.023
(iii)
Additional SA for each animal in excess of three:
ER04SE98.024
(3) The average depth for sea pens, lagoons, and similar natural enclosures at low tide shall be at least 9 feet. The average depth for any manmade enclosure or other structure not subject to tidal action shall be at least 9 feet. A portion of each area may be excluded when calculating the average depth, but the excluded portion may not be used in calculating whether the interactive, buffer, and sanctuary area meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(4) of this section.
(4) The minimum volume required for each animal is calculated as follows:
Volume = SA × 9
(b)
Water clarity.
Sufficient water clarity shall be maintained so that attendants are able to observe cetaceans and humans at all times while within the interactive area. If water clarity does not allow these observations, the interactive sessions shall be canceled until the required clarity is provided.
(c)
Employees and attendants.
Each SWTD program shall have, at the minimum, the following personnel, with the following minimum backgrounds (each position shall be held by a separate individual, with a sufficient number of attendants to comply with § 3.111(e)(4)):
(1) Licensee or manager—at least one full-time staff member with at least 6 years experience in a professional or managerial position dealing with captive cetaceans;
(2) Head trainer/behaviorist—at least one full-time staff member with at least 6 years experience in training cetaceans for SWTD behaviors in the past 10 years, or an equivalent amount of experience involving in-water training of cetaceans, who serves as the head trainer for the SWTD program;
(3) Trainer/supervising attendant—at least one full-time staff member with at least 3 years training and/or handling experience involving human/cetacean interaction programs;
(4) Attendant—an adequate number of staff members who are adequately trained in the care, behavior, and training of the program animals. Attendants shall be designated by the trainer, in consultation with the head trainer/behaviorist and licensee/manager, to conduct and monitor interactive sessions in accordance with § 3.111(e); and
(5) Attending veterinarian—at least one staff or consultant veterinarian who has at least the equivalent of 2 years full-time experience (4,160 or more hours) with cetacean medicine within the past 10 years, and who is licensed to practice veterinary medicine.
(d)
Program animals.
Only cetaceans that meet the requirements of § 3.111(e)(2) and (3) may be used in SWTD programs.
(e)
Handling.
(1) Interaction time (
i.e.,
designated interactive swim sessions) for each cetacean shall not exceed 2 hours per day. Each program cetacean shall have at least one period in each 24 hours of at least 10 continuous hours without public interaction.
(2) All cetaceans used in an interactive session shall be adequately trained and conditioned in human interaction so that they respond in the session to the attendants with appropriate behavior for safe interaction. The head trainer/behaviorist, trainer/supervising attendant, or attendant shall, at all times, control the nature and extent of the cetacean interaction with the public during a session, using the trained responses of the program animal.
(3) All cetaceans used in interactive sessions shall be in good health, including, but not limited to, not being infectious. Cetaceans undergoing veterinary treatment may be used in interactive sessions only with the approval of the attending veterinarian.
(4) The ratio of human participants to cetaceans shall not exceed 3:1. The ratio of human participants to attendants or other authorized SWTD personnel (
i.e.
, head trainer/behaviorist or trainer/supervising attendant) shall not exceed 3:1.
(5) Prior to participating in an SWTD interactive session, members of the public shall be provided with oral and written rules and instructions for the session, to include the telephone and FAX numbers for APHIS, Animal Care, for reporting injuries or complaints. Members of the public shall agree, in writing, to abide by the rules and instructions before being allowed to participate in the session. Any participant who fails to follow the rules or instructions shall be removed from the session by the facility.
(6) All interactive sessions shall have at least two attendants or other authorized SWTD personnel (
i.e.
, head trainer/behaviorist or trainer/supervising attendant). At least one attendant shall be positioned out of the water. One or more attendants or other authorized SWTD personnel may be positioned in the water. If a facility has more than two incidents during interactive sessions within a year's time span that have been dangerous or harmful to either a cetacean or a human, APHIS, in consultation with the head trainer/behaviorist, will determine if changes in attendant positions are needed.
(7) All SWTD programs shall limit interaction between cetaceans and humans so that the interaction does not harm the cetaceans, does not remove the element of choice from the cetaceans by actions such as, but not
limited to, recalling the animal from the sanctuary area, and does not elicit unsatisfactory, undesirable, or unsafe behaviors from the cetaceans. All SWTD programs shall prohibit grasping or holding of the cetacean's body, unless under the direct and explicit instruction of an attendant eliciting a specific cetacean behavior, and shall prevent the chasing or other harassment of the cetaceans.
(8) In cases where cetaceans used in an interactive session exhibit unsatisfactory, undesirable, or unsafe behaviors, including, but not limited to, charging, biting, mouthing, or sexual contact with humans, such cetaceans shall either be removed from the interactive area or the session shall be terminated. Written criteria shall be developed by each SWTD program, and shall be submitted to and approved by APHIS
11
regarding conditions and procedures for maintaining compliance with paragraph (e)(4) of this section; for the termination of a session when removal of a cetacean is not possible; and regarding criteria and protocols for handling program animal(s) exhibiting unsatisfactory, undesirable, or unsafe behaviors, including retraining time and techniques, and removal from the program and/or facility, if appropriate. The head trainer/behaviorist shall determine when operations will be terminated, and when they may resume. In the absence of the head trainer/behaviorist, the determination to terminate a session shall be made by the trainer/supervising attendant. Only the head trainer/behaviorist may determine when a session may be resumed.
11
Send to Administrator, c/o Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Animal Care, 4700 River Road Unit 84, Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1234.
(f)
Recordkeeping.
(1) Each facility shall provide APHIS
12
with a description of its program at least 30 days prior to initiation of the program, or in the case of any program in place before September 4, 1998, not later than October 5, 1998. The description shall include at least the following:
12
See footnote 11 in § 3.111(e)(8).
(i) Identification of each cetacean in the program, by means of name and/or number, sex, age, and any other means the Administrator determines to be necessary to adequately identify the cetacean;
(ii) A description of the educational content and agenda of planned interactive sessions, and the anticipated average and maximum frequency and duration of encounters per cetacean per day;
(iii) The content and method of pre-encounter orientation, rules, and instructions, including restrictions on types of physical contact with the cetaceans;
(iv) A description of the SWTD facility, including the primary enclosure and other SWTD animal housing or holding enclosures at the facility;
(v) A description of the training, including actual or expected number of hours each cetacean has undergone or will undergo prior to participation in the program;
(vi) The resume of the licensee and/or manager, the head trainer/behaviorist, the trainer/supervising attendant, any other attendants, and the attending veterinarian;
(vii) The current behavior patterns and health of each cetacean, to be assessed and submitted by the attending veterinarian;
(viii) For facilities that employ a part-time attending veterinarian or consultant arrangements, a written program of veterinary care (APHIS form 7002), including protocols and schedules of professional visits; and
(ix) A detailed description of the monitoring program to be used to detect and identify changes in the behavior and health of the cetaceans.
(2) All SWTD programs shall comply in all respects with the regulations and standards set forth in parts 2 and 3 of this subchapter.
(3) Individual animal veterinary records, including all examinations, laboratory reports, treatments, and necropsy reports shall be kept at the SWTD site for at least 3 years and shall be made available to an APHIS official upon request during inspection.
(4) The following records shall be kept at the SWTD site for at least 3 years and shall be made available to an APHIS official upon request during inspection:
(i) Individual cetacean feeding records; and
(ii) Individual cetacean behavioral records.
(5) The following reports shall be kept at the SWTD site for at least 3 years and shall be made available to an APHIS official upon request during inspection:
(i) Statistical summaries of the number of minutes per day that each animal participated in an interactive session;
(ii) A statistical summary of the number of human participants per month in the SWTD program; and
(6) A description of any changes made in the SWTD program, which shall be submitted to APHIS
13
on a semi-annual basis.
13
See footnote 11 in § 3.111(e)(8).
(7) All incidents resulting in injury to either cetaceans or humans participating in an interactive session, which shall be reported to APHIS within 24 hours of the incident.
14
Within 7 days of any such incident, a written report shall be submitted to the Administrator.
15
The report shall provide a detailed description of the incident and shall establish a plan of action for the prevention of further occurrences.
14
Telephone numbers for APHIS, Animal Care, regional offices can be found in local telephone books.
15
See footnote 11 in § 3.111(e)(8).
(g)
Veterinary care.
(1) The attending veterinarian shall conduct on-site evaluations of each cetacean at least once a month. The evaluation shall include a visual inspection of the animal; examination of the behavioral, feeding, and medical records of the animal; and a discussion of each animal with an animal care staff member familiar with the animal.
(2) The attending veterinarian shall observe an interactive swim session at the SWTD site at least once each month.
(3) The attending veterinarian shall conduct a complete physical examination of each cetacean at least once every 6 months. The examination shall include a profile of the cetacean, including the cetacean's identification (name and/or number, sex, and age), weight,
16
length, axillary girth, appetite, and behavior. The attending veterinarian shall also conduct a general examination to evaluate body condition, skin, eyes, mouth, blow hole and cardio-respiratory system, genitalia, and feces (gastrointestinal status). The examination shall also include a complete blood count and serum chemistry analysis. Fecal and blow hole smears shall be obtained for cytology and parasite evaluation.
16
Weight may be measured either by scale or calculated using the following formulae:
Females: Natural log of body mass = −8.44 + 1.34(natural log of girth) + 1.28(natural log of standard length).
Males: Natural log of body mass= −10.3 + 1.62(natural log of girth) + 1.38(natural log of standard length).
(4) The attending veterinarian, during the monthly site visit, shall record the nutritional and reproductive status of each cetacean (
i.e.,
whether in an active breeding program, pregnant, or nursing).
(5) The attending veterinarian shall examine water quality records and provide a written assessment, to remain at the SWTD site for at least 3 years, of the overall water quality during the preceding month. Such records shall be made available to an APHIS official upon request during inspection.
(6) In the event that a cetacean dies, complete necropsy results, including all appropriate histopathology, shall be recorded in the cetacean's individual file and shall be made available to APHIS officials during facility inspections, or as requested by APHIS. The necropsy shall be performed within 48 hours of the cetacean's death, by a veterinarian experienced in marine mammal necropsies. If the necropsy is not to be performed within 3 hours of the discovery of the cetacean's death, the cetacean shall be refrigerated until necropsy. Written results of the necropsy shall be available in the cetacean's individual file within 7 days after death for gross pathology and within 45 days after death for histopathology.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0036 and 0579-0115)
[63 FR 47148, Sept. 4, 1998]

# Effective Date Note:
At 64 FR 15920, Apr. 2, 1999, § 3.111 was suspended, effective Apr. 2, 1999.

# Editorial Notes:
1. At 85 FR 28799, May 13, 2020, § 3.111 was amended; however, the amendment could not be incorporated because the section was suspended at 64 FR 15920, Apr. 2, 1999.
2. At 86 FR 66926, Nov. 24, 2021, § 3.111 was amended; however, the amendment could not be incorporated because the section was suspended at 64 FR 15920, Apr. 2, 1999.

# Transportation Standards
§ 3.112
Consignments to carriers and intermediate handlers.
(a) Carriers and intermediate handlers shall not accept any marine mammal that is presented by any dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, or other person, or any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or any State or local government for shipment, in commerce, more than 4 hours prior to the scheduled departure of the primary conveyance on which it is to be transported, and that is not accompanied by a health certificate signed by the attending veterinarian stating that the animal was examined within the prior 10 days and found to be in acceptable health for transport:
Provided, however,
That the carrier or intermediate handler and any dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, or other person, or any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or any State or local government may mutually agree to extend the time of acceptance to not more than 6 hours if specific prior scheduling of the animal shipment to destination has been made.
(b) Any carrier or intermediate handler shall only accept for transportation or transport, in commerce, any marine mammal in a primary transport enclosure that conforms to the requirements in § 3.113 of this subpart:
Provided, however,
That any carrier or intermediate handler may accept for transportation or transport, in commerce, any marine mammal consigned by any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States having laboratory animal facilities or exhibiting animals or any licensed or registered dealer, research facility, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale if the consignor furnishes to the carrier or intermediate handler a certificate, signed by the consignor, stating that the primary transport enclosure complies with § 3.113 of this subpart, unless such primary transport enclosure is obviously defective or damaged and it is apparent that it cannot reasonably be expected to contain the marine mammal without causing suffering or injury to the marine mammal. A copy of any such certificate must accompany the shipment to destination. The certificate must include at least the following information:
(1) Name and address of the consignor;
(2) The number, age, and sex of animals in the primary transport enclosure(s);
(3) A certifying statement (e.g., “I hereby certify that the—(number) primary transport enclosure(s) that are used to transport the animal(s) in this shipment complies (comply) with USDA standards for primary transport enclosures (9 CFR part 3).”); and
(4) The signature of the consignor, and date.
(c) Carriers or intermediate handlers whose facilities fail to maintain a temperature within the range of 7.2 °C (45 °F) to 23.9 °C (75 °F) allowed by § 3.117 of this subpart may accept for transportation or transport, in commerce, any marine mammal consigned by any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local government, or by any person (including any licensee or registrant under the Act, as well as any private individual) if the consignor furnishes to the carrier or intermediate handler a certificate executed by the attending veterinarian on a specified date that is not more than 10 days prior to delivery of the animal for transportation in commerce, stating that the marine mammal is acclimated to a specific air temperature range lower or higher than those prescribed in §§ 3.117 and 3.118. A copy of the certificate must accompany the shipment to destination. The certificate must include at least the following information:
(1) Name and address of the consignor;
(2) The number, age, and sex of animals in the shipment;
(3) A certifying statement (e.g., “I hereby certify that the animal(s) in this shipment is (are), to the best of my knowledge, acclimated to an air temperature range of ________”); and
(4) The signature of the attending veterinarian and the date.
(d) Carriers and intermediate handlers must attempt to notify the consignee (receiving party) at least once in every 6-hour period following the arrival of any marine mammals at the animal holding area of the terminal cargo facility. The time, date, and method of each attempted notification and the final notification to the consignee and the name of the person notifying the consignee must be recorded on the copy of the shipping document retained by the carrier or intermediate handler and on a copy of the shipping document accompanying the animal shipment.
[66 FR 254, Jan. 3, 2001]
§ 3.113
Primary enclosures used to transport marine mammals.
No dealer, research facility, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale shall offer for transportation or transport, in commerce, any marine mammal in a primary enclosure that does not conform to the following requirements:
(a) Primary enclosures that are used to transport marine mammals other than cetaceans and sirenians must:
(1) Be constructed from materials of sufficient structural strength to contain the marine mammals;
(2) Be constructed from material that is durable, nontoxic, and cannot be chewed and/or swallowed;
(3) Be able to withstand the normal rigors of transportation;
(4) Have interiors that are free from any protrusions or hazardous openings that could be injurious to the marine mammals contained within;
(5) Be constructed so that no parts of the contained marine mammals are exposed to the outside of the enclosures in any way that may cause injury to the animals or to persons who are nearby or who handle the enclosures;
(6) Have openings that provide access into the enclosures and are secured with locking devices of a type that cannot be accidentally opened;
(7) Have such openings located in a manner that makes them easily accessible at all times for emergency removal and potential treatment of any live marine mammal contained within;
(8) Have air inlets at heights that will provide cross ventilation at all levels (particularly when the marine mammals are in a prone position), are located on all four sides of the enclosures, and cover not less than 20 percent of the total surface area of each side of the enclosures;
(9) Have projecting rims or other devices placed on any ends and sides of the enclosures that have ventilation openings so that there is a minimum air circulation space of 7.6 centimeters (3.0 inches) between the enclosures and any adjacent cargo or conveyance wall;
(10) Be constructed so as to provide sufficient air circulation space to maintain the temperature limits set forth in this subpart; and
(11) Be equipped with adequate handholds or other devices on the exterior of the enclosures to enable them to be lifted without unnecessary tilting and to ensure that the persons handling the enclosures will not come in contact with any marine mammal contained inside.
(b) Straps, slings, harnesses, or other devices used for body support or restraint, when transporting marine mammals such as cetaceans and sirenians must:
(1) Be designed so as not to prevent access to the marine mammals by attendants for the purpose of administering in-transit care;
(2) Be equipped with special padding to prevent trauma or injury at critical weight pressure points on the body of the marine mammals; and
(3) Be capable of keeping the animals from thrashing about and causing injury to themselves or their attendants, and yet be adequately designed so as not to cause injury to the animals.
(c) Primary enclosures used to transport marine mammals must be large enough to assure that:
(1) In the case of pinnipeds, polar bears, and sea otters, each animal has sufficient space to turn about freely in a stance whereby all four feet or flippers are on the floor and the animal
can sit in an upright position and lie in a natural position;
(2) In the case of cetaceans and sirenians, each animal has sufficient space for support of its body in slings, harnesses, or other supporting devices, if used (as prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section), without causing injury to such cetaceans or sirenians due to contact with the primary transport enclosure:
Provided, however,
That animals may be restricted in their movements according to professionally accepted standards when such freedom of movement would constitute a danger to the animals, their handlers, or other persons.
(d) Marine mammals transported in the same primary enclosure must be of the same species and maintained in compatible groups. Marine mammals that have not reached puberty may not be transported in the same primary enclosure with adult marine mammals other than their dams. Socially dependent animals (e.g., sibling, dam, and other members of a family group) must be allowed visual and olfactory contact whenever reasonable. Female marine mammals may not be transported in the same primary enclosure with any mature male marine mammals.
(e) Primary enclosures used to transport marine mammals as provided in this section must have solid bottoms to prevent leakage in shipment and must be cleaned and sanitized in a manner prescribed in § 3.107 of this subpart, if previously used. Within the primary enclosures used to transport marine mammals, the animals will be maintained on sturdy, rigid, solid floors with adequate drainage.
(f) Primary enclosures used to transport marine mammals, except where such primary enclosures are permanently affixed in the animal cargo space of the primary conveyance, must be clearly marked on top (when present) and on at least one side, or on all sides whenever possible, with the words “Live Animal” or “Wild Animal” in letters not less than 2.5 centimeters (1 inch) in height, and with arrows or other markings to indicate the correct upright position of the container.
(g) Documents accompanying the shipment must be attached in an easily accessible manner to the outside of a primary enclosure that is part of such shipment or be in the possession of the shipping attendant.
(h) When a primary transport enclosure is permanently affixed within the animal cargo space of the primary conveyance so that the front opening is the only source of ventilation for such primary enclosure, the front opening must open directly to the outside or to an unobstructed aisle or passageway within the primary conveyance. Such front ventilation opening must be at least 90 percent of the total surface area of the front wall of the primary enclosure and covered with bars, wire mesh, or smooth expanded metal.
[66 FR 255, Jan. 3, 2001]
§ 3.114
Primary conveyances (motor vehicle, rail, air and marine).
(a) The animal cargo space of primary conveyances used in transporting live marine mammals must be constructed in a manner that will protect the health and assure the safety and comfort of the marine mammals contained within at all times. All primary conveyances used must be sufficiently temperature-controlled to provide an appropriate environmental temperature for the species involved and to provide for the safety and comfort of the marine mammal, or other appropriate safeguards (such as, but not limited to, cooling the animal with cold water, adding ice to water-filled enclosures, and use of fans) must be employed to maintain the animal at an appropriate temperature.
(b) The animal cargo space must be constructed and maintained in a manner that will prevent the ingress of engine exhaust fumes and gases in excess of that ordinarily contained in the passenger compartments.
(c) Marine mammals must only be placed in animal cargo spaces that have a supply of air sufficient for each live animal contained within. Primary transport enclosures must be positioned in the animal cargo spaces of primary conveyances in such a manner that each marine mammal contained within will have access to sufficient air.
(d) Primary transport enclosures must be positioned in primary conveyances in such a manner that, in an emergency, the live marine mammals can be removed from the conveyances as soon as possible.
(e) The interiors of animal cargo spaces in primary conveyances must be kept clean.
(f) Live marine mammals must not knowingly be transported with any material, substance, or device that may be injurious to the health and well-being of the marine mammals unless proper precaution is taken to prevent such injury.
(g) Adequate lighting must be available for marine mammal attendants to properly inspect the animals at any time. If such lighting is not provided by the carrier, provisions must be made by the shipper to supply such lighting.
[66 FR 255, Jan. 3, 2001]
§ 3.115
Food and drinking water requirements.
(a) Those marine mammals that require drinking water must be offered potable water within 4 hours of being placed in the primary transport enclosure for transport in commerce. Marine mammals must be provided water as often as necessary and appropriate for the species involved to prevent dehydration, which would jeopardize the good health and well-being of the animals.
(b) Marine mammals being transported in commerce must be offered food as often as necessary and appropriate for the species involved or as determined by the attending veterinarian.
[66 FR 256, Jan. 3, 2001]
§ 3.116
Care in transit.
(a) A licensed veterinarian, employee, and/or attendant of the shipper or receiver of any marine mammal being transported, in commerce, knowledgeable and experienced in the area of marine mammal care and transport, must accompany all marine mammals during periods of transportation to provide for their good health and well-being, to observe such marine mammals to determine whether they need veterinary care, and to obtain any needed veterinary care as soon as possible. Any transport of greater than 2 hours duration requires a transport plan approved by the attending veterinarian that will include the specification of the necessity of the presence of a veterinarian during the transport. If the attending veterinarian does not accompany the animal, communication with the veterinarian must be maintained in accordance with §§ 2.33(b)(3) and 2.40(b)(3) of this chapter.
(b) The following marine mammals may be transported in commerce only when the transport of such marine mammals has been determined to be appropriate by the attending veterinarian:
(1) A pregnant animal in the last half of pregnancy;
(2) A dependent unweaned young animal;
(3) A nursing mother with young; or
(4) An animal with a medical condition requiring veterinary care, that would be compromised by transport. The attending veterinarian must note on the accompanying health certificate the existence of any of the above conditions. The attending veterinarian must also determine whether a veterinarian should accompany such marine mammals during transport.
(c) Carriers must inform the crew as to the presence of the marine mammals on board the craft, inform the individual accompanying the marine mammals of any unexpected delays as soon as they become known, and accommodate, except as precluded by safety considerations, requests by the shipper or his agent to provide access to the animals or take other necessary actions for the welfare of the animals if a delay occurs.
(d) A sufficient number of employees or attendants of the shipper or receiver of cetaceans or sirenians being transported, in commerce, must provide for such cetaceans and sirenians during periods of transport by:
(1) Keeping the skin moist or preventing the drying of the skin by such methods as intermittent spraying of water or application of a nontoxic emollient;
(2) Assuring that the pectoral flippers are allowed freedom of movement at all times;
(3) Making adjustments in the position of the marine mammals when necessary to prevent necrosis of the skin at weight pressure points;
(4) Keeping the animal cooled and/or warmed sufficiently to prevent overheating, hypothermia, or temperature related stress; and
(5) Calming the marine mammals to avoid struggling, thrashing, and other unnecessary activity that may cause overheating or physical trauma.
(e) A sufficient number of employees or attendants of the shipper or receiver of pinnipeds or polar bears being transported, in commerce, must provide for such pinnipeds and polar bears during periods of transport by:
(1) Keeping the animal cooled and/or warmed sufficiently to prevent overheating, hypothermia, or temperature related stress; and
(2) Calming the marine mammals to avoid struggling, thrashing, and other unnecessary activity that may cause overheating or physical trauma.
(f) Sea otters must be transported in primary enclosures that contain false floors through which water and waste freely pass to keep the interior of the transport unit free from waste materials. Moisture must be provided by water sprayers or ice during transport.
(g) Marine mammals may be removed from their primary transport enclosures only by the attendants or other persons capable of handling such mammals safely.
[66 FR 256, Jan. 3, 2001]
§ 3.117
Terminal facilities.
Carriers and intermediate handlers must not commingle marine mammal shipments with inanimate cargo. All animal holding areas of a terminal facility of any carrier or intermediate handler where marine mammal shipments are maintained must be cleaned and sanitized in a manner prescribed in § 3.107 of this subpart to minimize health and disease hazards. An effective program for the control of insects, ectoparasites, and avian and mammalian pests must be established and maintained for all animal holding areas. Any animal holding area containing marine mammals must be ventilated with fresh air or air circulated by means of fans, blowers, or an air conditioning system so as to minimize drafts, odors, and moisture condensation. Auxiliary ventilation, such as exhaust fans and vents or fans or blowers or air conditioning must be used for any animal holding area containing marine mammals when the air temperature within such animal holding area is 23.9 °C (75 °F) or higher. The air temperature around any marine mammal in any animal holding area must not be allowed to fall below 7.2 °C (45 °F). The air temperature around any polar bear must not be allowed to exceed 29.5 °C (85 °F) at any time and no polar bear may be subjected to surrounding air temperatures that exceed 23.9 °C (75 °F) for more than 4 hours at any time. The ambient temperature must be measured in the animal holding area upon arrival of the shipment by the attendant, carrier, or intermediate handler. The ambient temperature must be measured halfway up the outside of the primary transport enclosure at a distance from the external wall of the primary transport enclosure not to exceed 0.91 meters (3 feet).
[66 FR 256, Jan. 3, 2001]
§ 3.118
Handling.
(a) Carriers and intermediate handlers moving marine mammals from the animal holding area of the terminal facility to the primary conveyance or from the primary conveyance to the animal holding area of the terminal facility must provide the following:
(1)
Movement of animals as expeditiously as possible.
(2)
Shelter from overheating and direct sunlight.
When sunlight is likely to cause overheating, sunburn, or discomfort, sufficient shade must be provided to protect the marine mammals. Marine mammals must not be subjected to surrounding air temperatures that exceed 23.9 °C (75 °F) unless accompanied by an acclimation certificate in accordance with § 3.112 of this subpart. The temperature must be measured and read within or immediately adjacent to the primary transport enclosure.
(3)
Shelter from cold weather.
Marine mammals must be provided with species appropriate protection against cold weather, and such marine mammals must not be subjected to surrounding air temperatures that fall below 7.2 °C (45 °F) unless accompanied by an acclimation certificate in accordance with § 3.112 of this subpart. The temperature must be measured and read within or immediately adjacent to the primary transport enclosure.
(b) Care must be exercised to avoid handling of the primary transport enclosure in a manner that may cause physical harm or distress to the marine mammal contained within.
(c) Enclosures used to transport any marine mammal must not be tossed, dropped, or needlessly tilted and must not be stacked unless properly secured.
[66 FR 257, Jan. 3, 2001]

# Subpart F—Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment, and Transportation of Warmblooded Animals Other Than Dogs, Cats, Rabbits, Hamsters, Guinea Pigs, Nonhuman Primates, Marine Mammals, and Birds

# Source:
36 FR 24925, Dec. 24, 1971, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 44 FR 36874, July 22, 1979.

# Facilities and Operating Standards
§ 3.125
Facilities, general.
(a)
Structural strength.
The facility must be constructed of such material and of such strength as appropriate for the animals involved. The indoor and outdoor housing facilities shall be structurally sound and shall be maintained in good repair to protect the animals from injury and to contain the animals.
(b)
Water and power.
Reliable and adequate electric power, if required to comply with other provisions of this subpart, and adequate potable water shall be available on the premises.
(c)
Storage.
Supplies of food and bedding shall be stored in facilities which adequately protect such supplies against deterioration, molding, or contamination by vermin. Refrigeration shall be provided for supplies of perishable food.
(d)
Waste disposal.
Provision shall be made for the removal and disposal of animal and food wastes, bedding, dead animals, trash and debris. Disposal facilities shall be so provided and operated as to minimize vermin infestation, odors, and disease hazards. The disposal facilities and any disposal of animal and food wastes, bedding, dead animals, trash, and debris shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations relating to pollution control or the protection of the environment.
(e)
Washroom and sinks.
Facilities, such as washrooms, basins, showers, or sinks, shall be provided to maintain cleanliness among animal caretakers.
[36 FR 24925, Dec. 24, 1971. Redesignated at 44 FR 36874, June 22, 1979, and amended at 44 FR 63492, Nov. 2, 1979]
§ 3.126
Facilities, indoor.
(a)
Ambient temperatures.
Temperature in indoor housing facilities shall be sufficiently regulated by heating or cooling to protect the animals from the extremes of temperature, to provide for their health and to prevent their discomfort. The ambient temperature shall not be allowed to fall below nor rise above temperatures compatible with the health and comfort of the animal.
(b)
Ventilation.
Indoor housing facilities shall be adequately ventilated by natural or mechanical means to provide for the health and to prevent discomfort of the animals at all times. Such facilities shall be provided with fresh air either by means of windows, doors, vents, fans, or air-conditioning and shall be ventilated so as to minimize drafts, odors, and moisture condensation.
(c)
Lighting.
Indoor housing facilities shall have ample lighting, by natural or artificial means, or both, of good quality, distribution, and duration as appropriate for the species involved. Such lighting shall be uniformly distributed and of sufficient intensity to permit routine inspection and cleaning. Lighting of primary enclosures shall be designed to protect the animals from excessive illumination.
(d)
Drainage.
A suitable sanitary method shall be provided to eliminate rapidly, excess water from indoor housing facilities. If drains are used, they shall be properly constructed and kept in good repair to avoid foul odors and installed so as to prevent any backup of sewage. The method of drainage shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations relating to pollution control or the protection of the environment.
§ 3.127
Facilities, outdoor.
(a)
Shelter from sunlight.
When sunlight is likely to cause overheating or discomfort of the animals, sufficient shade by natural or artificial means shall be provided to allow all animals kept outdoors to protect themselves from direct sunlight.
(b)
Shelter from inclement weather.
Natural or artificial shelter appropriate to the local climatic conditions for the species concerned shall be provided for all animals kept outdoors to afford them protection and to prevent discomfort to such animals. Individual animals shall be acclimated before they are exposed to the extremes of the individual climate.
(c)
Drainage.
A suitable method shall be provided to rapidly eliminate excess water. The method of drainage shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations relating to pollution control or the protection of the environment.
(d)
Perimeter fence.
On or after May 17, 2000, all outdoor housing facilities (
i.e.,
facilities not entirely indoors) must be enclosed by a perimeter fence that is of sufficient height to keep animals and unauthorized persons out. Fences less than 8 feet high for potentially dangerous animals, such as, but not limited to, large felines (e.g., lions, tigers, leopards, cougars, etc.), bears, wolves, rhinoceros, and elephants, or less than 6 feet high for other animals must be approved in writing by the Administrator. The fence must be constructed so that it protects the animals in the facility by restricting animals and unauthorized persons from going through it or under it and having contact with the animals in the facility, and so that it can function as a secondary containment system for the animals in the facility. It must be of sufficient distance from the outside of the primary enclosure to prevent physical contact between animals inside the enclosure and animals or persons outside the perimeter fence. Such fences less than 3 feet in distance from the primary enclosure must be approved in writing by the Administrator. A perimeter fence is not required:
(1) Where the outside walls of the primary enclosure are made of sturdy, durable material, which may include certain types of concrete, wood, plastic, metal, or glass, and are high enough and constructed in a manner that restricts entry by animals and unauthorized persons and the Administrator gives written approval; or
(2) Where the outdoor housing facility is protected by an effective natural barrier that restricts the animals to the facility and restricts entry by animals and unauthorized persons and the Administrator gives written approval; or
(3) Where appropriate alternative security measures are employed and the Administrator gives written approval; or
(4) For traveling facilities where appropriate alternative security measures are employed; or
(5) Where the outdoor housing facility houses only domesticated farm-type animals, such as, but not limited to, cows, sheep, goats, pigs, horses (for regulated purposes), or donkeys, and the facility has in place effective and customary containment and security measures.
[36 FR 24925, Dec. 24, 1971. Redesignated at 44 FR 36874, July 22, 1979, as amended at 64 FR 56147, Oct. 18, 1999; 65 FR 70770, Nov. 28, 2000; 83 FR 25555, June 4, 2018]
§ 3.128
Space requirements.
Enclosures shall be constructed and maintained so as to provide sufficient space to allow each animal to make normal postural and social adjustments with adequate freedom of movement. Inadequate space may be indicated by evidence of malnutrition, poor condition, debility, stress, or abnormal behavior patterns.

# Animal Health and Husbandry Standards
§ 3.129
Feeding.
(a) The food shall be wholesome, palatable, and free from contamination and of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to maintain all animals in good health. The diet shall be prepared with consideration for the age, species, condition, size, and type of the animal. Animals shall be fed at least once a day except as dictated by hibernation, veterinary treatment, normal fasts, or other professionally accepted practices.
(b) Food, and food receptacles, if used, shall be sufficient in quantity and located so as to be accessible to all animals in the enclosure and shall be placed so as to minimize contamination. Food receptacles shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times. If self-feeders are used, adequate measures shall be taken to prevent molding, contamination, and deterioration or caking of food.
§ 3.130
Watering.
If potable water is not accessible to the animals at all times, it must be provided as often as necessary for the health and comfort of the animal. Frequency of watering shall consider age, species, condition, size, and type of the animal. All water receptacles shall be kept clean and sanitary.
§ 3.131
Sanitation.
(a)
Cleaning of enclosures.
Excreta shall be removed from primary enclosures as often as necessary to prevent contamination of the animals contained therein and to minimize disease hazards and to reduce odors. When enclosures are cleaned by hosing or flushing, adequate measures shall be taken to protect the animals confined in such enclosures from being directly sprayed with the stream of water or wetted involuntarily.
(b)
Sanitation of enclosures.
Subsequent to the presence of an animal with an infectious or transmissible disease, cages, rooms, and hard-surfaced pens or runs shall be sanitized either by washing them with hot water (180 F. at source) and soap or detergent, as in a mechanical washer, or by washing all soiled surfaces with a detergent solution followed by a safe and effective disinfectant, or by cleaning all soiled surfaces with saturated live steam under pressure. Pens or runs using gravel, sand, or dirt, shall be sanitized when necessary as directed by the attending veterinarian.
(c)
Housekeeping.
Premises (buildings and grounds) shall be kept clean and in good repair in order to protect the animals from injury and to facilitate the prescribed husbandry practices set forth in this subpart. Accumulations of trash shall be placed in designated areas and cleared as necessary to protect the health of the animals.
(d)
Pest control.
A safe and effective program for the control of insects, ectoparasites, and avian and mammalian pests shall be established and maintained.
§ 3.132
Employees.
A sufficient number of adequately trained employees shall be utilized to maintain the professionally acceptable level of husbandry practices set forth in this subpart. Such practices shall be under a supervisor who has a background in animal care.
§ 3.133
Separation.
Animals housed in the same primary enclosure must be compatible. Animals shall not be housed near animals that interfere with their health or cause them discomfort.
§§ 3.134-3.135
[Reserved]

# Transportation Standards

# Source:
Sections 3.136 through 3.142 appear at 42 FR 31569, June 21, 1977, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 44 FR 36874, July 22, 1979.
§ 3.136
Consignments to carriers and intermediate handlers.
(a) Carriers and intermediate handlers shall not accept any live animals presented by any dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, or other person, or any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or any State or local government for shipment, in commerce, more than 4 hours prior to the scheduled departure of the primary
conveyance on which it is to be transported:
Provided, however,
That the carrier or intermediate handler and any dealer, research facility, exhibitor, operator of an auction sale, or other person, or any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or any State or local government may mutually agree to extend the time of acceptance to not more than 6 hours if specific prior scheduling of the animal shipment to destination has been made.
(b) Any carrier or intermediate handler shall only accept for transportation or transport, in commerce, any live animal in a primary enclosure which conforms to the requirements set forth in § 3.137 of the standards:
Provided, however,
That any carrier or intermediate handler may accept for transportation or transport, in commerce, any live animal consigned by any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States having laboratory animal facilities or exhibiting animals or any licensed or registered dealer, research facility, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale if the consignor furnishes to the carrier or intermediate handler a certificate, signed by the consignor, stating that the primary enclosure complies with § 3.137 of the standards, unless such primary enclosure is obviously defective or damaged and it is apparent that it cannot reasonably be expected to contain the live animal without causing suffering or injury to such live animal. A copy of such certificate shall accompany the shipment to destination. The certificate shall include at least the following information:
(1) Name and address of the consignor;
(2) The number of animals in the primary enclosure(s);
(3) A certifying statement (e.g., “I hereby certify that the ____ (number) primary enclosure(s) which are used to transport the animal(s) in this shipment complies (comply) with USDA standards for primary enclosures (9 CFR part 3).”); and
(4) The signature of the consignor, and date.
(c) Carriers or intermediate handlers whose facilities fail to meet the minimum temperature allowed by the standards may accept for transportation or transport, in commerce, any live animal consigned by any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of any State or local government, or by any person (including any licensee or registrant under the Act, as well as any private individual) if the consignor furnishes to the carrier or intermediate handler a certificate executed by a veterinarian accredited by this Department pursuant to part 160 of this title on a specified date which shall not be more than 10 days prior to delivery of such animal for transportation in commerce, stating that such live animal is acclimated to air temperatures lower than those prescribed in §§ 3.141 and 3.142. A copy of such certificate shall accompany the shipment to destination. The certificate shall include at least the following information:
(1) Name and address of the consignor;
(2) The number of animals in the shipment;
(3) A certifying statement (e.g., “I hereby certify that the animal(s) in this shipment is (are), to the best of my knowledge, acclimated to air temperatures lower than 7.2 °C. (45 °F.)”); and
(4) The signature of the USDA accredited veterinarian, assigned accreditation number, and date.
(d) Carriers and intermediate handlers shall attempt to notify the consignee at least once in every 6 hour period following the arrival of any live animals at the animal holding area of the terminal cargo facility. The time, date, and method of each attempted notification and the final notification to the consignee and the name of the person notifying the consignee shall be recorded on the copy of the shipping document retained by the carrier or intermediate handler and on a copy of the shipping document accompanying the animal shipment.
[42 FR 31569, June 21, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 21166, May 16, 1978. Redesignated at 44 FR 36874, July 22, 1979, and amended at 44 FR 63493, Nov. 2, 1979]
§ 3.137
Primary enclosures used to transport live animals.
No dealer, research facility, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale shall offer for transportation or transport, in commerce, any live animal in a primary enclosure which does not conform to the following requirements:
(a) Primary enclosures, such as compartments, transport cages, cartons, or crates, used to transport live animals shall be constructed in such a manner that (1) the structural strength of the enclosure shall be sufficient to contain the live animals and to withstand the normal rigors of transportation; (2) the interior of the enclosure shall be free from any protrusions that could be injurious to the live animals contained therein; (3) the openings of such enclosures are easily accessible at all times for emergency removal of the live animals; (4) except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, there are ventilation openings located on two opposite walls of the primary enclosure and the ventilation openings on each such wall shall be at least 16 percent of the total surface area of each such wall, or there are ventilation openings located on all four walls of the primary enclosure and the ventilation openings on each such wall shall be at least 8 percent of the total surface area of each such wall:
Provided, however,
That at least one-third of the total minimum area required for ventilation of the primary enclosure shall be located on the lower one-half of the primary enclosure and at least one-third of the total minimum area required for ventilation of the primary enclosure shall be located on the upper one-half of the primary enclosure; (5) except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, projecting rims or other devices shall be on the exterior of the outside walls with any ventilation openings to prevent obstruction of the ventilation openings and to provide a minimum air circulation space of 1.9 centimeters (.75 inch) between the primary enclosure and any adjacent cargo or conveyance wall; and (6) except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, adequate handholds or other devices for lifting shall be provided on the exterior of the primary enclosure to enable the primary enclosure to be lifted without tilting and to ensure that the person handling the primary enclosure will not be in contact with the animal.
(b) Live animals transported in the same primary enclosure shall be of the same species and maintained in compatible groups. Live animals that have not reached puberty shall not be transported in the same primary enclosure with adult animals other than their dams. Socially dependent animals (e.g., sibling, dam, and other members of a family group) must be allowed visual and olfactory contact. Any female animal in season (estrus) shall not be transported in the same primary enclosure with any male animal.
(c) Primary enclosures used to transport live animals shall be large enough to ensure that each animal contained therein has sufficient space to turn about freely and to make normal postural adjustments:
Provided, however,
That certain species may be restricted in their movements according to professionally acceptable standards when such freedom of movement would constitute a danger to the animals, their handlers, or other persons.
(d) Primary enclosures used to transport live animals as provided in this section shall have solid bottoms to prevent leakage in shipment and still be cleaned and sanitized in a manner prescribed in § 3.131 of the standards, if previously used. Such primary enclosures shall contain clean litter of a suitable absorbent material, which is safe and nontoxic to the live animals contained therein, in sufficient quantity to absorb and cover excreta, unless the animals are on wire or other nonsolid floors.
(e) Primary enclosures used to transport live animals, except where such primary enclosures are permanently affixed in the animal cargo space of the primary conveyance, shall be clearly marked on top and on one or more sides with the words “Live Animal” or “Wild Animal”, whichever is appropriate, in letters not less than 2.5 centimeters (1 inch) in height, and with arrows or other markings to indicate the correct upright position of the container.
(f) Documents accompanying the shipment shall be attached in an easily accessible manner to the outside of a
primary enclosure which is part of such shipment.
(g) When a primary enclosure is permanently affixed within the animal cargo space of the primary conveyance so that the front opening is the only source of ventilation for such primary enclosure, the front opening shall open directly to the outside or to an unobstructed aisle or passageway within the primary conveyance. Such front ventilation opening shall be at least 90 percent of the total surface area of the front wall of the primary enclosure and covered with bars, wire mesh or smooth expanded metal.
[42 FR 31569, June 21, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 21166, May 16, 1978. Redesignated at 44 FR 36874, July 22, 1979]
§ 3.138
Primary conveyances (motor vehicle, rail, air, and marine).
(a) The animal cargo space of primary conveyances used in transporting live animals shall be designed and constructed to protect the health, and ensure the safety and comfort of the live animals contained therein at all times.
(b) The animal cargo space shall be constructed and maintained in a manner to prevent the ingress of engine exhaust fumes and gases from the primary conveyance during transportation in commerce.
(c) No live animal shall be placed in an animal cargo space that does not have a supply of air sufficient for normal breathing for each live animal contained therein, and the primary enclosures shall be positioned in the animal cargo space in such a manner that each live animal has access to sufficient air for normal breathing.
(d) Primary enclosures shall be positioned in the primary conveyance in such a manner that in an emergency the live animals can be removed from the primary conveyance as soon as possible.
(e) The interior of the animal cargo space shall be kept clean.
(f) Live animals shall not be transported with any material, substance (e.g., dry ice) or device which may reasonably be expected to be injurious to the health and well-being of the animals unless proper precaution is taken to prevent such injury.
§ 3.139
Food and water requirements.
(a) All live animals shall be offered potable water within 4 hours prior to being transported in commerce. Dealers, exhibitors, research facilities and operators of auction sales shall provide potable water to all live animals transported in their own primary conveyance at least every 12 hours after such transportation is initiated, and carriers and intermediate handlers shall provide potable water to all live animals at least every 12 hours after acceptance for transportation in commerce:
Provided, however,
That except as directed by hibernation, veterinary treatment or other professionally accepted practices, those live animals which, by common accepted practices, require watering more frequently shall be so watered.
(b) Each live animal shall be fed at least once in each 24 hour period, except as directed by hibernation, veterinary treatment, normal fasts, or other professionally accepted practices. Those live animals which, by common accepted practice, require feeding more frequently shall be so fed.
(c) A sufficient quantity of food and water shall accompany the live animal to provide food and water for such animals for a period of at least 24 hours, except as directed by hibernation, veterinary treatment, normal fasts, and other professionally accepted practices.
(d) Any dealer, research facility, exhibitor or operator of an auction sale offering any live animal to any carrier or intermediate handler for transportation in commerce shall affix to the outside of the primary enclosure used for transporting such live animal, written instructions concerning the food and water requirements of such animal while being so transported.
(e) No carrier or intermediate handler shall accept any live animals for transportation in commerce unless written instructions concerning the food and water requirements of such animal while being so transported is affixed to the outside of its primary enclosure.
§ 3.140
Care in transit.
(a) During surface transportation, it shall be the responsibility of the driver
or other employee to visually observe the live animals as frequently as circumstances may dictate, but not less than once every 4 hours, to assure that they are receiving sufficient air for normal breathing, their ambient temperatures are within the prescribed limits, all other applicable standards are being complied with and to determine whether any of the live animals are in obvious physical distress and to provide any needed veterinary care as soon as possible. When transported by air, live animals shall be visually observed by the carrier as frequently as circumstances may dictate, but not less than once every 4 hours, if the animal cargo space is accessible during flight. If the animal cargo space is not accessible during flight, the carrier shall visually observe the live animals whenever loaded and unloaded and whenever the animal cargo space is otherwise accessible to assure that they are receiving sufficient air for normal breathing, their ambient temperatures are within the prescribed limits, all other applicable standards are being complied with and to determine whether any such live animals are in obvious physical distress. The carrier shall provide any needed veterinary care as soon as possible. No animal in obvious physical distress shall be transported in commerce.
(b) Wild or otherwise dangerous animals shall not be taken from their primary enclosure except under extreme emergency conditions:
Provided, however,
That a temporary primary enclosure may be used, if available, and such temporary primary enclosure is structurally strong enough to prevent the escape of the animal. During the course of transportation, in commerce, live animals shall not be removed from their primary enclosures unless placed in other primary enclosures or facilities conforming to the requirements provided in this subpart.
§ 3.141
Terminal facilities.
Carriers and intermediate handlers shall not commingle live animal shipments with inanimate cargo. All animal holding areas of a terminal facility of any carrier or intermediate handler wherein live animal shipments are maintained shall be cleaned and sanitized in a manner prescribed in § 3.141 of the standards often enough to prevent an accumulation of debris or excreta, to minimize vermin infestation and to prevent a disease hazard. An effective program for the control of insects, ectoparasites, and avian and mammalian pests shall be established and maintained for all animal holding areas. Any animal holding area containing live animals shall be provided with fresh air by means of windows, doors vents, or air conditioning and may be ventilated or air circulated by means of fans, blowers, or an air conditioning system so as to minimize drafts, odors, and moisture condensation. Auxiliary ventilation, such as exhaust fans and vents or fans or blowers or air conditioning shall be used for any animal holding area containing live animals when the air temperature within such animal holding area is 23.9 °C. (75.°F.) or higher. The air temperature around any live animal in any animal holding area shall not be allowed to fall below 7.2 °C. (45 °F.) nor be allowed to exceed 29.5 °C. (85 °F.) at any time:
Provided, however,
That no live animal shall be subjected to surrounding air temperatures which exceed 23.9 °C. (75 °F.) for more than 4 hours at any time. To ascertain compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, the air temperature around any live animal shall be measured and read outside the primary enclosure which contains such animal at a distance not to exceed .91 meters (3 feet) from any one of the external walls of the primary enclosure and on a level parallel to the bottom of such primary enclosure at a point which approximates half the distance between the top and bottom of such primary enclosure.
[43 FR 56217, Dec. 1, 1978. Redesignated at 44 FR 36874, July 22, 1979]
§ 3.142
Handling.
(a) Carriers and intermediate handlers shall move live animals from the animal holding area of the terminal facility to the primary conveyance and from the primary conveyance to the
animal holding area of the terminal facility as expeditiously as possible. Carriers and intermediate handlers holding any live animal in an animal holding area of a terminal facility or in transporting any live animal from the animal holding area of the terminal facility to the primary conveyance and from the primary conveyance to the animal holding area of the terminal facility, including loading and unloading procedures, shall provide the following:
(1)
Shelter from sunlight.
When sunlight is likely to cause overheating or discomfort, sufficient shade shall be provided to protect the live animals from the direct rays of the sun and such live animals shall not be subjected to surrounding air temperatures which exceed 29.5 °C. (85 °F), and which shall be measured and read in the manner prescribed in § 3.141 of this part, for a period of more than 45 minutes.
(2)
Shelter from rain or snow.
Live animals shall be provided protection to allow them to remain dry during rain or snow.
(3)
Shelter from cold weather.
Transporting devices shall be covered to provide protection for live animals when the outdoor air temperature falls below 10 °C. (50 °F) and such live animals shall not be subjected to surrounding air temperatures which fall below 7.2 °C. (45 °F.), and which shall be measured and read in the manner prescribed in § 3.141 of this part, for a period of more than 45 minutes unless such animals are accompanied by a certificate of acclimation to lower temperatures as prescribed in § 3.136(c).
(b) Care shall be exercised to avoid handling of the primary enclosure in such a manner that may cause physical or emotional trauma to the live animal contained therein.
(c) Primary enclosures used to transport any live animal shall not be tossed, dropped, or needlessly tilted and shall not be stacked in a manner which may reasonably be expected to result in their falling.
[43 FR 21167, May 16, 1978, as amended at 43 FR 56217, Dec. 1, 1978. Redesignated at 44 FR 36874, July 22, 1979]

# Subpart G—Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment, and Transportation of Birds

# Source:
88 FR 10714, Feb. 21, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

# Facilities and Operating Standards
§ 3.150
Facilities, general.
(a)
Structure; construction.
Housing facilities for birds must be designed and constructed so that they are structurally sound for the species of bird housed in them. They must be kept in good repair, protect the birds from injury, and restrict other animals from entering that may negatively affect the welfare of the birds within. Housing facilities must employ security measures that contain all birds securely. Such measures may include safety doors, entry/exit doors to the primary enclosure that are double-door, or other equivalent systems designed to prevent escape of the birds. Birds that are flight-restricted or cannot fly and are allowed to roam free within the housing facility or a portion thereof must have access to safety pens, enclosures, or other areas that offer the birds protection during overnight periods and at times when their activities are not monitored.
(b)
Condition and site.
Housing facilities and areas used for storing animal food or bedding must be free of any accumulation of trash, waste material, other discarded materials, junk, weeds, and brush. Housing facilities must be kept neat and free of clutter, including equipment, furniture, and stored material, but may contain materials actually used and necessary for cleaning the area, and fixtures or equipment necessary for proper husbandry practices or research needs.
(c)
Surfaces.
The surfaces of housing facilities must be constructed in a manner and made of materials that allow them to be readily cleaned and/or sanitized, or removed and replaced when worn or soiled. Interior surfaces and surfaces that come in contact with birds must be:
(1) Nontoxic to the bird;
(2) Free of rust or damage that affects the structural integrity of the surface or prevents cleaning; and
(3) Free of jagged edges or sharp points that could injure the birds.
(d)
Water and electric power.
The facility must have reliable electrical power adequate for heating, cooling, ventilation, and lighting, if necessary, or for carrying out other husbandry requirements in accordance with the regulations in this subpart. The facility must provide adequate potable water for the birds' drinking needs and water for cleaning and for carrying out other husbandry requirements in accordance with the regulations in this subpart.
(e)
Storage.
Supplies of food, including food supplements, bedding, and substrate must be stored in a manner that protects the supplies from deterioration, spoilage (harmful microbial growth), contamination, and vermin infestation. The supplies must be stored off the floor and away from the walls, to allow cleaning underneath and around the supplies. All food must be stored in a manner that prevents deterioration of its nutritive value. Live food must be maintained in a manner to ensure wholesomeness. Substances such as cleaning supplies and disinfectants that are harmful to the birds but that are required for normal husbandry practices must not be stored in food storage and preparation areas but may be stored in cabinets in the animal areas, provided that they are stored in properly labeled containers that are adequately secured to prevent potential harm to the birds. Animal waste and dead animals and animal parts not intended for food must not be kept in food storage or food preparation areas, food freezers, food refrigerators, and animal areas.
(f)
Waste disposal.
Housing facility operators must provide for regular and frequent collection, removal, and disposal of animal and food wastes, substrate, dead animals, debris, garbage, water, and any other fluids and wastes, in a manner that minimizes contamination and disease risk. Trash containers in housing facilities and in food storage and preparation areas must be able to contain trash securely to minimize odors and be inaccessible to animals and pests.
(g)
Drainage.
Housing facilities must be equipped with disposal and drainage systems that are constructed and operated so that animal wastes and water, except for water located in pools or other aquatic areas (
e.g.,
ponds, waterfalls, fountains, and other water features), are rapidly eliminated so the animals have the option of remaining dry. Pools and other aquatic areas must be maintained in accordance with the regulations in § 3.157. Disposal and drainage systems must minimize vermin and pest infestation, insects, odors, and disease hazards. All drains must be properly constructed, installed, and maintained so that they effectively drain water. If closed drainage systems are used, they must be equipped with traps and prevent the backflow of gases and the backup of sewage. If the facility uses sump ponds, settlement ponds, or other similar systems for drainage and animal waste disposal, the system must be located a sufficient distance from the bird area of the housing facility to prevent odors, diseases, insects, pests, and vermin infestation in the bird area. If drip or constant flow watering devices are used to provide water to the animals, excess water must be rapidly drained out of the animal areas by gutters, pipes, or other methods so that the animals have the option of remaining dry.
(h)
Toilets, washrooms, and sinks.
Toilets and washing facilities such as washrooms, basins, sinks, or showers must be provided for animal caretakers and must be readily accessible.
§ 3.151
Facilities, indoor.
(a)
Temperature and humidity.
The air temperature and, if present, pool or other aquatic area (
e.g.,
ponds, waterfalls, fountains, and other water features), and air humidity levels in indoor facilities must be sufficiently regulated and appropriate to bird species to protect the birds from detrimental temperature and humidity levels, to provide for their health and well-being, and to prevent discomfort or distress, in accordance with current professionally accepted standards.
(b)
Ventilation.
Indoor housing facilities must be sufficiently ventilated at
all times when birds are present to provide for their health, to prevent their discomfort or distress, and to minimize accumulations of moisture condensation, odors, and levels of ammonia, chlorine, and other noxious gases. The ventilation system must minimize drafts.
(c)
Lighting.
Indoor housing facilities must have lighting, by natural or artificial means, or both, of appropriate quality, distribution, and duration for the species of birds involved. Such lighting must be sufficient to permit routine inspection and cleaning. Lighting of primary enclosures must be designed to protect the birds from excessive illumination that may cause discomfort or distress.
(d)
Indoor pool or other aquatic areas.
Indoor pools or other aquatic areas (
e.g.,
ponds, waterfalls, fountains, and other water features) must have sufficient vertical air space above the pool or other aquatic area to allow for behaviors typical to the species of bird under consideration. Such behaviors may include, but are not limited to, diving and swimming.
§ 3.152
Facilities, outdoor.
(a)
Acclimation.
Birds may not be housed in outdoor facilities unless the air humidity and temperature ranges and, if applicable, pool or other aquatic area (
e.g.,
ponds, waterfalls, fountains, and other water features) temperature ranges do not adversely affect bird health and comfort. Birds may not be introduced to an outdoor housing facility until they are acclimated to the ambient temperature and humidity and, if applicable, pool or other aquatic area temperature range which they will encounter therein.
(b)
Shelter from inclement weather.
Outdoor housing facilities must provide adequate shelter, appropriate to the species and physical condition of the birds, for the local climatic conditions to protect the birds from any adverse weather conditions. Shelters must be adequately ventilated in hot weather and have one or more separate areas of shade or other effective protection that is large enough to comfortably contain all the birds at one time and prevent their discomfort from direct sunlight, precipitation, or wind. Shelter must also be constructed to provide sufficient space to comfortably hold all of the birds at the same time without adverse intraspecific aggression or grouping of incompatible birds. For birds that form dominance hierarchies and that are maintained in social groupings, shelter(s) must be constructed so as to provide sufficient space to comfortably hold all the birds at the same time, including birds that are low in the hierarchy.
§ 3.153
Primary enclosures.
(a)
General requirements.
Primary enclosures must be designed and constructed of suitable materials so that they are structurally sound. The primary enclosures must be kept in good repair.
(1) Primary enclosures must be constructed and maintained so that they:
(i) Have no sharp points or edges that could injure the birds;
(ii) Protect the birds from injury;
(iii) Contain the birds securely;
(iv) Restrict other animals from entering the enclosure;
(v) Ensure that birds have the option to remain dry and clean;
(vi) Provide shelter and protection for each bird from climatic and environmental conditions that may be detrimental to its health and well-being;
(vii) Provide sufficient shade to comfortably shelter all birds housed in the primary enclosure at one time, including low ranking birds that are maintained in social groupings that form dominance hierarchies;
(viii) Provide all the birds with easy and convenient access to clean food and potable water;
(ix) Ensure that all surfaces in contact with the birds may be readily cleaned and/or sanitized in accordance with § 3.158 or be replaced when worn or soiled; and
(x) Have floors that are constructed in a manner that protects the birds' feet and legs from injury. If flooring material is suspended, it must be sufficiently taut to prevent excessive sagging under the bird's weight. If substrate is used in the primary enclosure, the substrate must be clean and made of a suitably absorbent material that is safe and nontoxic to the birds.
(2) Furniture-type objects, such as perches and other objects that enrich a bird's environment, must be species-appropriate and be designed, constructed, and maintained so as to prevent harm to the bird. If the enclosure houses birds that rest by perching, there must be perches available that are appropriate to the age and species of birds housed therein and a sufficient number of perches of appropriate size, shape, strength, texture, and placement to comfortably hold all the birds in the primary enclosure at the same time, including birds that are ranked low in a dominance hierarchy.
(3) Primary enclosures that are adjacent to one another or that share a common side with another enclosure must be suitably screened from each other or kept at a sufficient distance apart in order to prevent injury of the occupants due to predation, territorial disputes, or aggression.
(b)
Space requirements.
Primary enclosures must be constructed and maintained so as to allow each bird to make normal postural and social adjustments, such as dust-bathing and foraging, with adequate freedom of movement and freedom to escape from aggression demonstrated by other animals. Both part-time and full-time attending veterinarians at a facility must consult with the facility to ensure that the space in all enclosures housing birds is adequate and allows for normal postural and social adjustments. Inadequate space may be indicated by evidence of malnutrition, poor condition, debility, stress, or abnormal behavior patterns. The normal postural and social adjustments of a bird may be restricted:
(1) When the attending veterinarian determines that making species-typical postural or social adjustments, such as dust-bathing, foraging, or running, would be detrimental to the bird's good health and well-being. The attending veterinarian must document the reason and recommended duration for the restriction and make such records available for review by an APHIS inspector.
(2) When the birds are tethered in accordance with current professionally accepted standards. Birds must not be tethered unless:
(i) It is appropriate for the species of bird;
(ii) It will not cause harm to the birds;
(iii) The birds are maintained on perches appropriate for the species and age of the bird while tethered;
(iv) The birds have sufficient space to fully extend their wings without obstruction; and
(v) The tether does not entangle the birds.
(3) When dealers, exhibitors, and research facilities breed or intend to breed their birds, such birds must be provided with structures and/or materials that meet the reproductive needs of the species during the appropriate season or time periods. A sufficient number of structures and materials must be provided to meet the needs of all breeding birds in an enclosure and to minimize aggression.
(4) Birds intended for breeding, sale, in need of medical care, exhibited in traveling exhibits, or traveling for other reasons must be kept in enclosures that, at minimum, meet the individual specific space, safety, bedding, perch, and physical environment (including, but not limited to, temperature, humidity, sun and wind exposure) requirements for transport enclosures as specified in § 3.162. At all other times, birds must be housed in enclosures that meet the space requirements of this section.
(c)
Special space requirements for wading and aquatic birds.
Primary enclosures housing wading and aquatic birds must contain a pool or other aquatic area (
e.g.,
ponds, waterfalls, fountains, and other water features) and a dry area that allows easy ingress or egress of the pool or other aquatic area. Pools and other aquatic areas must be of sufficient surface area and depth to allow each bird to make normal postural and social adjustments, such as immersion, bathing, swimming, and foraging, with adequate freedom of movement and freedom to escape from aggression demonstrated by other birds in the enclosure. Dry areas must be of sufficient size to allow each bird to make normal postural and social adjustments with adequate freedom of movement and freedom to escape from aggression
demonstrated by other birds in the enclosure. Inadequate space may be indicated by evidence of malnutrition, poor condition, debility, stress, or abnormal behavior patterns.
§ 3.154
Environment enhancement to promote psychological well-being.
Dealers, exhibitors, and research facilities must develop, document, and follow a species-appropriate plan for environment enhancement adequate to promote the psychological well-being of birds. The plan must be approved by the attending veterinarian and must be in accordance with the regulations in this subpart and with currently accepted professional standards as cited in appropriate professional journals or reference guides. This plan must be made available to APHIS upon request, and, in the case of research facilities, to officials of any pertinent funding agency. The plan, at a minimum, must address each of the following:
(a)
Social grouping.
The environment enhancement plan must include specific provisions to address the social needs of species of birds known to exist in social groups in nature. Such specific provisions must be in accordance with currently accepted professional standards as cited in appropriate professional journals or reference guides. The plan may provide for the following exceptions:
(1) If a bird exhibits vicious or overly aggressive behavior, or is debilitated as a result of age or other conditions (
e.g.,
arthritis), it can be housed separately;
(2) Additionally, birds that have or are suspected of having a contagious disease must be isolated from healthy animals in the colony as directed by the attending veterinarian. When an entire group or room of birds is known to have been or believed to be exposed to an infectious agent, the group may be kept intact during the process of diagnosis, treatment, and control.
(3) Birds may not be housed with other species of birds or animals unless they are compatible, do not prevent access to food, water, or shelter by individual animals, and are not known to be hazardous to the health and well-being of each other. Compatibility of birds must be determined in accordance with generally accepted professional practices and actual observations as directed by the attending veterinarian, to ensure that the birds are in fact compatible. Individually housed social species of birds must be able to see and hear birds of their own or compatible species unless the attending veterinarian determines that it would endanger their health, safety, or well-being. If individually housed social species of birds are unable to see and hear birds of their own or compatible species then special attention regarding enhancement to their environment must be provided as specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(b)
Environmental enrichment.
The physical environment in the primary enclosures must be enriched by materials or activities that would provide the birds with the means to express noninjurious species-typical activities. Species differences should be considered when determining the type or methods of enrichment. Examples of environmental enrichments include providing perches, swings, mirrors, and other increased cage complexities; providing objects to manipulate; varied food items; using foraging or task-oriented feeding methods; and providing interaction with the care giver or other familiar and knowledgeable person consistent with personnel safety precautions.
(c)
Special considerations.
Certain birds must be provided special attention regarding enhancement of their environment, based on the needs of the individual species and/or individual bird and in accordance with the instructions of the attending veterinarian. Birds requiring special attention are the following:
(1) Nestlings, chicks, or fledglings;
(2) Those that show signs of being in psychological distress through behavior or appearance;
(3) Those used in research for which the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC)-approved protocol requires restricted activity; and
(4) Individually housed social species of birds that are unable to see and hear birds of their own or compatible species.
(d)
Restraint devices.
Birds must not be permitted to be maintained in restraint devices unless required for
health reasons as determined by the attending veterinarian or by a research proposal approved by the IACUC at research facilities. Any restraining actions must be for the shortest period possible. If the bird is to be restrained for more than 12 hours, it must be provided the opportunity daily for unrestrained activity for at least 1 continuous hour during the period of restraint, unless continuous restraint is required by the research proposal approved by the IACUC at research facilities.
(e)
Exemptions.
(1) The attending veterinarian may exempt an individual bird from participation in the environment enhancement plan because of its health or condition, or in consideration of its well-being. The basis of the exemption must be recorded by the attending veterinarian for each exempted bird. Unless the basis for the exemption is a permanent condition, the exemption must be reviewed at least every 30 days by the attending veterinarian.
(2) For a research facility, the IACUC may exempt an individual bird from participation in some or all of the otherwise required environment enhancement plans for scientific reasons set forth in the research proposal. The basis of the exemption shall be documented in the approved proposal and must be reviewed at appropriate intervals as determined by the IACUC, but not less than annually.
(3) Records of any exemptions must be maintained by the dealer, exhibitor, or research facility for at least 1 year in accordance with § 3.81(e)(3) and must be made available to APHIS upon request, and, in the case of research facilities, to officials of any pertinent funding agency.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0486)

# Animal Health and Husbandry Standards
§ 3.155
Feeding.
(a) The diet for birds must be appropriate for the species, size, age, and condition of the bird. The food must be wholesome, palatable to the birds, and free of contamination. It must be of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to maintain a healthy condition and weight range of the bird and to meet its normal daily nutritional requirements. Birds must be fed at least once a day except as directed by the attending veterinarian, normal fasts, or other professionally accepted practices. If birds are maintained in group housing, measures appropriate for the species must be taken to ensure that all the birds receive a sufficient quantity of food.
(b) Food and, if used, food receptacles must be readily accessible to all the birds being fed. Food and any food receptacles must be located so as to minimize any risk of contamination by excreta, precipitation, and pests. Food receptacles and feeding areas must be kept clean and sanitized in accordance with § 3.158. Used food receptacles must be cleaned and sanitized before they can be used to provide food to birds maintained in a separate enclosure. Measures must be taken to ensure there is no molding, deterioration, contamination, or caking or undesirable wetting or freezing of food within or on food receptacles. Food receptacles must be made of a durable material that can be easily cleaned and sanitized or be replaceable when worn or soiled. Group-housed birds must have multiple food receptacles where needed to ensure that all birds have access to sufficient feed.
§ 3.156
Watering.
Potable water must be provided in sufficient quantity to every bird housed at the facility, unless restricted by the attending veterinarian. If potable water is not continually available to the birds, it must be offered to them as often as necessary to ensure their health and well-being. Water receptacles must be kept clean and sanitized in accordance with § 3.158 as often as necessary to keep them clean and free of contamination. Used water receptacles must be cleaned and sanitized before they may be used to provide water to birds maintained in a separate enclosure. Group-housed birds must have multiple water receptacles where needed to ensure that all birds have access to sufficient water.
§ 3.157
Water quality.
(a) The primary enclosure or any other area in which birds may enter must not contain pools or other aquatic areas (
e.g.,
ponds, waterfalls, fountains, and other water features) that are detrimental to the health of the birds contained therein.
(1) Particulate animal and food waste, trash, or debris that enters the pool or other aquatic area must be removed as often as necessary to maintain the required water quality and minimize health hazards to the birds.
(2) Pools or other aquatic areas with drainage systems must provide adequate drainage and must be located so that all of the water contained in such pools or other aquatic areas may be effectively eliminated when necessary for cleaning the pool or other aquatic area or for other purposes. Pools or other aquatic areas without drainage systems must be aerated and have an incoming flow of fresh water or be managed in a manner that maintains appropriate water quality in accordance with current professionally accepted standards appropriate for the species.
(b) When the water is chemically treated, the chemicals must be added in a manner that does not cause harm, discomfort, or distress to the animals. Should birds appear to be harmed by water quality, appropriate action must be taken immediately.
(c) Pools and other aquatic areas must be salinized for birds that require such water for their good health and well-being in accordance with current professionally accepted standards.
§ 3.158
Cleaning, sanitization, housekeeping, and pest control.
(a)
Cleaning.
(1) Excreta and food waste must be removed from primary enclosures and from under and around primary enclosures as often as necessary to prevent excessive accumulation of feces and food waste, to prevent soiling of the birds contained in the primary enclosures, and to reduce disease hazards, insects, pests, and odors. When steam or water is used to clean primary enclosures, measures must be taken to protect birds from being harmed, wetted involuntarily, or distressed in the process. Standing water, except for such water in pools or other aquatic areas (
e.g.,
ponds, waterfalls, fountains, and other water features), must be removed from the primary enclosure.
(2) Scheduled cleaning may be modified or delayed during breeding, egg-sitting, or feeding of chicks for birds that are easily disrupted during such behaviors. Scheduled cleaning must resume when such cleaning no longer disrupts breeding, egg-sitting, or feeding of chicks. A schedule of cleaning must be documented and must include when breeding season began, when the primary enclosure was last cleaned, and when cleaning is expected to resume. Such records must be available for review by an APHIS inspector.
(b)
Sanitization.
(1) Primary enclosures and food and water receptacles for birds must be sanitized as often as necessary to prevent accumulation of dirt, debris, food waste, excreta, and other disease hazards.
Provided, however,
that sanitization may be modified or delayed during breeding, egg-sitting, or feeding of chicks for those birds that are easily disrupted during such behaviors. Sanitization must resume when such activity no longer disrupts breeding, egg-sitting, or feeding of chicks. A schedule of sanitization must be documented that includes when breeding season began, when the primary enclosure was last sanitized, and when sanitization is expected to resume. Such records must be available for review by an APHIS inspector.
(2) The hard surfaces of primary enclosures and food and water areas and equipment must be sanitized before a new bird is brought into a housing facility or if there is evidence of infectious disease among the birds in the housing facility.
(3) Primary enclosures using materials that cannot be sanitized using conventional methods, such as gravel, sand, grass, earth, planted areas, or absorbent bedding, must be sanitized by removing all contaminated material as necessary or by establishing a natural composting and decomposition system that is sufficient to prevent wasted food accumulation, odors, disease, pests, insects, and vermin infestation.
(c)
Housekeeping for premises.
Premises where housing facilities are located, including buildings, surrounding grounds, and exhibit areas, must be kept clean and in good repair in order to protect the birds from injury and disease, to facilitate the husbandry practices required in this subpart, and to reduce or eliminate breeding and living areas for rodents, pests, and vermin. Premises must be kept free of accumulations of trash, junk, waste products, and discarded matter. Weeds, grasses, and bushes must be controlled so as to facilitate cleaning of the premises and pest control, and to protect the health and well-being of the birds.
(d)
Pest control.
A safe and effective program for the control of insects, ectoparasites, and avian and mammalian pests must be established and maintained so as to promote the health and well-being of the birds and reduce contamination by pests in animal areas. Insecticides, chemical agents, or other pest control products that may be harmful to the birds must not be applied to primary enclosures and other bird contact surfaces unless the application is consistent with manufacturer recommendations or otherwise approved for use and does not harm birds.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0486)
§ 3.159
Employees.
A sufficient number of adequately trained employees or attendants must be utilized to maintain the professionally acceptable level of husbandry and handling practices set forth in this subpart. Such practices must be conducted under the supervision of a bird caretaker who has appropriate experience in the husbandry and care of birds that are being managed in a given setting.
§ 3.160
Compatibility and separation.
(a) Socially dependent birds, such as clutch-mates, must be housed in social groups, except where the attending veterinarian exempts an individual bird because of its health or condition, or in consideration of its well-being, or for specific management needs, or where such social grouping is not in accordance with a research proposal and the proposal has been approved by the research facility IACUC.
(b) Birds may not be housed with other animals, including members of their own species, unless they are compatible, do not prevent access to food, water, or shelter by individual animals, and are not known to be hazardous to the health and well-being of each other. Compatibility must be determined in accordance with generally accepted professional practices and by actual observations to ensure that the birds are, in fact, compatible.
(c) Birds that have or are suspected of having a contagious disease or communicable condition must be separated from healthy animals that are susceptible to the disease as directed by the attending veterinarian.

# Transportation Standards
§ 3.161
Consignments to carriers and intermediate handlers.
(a) Carriers and intermediate handlers must not accept a live bird for transport in commerce more than 4 hours before the scheduled departure time of the primary conveyance on which the animal is to be transported. However, a carrier or intermediate handler may agree with anyone consigning a bird to extend this time by up to 2 hours if specific prior scheduling of the animal shipment to a destination has been made, provided that the extension is not detrimental to the health and well-being of the bird as determined by the consignor.
(b) Carriers and intermediate handlers must not accept a live bird for transport in commerce unless they are provided with the name, address, and telephone number of the consignee.
(c) Carriers and intermediate handlers must not accept a live weaned bird for transport in commerce unless the consignor certifies in writing to the carrier or intermediate handler that the bird was offered food and water during the 4 hours prior to delivery to the carrier or intermediate handler; provision for unweaned birds is made in paragraph (g) of this section. The certification must be securely attached to the outside of the primary enclosure in a manner that makes it
easy to notice and read. The certification must include the following information for each live bird:
(1) The consignor's name, address, telephone number, and email address;
(2) The number of birds;
(3) The species or common names of the birds;
(4) The time and date the bird was last fed and watered and the specific instructions for the next feeding(s) and watering(s) for a 24-hour period; and
(5) The consignor's signature and the date and time the certification was signed.
(d) Carriers and intermediate handlers must not accept a live bird for transport in commerce unless the primary enclosure in which the birds are contained meets the requirements of § 3.162. A carrier or intermediate handler must not accept a live bird for transport if the primary enclosure is defective or damaged and cannot be expected to contain the bird safely and comfortably.
(e) Carriers and intermediate handlers shall not accept a live bird for transport in commerce unless their animal holding area maintains climatic and environmental conditions in accordance with the requirements of § 3.168.
(f) Carriers and intermediate handlers must attempt to notify the consignee at least once in every 6-hour period following the arrival of any live birds at the bird holding area of the terminal cargo facility. The time, date, and method of each attempted notification and the final notification to the consignee and the name of the person notifying the consignee must be recorded on the copy of the shipping document retained by the carrier or intermediate handler and on a copy of the shipping document accompanying the bird shipment. If delays will cause the shipment to arrive more than 12 hours later than its originally scheduled arrival, the carrier or intermediate handler must contact the consignor or the consignee to notify them of the delay of the live shipment and to determine the necessity or methods to supply fresh food, water, or moisture-providing foods.
(g) Carriers and intermediate handlers must not accept unweaned birds for transport unless transport instructions to ensure the health and well-being of the birds are specified and written by the attending veterinarian, and signed within 10 days of shipment.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0486)
[88 FR 10714, Feb. 21, 2023; 88 FR 16173, Mar. 16, 2023]
§ 3.162
Primary enclosures used to transport live birds.
Any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (this part and parts 1 and 2 of this subchapter) must not transport or deliver for transport in commerce a bird unless the following requirements are met:
(a)
Construction of primary enclosures.
The bird must be contained in a primary enclosure such as a compartment, transport cage, carton, or crate. Primary enclosures used to transport birds must be constructed so that:
(1) The primary enclosure is strong enough to contain the bird securely and comfortably and to withstand the normal rigors of transportation;
(2) The interior of the enclosure has no sharp points or edges and no protrusions that could injure the bird contained therein;
(3) The bird is at all times securely contained within the enclosure and cannot put any part of its body outside the enclosure in a way that could result in injury to itself, to handlers, or to other persons or to animals nearby;
(4) The bird can be easily and quickly removed from the enclosure in an emergency;
(5) Unless the enclosure is permanently affixed to the conveyance, adequate handholds or other devices such as handles are provided on its exterior, and enable the enclosure to be lifted without tilting it, and ensure that anyone handling the enclosure will not be in contact with the bird contained inside;
(6) Unless the enclosure is permanently affixed to the conveyance, it is clearly marked on top and on one or more sides with the words “Live Animals,” in letters at least 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) high, and with arrows or other markings to indicate the correct upright position of the primary enclosure;
(7) Any material, treatment, paint, preservative, or other chemical used in or on the enclosure is nontoxic to the bird and not harmful to its health or well-being;
(8) A bird that has a fractious or stress-prone disposition must be contained in an enclosure that is padded on the top and sides and has protective substrate on the bottom to prevent injury to the bird during transport;
(9) Proper ventilation is provided to the animal in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section; and
(10) The primary enclosure has a solid, leak-proof bottom or a removable, leak-proof collection tray. If a mesh or other nonsolid floor is used in the enclosure, it must be designed and constructed so that the bird cannot put any part of its body through the holes in the mesh or the openings in the nonsolid floor. If substrate (newspaper, towels, litter, straw, etc.) is used in the primary enclosure, the substrate must be clean and made of a suitably absorbent material that is safe and nontoxic to the birds.
(b)
Ventilation.
(1) Unless the primary enclosure is permanently affixed to the conveyance, there must be ventilation openings located on two vertical walls of the primary enclosure that are at least 16 percent of the surface area of each such wall or ventilation openings located on all four walls of the primary enclosure that are at least 8 percent of the total surface area of each such wall.
(2) Unless the primary enclosure is permanently affixed to the conveyance, projecting rims or other devices must be on the exterior of the outside walls with any ventilation openings to prevent obstruction of the ventilation openings. The projecting rims or similar devices must be large enough to provide a minimum air circulation space of 0.75 inches (1.9 centimeters) between the primary enclosure and anything the enclosure is adjacent to, unless 90 percent or greater of the surface area of the enclosure wall is open (
e.g.,
cage mesh).
(3) Any visually obscuring mesh used to provide security for the bird in the enclosure must not interfere with proper ventilation.
(4) If a primary enclosure is permanently affixed within the animal cargo space of the primary conveyance so that the front opening is the only source of ventilation for such primary enclosure, the front opening must open directly to the outside or to an unobstructed aisle or passageway within the primary conveyance. Such front ventilation opening must be at least 90 percent of the total surface area of the front wall of the primary enclosure and covered with bars, wire mesh, or smooth expanded metal.
(c)
Cleaning of primary enclosures.
A primary enclosure used to hold or transport birds in commerce must be cleaned and sanitized before each use in accordance with § 3.158 by the dealer, research facility, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale.
(d)
Compatibility.
Live birds transported in the same primary enclosure must be of the same species or compatible species and maintained in compatible groups. If more than one bird is being transported, socially dependent birds must be able to see and hear each other.
(e)
Space and placement.
Primary enclosures used to transport live birds must be large enough to ensure that each bird contained therein has sufficient space to turn about freely and to make normal postural adjustments;
Provided, however,
That certain species may be restricted in their movements according to professionally accepted standards when such freedom of movement would constitute a danger to the birds, their handlers, or other persons.
(f)
Accompanying documents and records.
Documents accompanying the shipment must be attached in an easily accessible manner to the outside of a primary enclosure which is part of such shipment and must not obstruct ventilation openings.
§ 3.163
Primary conveyances (motor vehicle, rail, air, and marine).
(a) The animal cargo space of primary conveyances used in transporting live birds must be designed, constructed, and maintained in a manner that at all times protects the health and well-being of the animals transported in them, ensures their safety and comfort, and prevents the entry of
exhaust from the primary conveyance during transportation.
(b) The animal cargo space must have a supply of air that is sufficient for the normal breathing of all the animals being transported in it.
(c) Each primary enclosure containing birds must be positioned in the animal cargo space in a manner that provides protection from the elements and that allows each bird enough air for normal breathing.
(d) During transportation, the climatic conditions in the animal cargo area shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements of § 3.168.
(e) Primary enclosures must be positioned in the primary conveyance in a manner that allows the birds to be quickly and easily removed from the primary conveyance in an emergency.
(f) The interior of the bird cargo space must be kept clean.
(g) Live birds may not be transported with any material, substance (
e.g.,
dry ice), or device which may reasonably be expected to be injurious to the health and well-being of the birds unless proper precaution is taken to prevent such injury.
§ 3.164
Food and water requirements.
(a) All weaned birds must be offered food and potable water within 4 hours before being transported in commerce, unless the attending veterinarian approves a delay or a delay is in accordance with professionally accepted standards.
(b) Dealers, exhibitors, research facilities, and operators of auction sales must provide potable water to all weaned birds transported in their own primary conveyance at least every 12 hours after such transportation is initiated, except for birds which, according to professionally accepted standards or under the direction of the attending veterinarian, require watering or feeding more or less frequently. Carriers and intermediate handlers must provide potable water to all live, weaned birds at least every 12 hours after accepting them for transportation in commerce, except for birds which, according to professionally accepted standards or under the direction of the attending veterinarian, require watering or feeding more or less frequently.
(c) All weaned birds must be fed at least once in each 24-hour period, except as directed by veterinary treatment, normal fasts, or other professionally accepted standards. Birds that require feeding more or less frequently must be fed accordingly.
(d) A sufficient quantity of food and water or other source of hydration must accompany the bird to provide food and water for such bird during period of transport, except as directed by veterinary treatment and other professionally accepted standards.
(e) Any dealer, research facility, exhibitor, or operator of an auction sale offering any live bird to any carrier or intermediate handler for transportation in commerce must securely affix to the outside of the primary enclosure used for transporting the bird written instructions for the in-transit food and water requirements of the bird contained in the enclosure. The instructions must be attached in accordance with § 3.162(f) and in a manner that makes them easily noticed and read.
(f) No carrier or intermediate handler may accept any live bird for transportation in commerce unless written instructions concerning the food and water requirements of such bird while being so transported is affixed to the outside of its primary enclosure. The instructions must be attached in accordance with § 3.162(f) and in a manner that makes them easily noticed and read.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0486)
§ 3.165
Care in transit.
(a)
Surface transportation (ground and water).
During surface transportation, any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations in this part and parts 1 and 2 of this subchapter transporting birds in commerce must ensure that the operator of the conveyance, or a person accompanying the operator, visually observes the birds as frequently as circumstances may allow, but not less than once every 4 hours, to ensure that the birds are receiving sufficient air for normal breathing, that climatic and environmental conditions are being maintained in accordance with
the requirements in § 3.168, and that all other applicable standards are met. The regulated person must ensure that the operator or person accompanying the operator determines whether any of the birds are in physical distress and obtains any veterinary care needed for the birds as soon as possible.
(b)
Air transportation.
When transported by air, live birds must be visually observed by the carrier as frequently as circumstances may allow, but not less than once every 4 hours, if the animal cargo space is accessible during flight. If the animal cargo space is not accessible during flight, the carrier must visually observe the live birds whenever they are loaded and unloaded and whenever the bird cargo space is otherwise accessible to ensure that they are receiving sufficient air for normal breathing, that climatic and environmental conditions are being maintained in accordance with the requirements in § 3.168, and that all other applicable standards are met. The carrier must determine whether any such live birds are in physical distress and arrange for any needed veterinary care as soon as possible.
(c)
Prohibition on the transport of ill, injured, or distressed birds.
Any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations in this part and parts 1 and 2 of this subchapter may not transport in commerce birds that are ill, injured, or in physical distress, except to receive veterinary care for the condition.
§ 3.166
Terminal facilities.
(a)
Placement.
Carriers and intermediate handlers must not commingle shipments of live birds with other animals or inanimate cargo in animal holding areas of terminal facilities.
(b)
Cleaning, sanitization, and pest control.
All animal holding areas of terminal facilities must be cleaned and sanitized in a manner prescribed in § 3.158 as often as necessary to prevent an accumulation of debris or excreta and to minimize vermin infestation and disease hazards. Terminal facilities must follow an effective program in all animal holding areas for the control of insects, ectoparasites, and other pests of birds.
(c)
Ventilation.
Ventilation must be provided in any animal holding area in a terminal facility containing birds, by means of windows, doors, vents, or air conditioning. The air must be circulated by fans, blowers, or air conditioning so as to minimize drafts, odors, and moisture condensation.
(d)
Climatic and environmental conditions.
The climatic and environmental conditions in an animal holding area containing live birds shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements of § 3.168.
§ 3.167
Handling.
(a) Any person subject to the Animal Welfare regulations (this part and parts 1 and 2 of this subchapter) who moves (including loading and unloading) live birds within, to, or from the animal holding area of a terminal facility or a primary conveyance must do so as quickly and efficiently as possible and must provide the following during movement of the live birds:
(1)
Shelter from sunlight and extreme heat.
Sufficient shade shall be provided to protect the live birds from the direct rays of the sun.
(2)
Shelter from rain and snow.
Sufficient protection shall be provided to allow the live birds the option to remain dry during rain, snow, and other precipitation.
(3)
Climatic and environmental conditions.
Climatic and environmental conditions during movement shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements of § 3.168.
(b) Any person handling a primary enclosure containing a live bird must use care and must avoid causing physical harm or distress to the bird.
(c) A primary enclosure containing a live bird must not be tossed, dropped, or tilted, and must not be stacked in a manner which may reasonably be expected to result in its falling.
§ 3.168
Climatic and environmental conditions during transportation.
(a)(1) Transportation of all live birds shall be done in a manner that does not cause overheating, excessive cooling, or adverse environmental conditions that could cause discomfort or stress.
When climatic or environmental conditions, including temperature, humidity, exposure, ventilation, pressurization, time, or other environmental conditions, or any combination thereof, present a threat to the health or well-being of a live bird, appropriate measures must be taken immediately to alleviate the impact of those conditions. The different climatic and environmental factors prevailing during a journey must be considered when arranging for the transportation of and when transporting live birds. Corrections may include, but would not be limited to:
(i) The temperature and humidity level of any enclosure used during transportation of live birds must be controlled by adequate ventilation or any other means necessary;
(ii) Appropriate care must be taken to ensure that live birds are not subjected to prolonged drafts detrimental to their health or well-being;
(iii) Appropriate care must be taken to ensure that live birds are not exposed to direct heat or cold if detrimental to their health or well-being; and
(iv) During prolonged air transit stops in local climatic conditions that could produce excessive heat for live birds held in aircraft compartments, the aircraft doors must be opened and, if necessary, equipment must be used to control the condition of the air within compartments containing live birds.
(2) In order to determine what climatic and environmental conditions are appropriate for a live bird, factors such as, but not limited to, the bird's age, species, physiological state, last feeding and watering, and acclimation shall be considered when such information is available.
(b) Birds that are not able to maintain a constant body temperature at ambient temperatures must be transported in a brooder or other temperature-regulating unit that effectively assists the bird in maintaining a constant body temperature during transport.
(1) The temperature of the brooder or other temperature-regulating unit must be monitored during transportation and appropriate for the live bird.
(2) Written instructions for the temperature requirements of birds transported in brooders or other temperature-regulating units must be securely affixed to the outside of the primary enclosure used for transporting the bird. The instructions must be attached in accordance with § 3.162(f) in a manner that makes them easily noticed and read.
Pt. 4

# PART 4—RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING PROCEEDINGS UNDER THE ANIMAL WELFARE ACT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
4.1
Scope and applicability of rules of practice.

# Subpart B—Supplemental Rules of Practice
4.10
Summary action.
4.11
Stipulations.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2149 and 2151; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.7.

# Source:
42 FR 10959, Feb. 25, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 4.1
Scope and applicability of rules of practice.
The Uniform Rules of Practice for the Department of Agriculture promulgated in subpart H of part 1, subtitle A, title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, are the Rules of Practice applicable to adjudicatory, administrative proceedings under section 19 of the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2149). In addition, the Supplemental Rules of Practice set forth in subpart B of this part shall be applicable to such proceedings.

# Subpart B—Supplemental Rules of Practice
§ 4.10
Summary action.
(a) In any situation where the Administrator has reason to believe that any person licensed under the Act has violated or is violating any provision of the Act, or the regulations or standards issued thereunder, and he or she deems it warranted under the circumstances, the Administrator may
suspend such person's license temporarily, for a period not to exceed 21 days, effective, except as provided in § 4.10(b), upon written notification given to such person of the suspension of his or her license pursuant to § 1.147(b) of the Uniform Rules of Practice (7 CFR 1.147(b)).
(b) In any case of actual or threatened physical harm to animals in violation of the Act, or the regulations or standards issued thereunder, by a person licensed under the Act, the Administrator may suspend such person's license temporarily, for a period not to exceed 21 days, effective upon oral or written notification, whichever is earlier. In the event of oral notification, a written confirmation thereof shall be given to such person pursuant to § 1.147(b) of the Uniform Rules of Practice (7 CFR 1.147(b)) as promptly as circumstances permit.
(c) The temporary suspension of a license shall be in addition to any sanction which may be imposed against said person by the Secretary pursuant to the Act after notice and opportunity for hearing.
[42 FR 10959, Feb. 25, 1977, as amended at 86 FR 66926, Nov. 24, 2021]
§ 4.11
Stipulations.
(a) At any time prior to the issuance of a complaint seeking a civil penalty under the Act, the Administrator, in his or her discretion, may enter into a stipulation with any person in which:
(1) The Administrator gives notice of an apparent violation of the Act, or the regulations or standards issued thereunder, by such person and affords such person an opportunity for a hearing regarding the matter as provided by the Act;
(2) Such person expressly waives hearing and agrees to pay a specified penalty within a designated time; and
(3) The Administrator agrees to accept the specified penalty in settlement of the particular matter involved if it is paid within the designated time.
(b) If the specified penalty is not paid within the time designated in such a stipulation, the amount of the stipulated penalty shall not be relevant in any respect to the penalty which may be assessed after issuance of a complaint.
[42 FR 10959, Feb. 25, 1977, as amended at 86 FR 66926, Nov. 24, 2021]
Pt. 11

# PART 11—HORSE PROTECTION REGULATIONS (EFF. until 02-01-25)
Sec.
11.1
Definitions.
11.2
Prohibitions concerning exhibitors.
11.3
Scar rule.
11.4
Inspection and detention of horses.
11.5
Access to premises and records.
11.6
Inspection space and facility requirements.
11.7
Certification and licensing of designated qualified persons (DQP's).
11.19
Authorization and training of Horse Protection Inspectors.
11.20
Responsibilities and liabilities of management.
11.21
Inspection procedures for designated qualified persons (DQPs).
11.22
Records required and disposition thereof.
11.23
Inspection of records.
11.24
Reporting by management.
11.25
Minimum penalties to be assessed and enforced by HIOs that license DQPs.
11.40
Prohibitions and requirements concerning persons involved in transportation of certain horses.
11.41
Reporting required of horse industry organizations or associations.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1823-1825 and 1828; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.7.

# Source:
44 FR 25179, Apr. 27, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 39244, May 8, 2024, part 11 was revised, effective Feb. 1, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text follows this part.
§ 11.1
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in this section. The singular form shall also impart the plural and the masculine form shall also impart the feminine. Words of art undefined in the following paragraphs shall have the meaning attributed to them by trade usage or general usage as reflected by definition in a standard dictionary, such as “Webster's.”
Act
means the Horse Protection Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-540) as amended by the Horse Protection Act Amendments of 1976 (Pub. L. 94-360), 15 U.S.C. 1821
et
seq.
, and any legislation amendatory thereof.
Action device
means any boot, collar, chain, roller, or other device which encircles or is placed upon the lower extremity of the leg of a horse in such a manner that it can either rotate around the leg, or slide up and down the leg so as to cause friction, or which can strike the hoof, coronet band or fetlock joint.
Administrator
means the Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS)
means the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
APHIS representative
means any employee of APHIS, or any officer or employee of any State agency who is authorized by the Administrator to perform inspections or any other functions authorized by the Act, including the inspection of the records of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale or horse auction.
APHIS Show Veterinarian
means the APHIS Doctor of Veterinary Medicine responsible for the immediate supervision and conduct of the Department's activities under the Act at any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale or horse auction.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
Designated Qualified Person
or
DQP
means a person meeting the requirements specified in § 11.7 of this part who has been licensed as a DQP by a horse industry organization or association having a DQP program certified by the Department and who may be appointed and delegated authority by the management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale or horse auction under section 4 of the Act to detect or diagnose horses which are sore or to otherwise inspect horses and any records pertaining to such horses for the purposes of enforcing the Act.
Exhibitor
means (1) any person who enters any horse, any person who allows his horse to be entered, or any person who directs or allows any horse in his custody or under his direction, control or supervision to be entered in any horse show or horse exhibition; (2) any person who shows or exhibits any horse, any person who allows his horse to be shown or exhibited, or any person who directs or allows any horse in his custody or under his direction, control, or supervision to be shown or exhibited in any horse show or horse exhibition; (3) any person who enters or presents any horse for sale or auction, any person who allows his horse to be entered or presented for sale or auction, or any person who allows any horse in his custody or under his direction, control, or supervision to be entered or presented for sale or auction in any horse sale or horse auction; or (4) any person who sells or auctions any horse, any person who allows his horse to be sold or auctioned, or any person who directs or allows any horse in his custody or under his direction, control, or supervision to be sold or auctioned.
Horse
means any member of the species
Equus caballus.
Horse exhibition
means a public display of any horses, singly or in groups, but not in competition, except events where speed is the prime factor, rodeo events, parades, or trail rides.
Horse industry organization or association
means an organized group of people, having a formal structure, who are engaged in the promotion of horses through the showing, exhibiting, sale, auction, registry, or any activity which contributes to the advancement of the horse.
Horse sale or horse auction
means any event, public or private, at which horses are sold or auctioned, regardless of whether or not said horses are exhibited prior to or during the sale or auction.
Horse show
means a public display of any horses, in competition, except events where speed is the prime factor, rodeo events, parades, or trail rides.
Inspection
means the examination of any horse and any records pertaining to any horse by use of whatever means are deemed appropriate and necessary for the purpose of determining compliance with the Act and regulations. Such inspection may include, but is not limited to, visual examination of a horse and records, actual physical examination of a horse including touching, rubbing, palpating and observation
of vital signs, and the use of any diagnostic device or instrument, and may require the removal of any shoe, pad, action device, or any other equipment, substance or paraphernalia from the horse when deemed necessary by the person conducting such inspection.
Lubricant
means mineral oil, glycerine or petrolatum, or mixtures exclusively thereof, that is applied to the limbs of a horse solely for protective and lubricating purposes while the horse is being shown or exhibited at a horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale or horse auction.
Management
means any person or persons who organize, exercise control over, or administer or are responsible for organizing, directing, or administering any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale or horse auction and specifically includes, but is not limited to, the sponsoring organization and show manager.
Person
means any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, organization, joint stock company, or other legal entity.
Regional Director
means the APHIS veterinarian who is assigned by the Administrator to supervise and perform official duties of APHIS under the Act in a specified State or States.
1
1
Information as to the name and address of the Regional Director for the State or States concerned can be obtained by writing to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Animal Care, 4700 River Road Unit 84, Riverdale, MD 20737-1234.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture or anyone who has heretofore or may hereafter be delegated authority to act in his stead.
Show manager
means the person who has been delegated primary authority by a sponsoring organization for managing a horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale or horse auction.
Sore
when used to describe a horse means:
(1) An irritating or blistering agent has been applied, internally or externally by a person to any limb of a horse,
(2) Any burn, cut, or laceration has been inflicted by a person on any limb of a horse,
(3) Any tack, nail, screw, or chemical agent has been injected by a person into or used by a person on any limb of a horse, or
(4) Any other substance or device has been used by a person on any limb of a horse or a person has engaged in a practice involving a horse, and, as a result of such application, infliction, injection, use, or practice, such horse suffers, or can reasonably be expected to suffer, physical pain or distress, inflammation, or lameness when walking, trotting, or otherwise moving, except that such term does not include such an application, infliction, injection, use, or practice in connection with the therapeutic treatment of a horse by or under the supervision of a person licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the State in which such treatment was given.
Sponsoring organization
means any person under whose immediate auspices and responsibility a horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction is conducted.
State
means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
[44 FR 1561, Jan. 5, 1979, as amended at 53 FR 14782, Apr. 26, 1988; 53 FR 28372, July 28, 1988; 56 FR 13749, Apr. 4, 1991; 59 FR 67612, Dec. 30, 1994; 63 FR 62927, Nov. 10, 1998]
§ 11.2
Prohibitions concerning exhibitors.
(a)
General prohibitions.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, no chain, boot, roller, collar, action device, nor any other device, method, practice, or substance shall be used with respect to any horse at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction if such use causes or can reasonably be expected to cause such horse to be sore.
(b)
Specific prohibitions.
The use of any of the following devices, equipment, or practices on any horse at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction is prohibited:
(1) All beads, bangles, rollers, and similar devices, with the exception of rollers made of lignum vitae (hardwood), aluminum, or stainless steel,
with individual rollers of uniform size, weight and configuration, provided each such device may not weigh more than 6 ounces, including the weight of the fastener.
(2) Chains weighing more than 6 ounces each, including the weight of the fastener.
(3) Chains with links that are not of uniform size, weight and configuration; and, chains that have twisted links or double links.
(4) Chains that have drop links on any horse that is being ridden, worked on a lead, or otherwise worked out or moved about.
(5) More than one action device on any one limb of a horse.
(6) Chains or lignum vitae, stainless steel, or aluminum rollers which are not smooth and free of protrusions, projections, rust, corrosion, or rough or sharp edges.
(7)(i) Boots, collars, or any other devices, with protrusions or swellings, or rigid, rough, or sharp edges, seams or any other abrasive or abusive surface that may contact a horse's leg; and
(ii) Boots, collars, or any other devices that weigh more than 6 ounces, except for soft rubber or soft leather bell boots and quarter boots that are used as protective devices.
(8) Pads or other devices on yearling horses (horses up to 2 years old) that elevate or change the angle of such horses' hooves in excess of 1 inch at the heel.
(9) Any weight on yearling horses, except a keg or similar conventional horseshoe, and any horseshoe on yearling horses that weighs more than 16 ounces.
(10) Artificial extension of the toe length, whether accomplished with pads, acrylics or any other material or combinations thereof, that exceeds 50 percent of the natural hoof length, as measured from the coronet band, at the center of the front pastern along the front of the hoof wall, to the distal portion of the hoof wall at the tip of the toe. The artificial extension shall be measured from the distal portion of the hoof wall at the tip of the toe at a 90 degree angle to the proximal (foot/hoof) surface of the shoe.
(11) Toe length that does not exceed the height of the heel by 1 inch or more. The length of the toe shall be measured from the coronet band, at the center of the front pastern along the front of the hoof wall to the ground. The heel shall be measured from the coronet band, at the most lateral portion of the rear pastern, at a 90 degree angle to the ground, not including normal caulks at the rear of a horseshoe that do not exceed
3/4
inch in length. That portion of caulk at the rear of a horseshoe in excess of
3/4
of an inch shall be added to the height of the heel in determining the heel/toe ratio.
(12) Pads that are not made of leather, plastic, or a similar pliant material.
(13) Any object or material inserted between the pad and the hoof other than acceptable hoof packing, which includes pine tar, oakum, live rubber, sponge rubber, silicone, commercial hoof packing or other substances used to maintain adequate frog pressure or sole consistency.
(14) Single or double rocker-bars on the bottom surface of horseshoes which extend more than 1
1/2
inches back from the point of the toe, or which would cause, or could reasonably be expected to cause, an unsteadiness of stance in the horse with resulting muscle and tendon strain due to the horse's weight and balance being focused upon a small fulcrum point.
2
2
This prohibition is not intended to disallow corrective devices, such as Memphis bars which consist of a metal bar(s) crossing from the ground surface of one side of the horseshoe to the ground surface of the other side of the horseshoe, and the purpose of which is to correct a lameness or pathological condition of the foot:
Provided,
That such metal bar(s) do not act as a single fulcrum point so as to affect the balance of the horse.
(15) Metal hoof bands, such as used to anchor or strengthen pads and shoes, placed less than
1/2
inch below the coronet band.
(16) Metal hoof bands that can be easily and quickly loosened or tightened by hand, by means such as, but not limited to, a wing-nut or similar fastener.
(17) Any action device or any other device that strikes the coronet band of the foot of a horse except for soft rubber or soft leather bell boots that are used as protective devices.
(18) Shoeing a horse, or trimming a horse's hoof in a manner that will cause such horse to suffer, or can reasonably be expected to cause such horse to suffer pain or distress, inflammation, or lameness when walking, trotting, or otherwise moving.
(19) Lead or other weights attached to the outside of the hoof wall, the outside surface of the horseshoe, or any portion of the pad except the bottom surface within the horseshoe. Pads may not be hollowed out for the purpose of inserting or affixing weights, and weights may not extend below the bearing surface of the shoe. Hollow shoes or artificial extensions filled with mercury or similar substances are prohibited.
(c)
Substances.
All substances are prohibited on the extremities above the hoof of any Tennessee Walking Horse or racking horse while being shown, exhibited, or offered for sale at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, except lubricants such as glycerine, petrolatum, and mineral oil, or mixtures thereof:
Provided,
That:
(1) The horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction management agrees to furnish all such lubricants and to maintain control over them when used at the horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction.
(2) Any such lubricants shall be applied only after the horse has been inspected by management or by a DQP and shall only be applied under the supervision of the horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale, or auction management.
(3) Horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction management makes such lubricants available to Department personnel for inspection and sampling as they deem necessary.
(d)
Competition restrictions—2 Year-Old Horses.
Horse show or horse exhibition workouts or performances of 2-year-old Tennessee Walking Horses and racking horses and working exhibitions of 2-year-old Tennessee Walking Horses and racking horses (horses eligible to be shown or exhibited in 2-year-old classes) at horse sales or horse auctions that exceed a total of 10 minutes continuous workout or performance without a minimum 5-minute rest period between the first such 10-minute period and the second such 10-minute period, and, more than two such 10-minute periods per performance, class, or workout are prohibited.
(e)
Information requirements—horse related.
Failing to provide information or providing any false or misleading information required by the Act or regulations or requested by Department representatives, by any person that owns, trains, shows, exhibits, or sells or has custody of, or direction or control over any horse shown, exhibited, sold, or auctioned or entered for the purpose of being shown, exhibited, sold, or auctioned at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction is prohibited. Such information shall include, but is not limited to: Information concerning the registered name, markings, sex, age, and legal ownership of the horse; the name and address of the horse's training and/or stabling facilities; the name and address of the owner, trainer, rider, any other exhibitor, or other legal entity bearing responsibility for the horse; the class in which the horse is entered or shown; the exhibitor identification number; and, any other information reasonably related to the identification, ownership, control, direction, or supervision of any such horse.
[44 FR 25179, Apr. 27, 1979, as amended at 53 FR 14782, Apr. 26, 1988, 53 FR 15641, May 2, 1988, 53 FR 28372, July 28, 1988, 53 FR 41562, Oct. 24, 1988, 53 FR 45854, Nov. 14, 1988; 54 FR 7178, Feb. 17, 1989]
§ 11.3
Scar rule.
The scar rule applies to all horses born on or after October 1, 1975. Horses subject to this rule that do not meet the following scar rule criteria shall be considered to be “sore” and are subject to all prohibitions of section 5 of the Act. The scar rule criteria are as follows:
(a) The anterior and anterior-lateral surfaces of the fore pasterns (extensor surface) must be free of bilateral granulomas,
5
other bilateral pathological evidence of inflammation, and,
other bilateral evidence of abuse indicative of soring including, but not limited to, excessive loss of hair.
3 4
[Reserved]
5
Granuloma is defined as any one of a rather large group of fairly distinctive focal
lesions that are formed as a result of inflammatory reactions caused by biological, chemical, or physical agents.
(b) The posterior surfaces of the pasterns (flexor surface), including the sulcus or “pocket” may show bilateral areas of uniformly thickened epithelial tissue if such areas are free of proliferating granuloma tissue, irritation, moisture, edema, or other evidence of inflammation.
[44 FR 25179, Apr. 27, 1979, as amended at 53 FR 14782, Apr. 26, 1988, 53 FR 28373, July 28, 1988]
§ 11.4
Inspection and detention of horses.
For the purpose of effective enforcement of the Act:
(a) Each horse owner, exhibitor, trainer, or other person having custody of, or responsibility for, any horse at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, shall allow any APHIS representative to reasonably inspect such horse at all reasonable times and places the APHIS representative may designate. Such inspections may be required of any horse which is stabled, loaded on a trailer, being prepared for show, exhibition, or sale or auction, being exercised or otherwise on the grounds of, or present at, any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, whether or not such horse has or has not been shown, exhibited, or sold or auctioned, or has or has not been entered for the purpose of being shown or exhibited or offered for sale or auction at any such horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction. APHIS representatives will not generally or routinely delay or interrupt actual individual classes or performances at horse shows, horse exhibitions, or horse sales or auctions for the purpose of examining horses, but they may do so in extraordinary situations, such as but not limited to, lack of proper facilities for inspection, refusal of management to cooperate with Department inspection efforts, reason to believe that failure to immediately perform inspection may result in the loss, removal, or masking of any evidence of a violation of the Act or the regulations, or a request by management that such inspections be performed by an APHIS representative.
(b) When any APHIS representative notifies the owner, exhibitor, trainer, or other person having custody of or responsibility for a horse at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction that APHIS desires to inspect such horse, it shall not be moved from the horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction until such inspection has been completed and the horse has been released by an APHIS representative.
(c) For the purpose of examination, testing, or taking of evidence, APHIS representatives may detain for a period not to exceed 24 hours any horse, at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, which is sore or which an APHIS veterinarian has probable cause to believe is sore. Such detained horse may be marked for identification and any such identifying markings shall not be removed by any person other than an APHIS representative.
(d) Detained horses shall be kept under the supervision of an APHIS representative or secured under an official USDA seal or seals in a horse stall, horse trailer, or other facility to which access shall be limited. It shall be the policy of APHIS to have at least one representative present in the immediate detention area when a horse is being held in detention. The official USDA seal or seals may not be broken or removed by any person other than an APHIS representative, unless:
(1) The life or well-being of the detained horse is immediately endangered by fire, flood, windstorm, or other dire circumstances that are beyond human control.
(2) The detained horse is in need of such immediate veterinary attention that its life may be in peril before an APHIS representative can be located.
(3) The horse has been detained for a maximum 24-hour detention period, and an APHIS representative is not available to release the horse.
(e) The owner, exhibitor, trainer, or other person having custody of or responsibility for any horse detained by
APHIS for further examination, testing, or the taking of evidence shall be allowed to feed, water, and provide other normal custodial and maintenance care, such as walking, grooming, etc., for such detained horse:
Provided,
That:
(1) Such feeding, watering, and other normal custodial and maintenance care of the detained horse is rendered under the direct supervision of an APHIS representative.
(2) Any non-emergency veterinary care of the detained horse requiring the use, application, or injection of any drugs or other medication for therapeutic or other purposes is rendered by a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine in the presence of an APHIS representative and, the identity and dosage of the drug or other medication used, applied, or injected and its purpose is furnished in writing to the APHIS representative prior to such use, application, or injection by the Doctor of Veterinary Medicine attending the horse. The use, application, or injection of such drug or other medication must be approved by the APHIS Show Veterinarian or his appointed representative.
(f) It shall be the policy of APHIS to inform the owner, trainer, exhibitor, or other person having immediate custody of or responsibility for any horse allegedly found to be in violation of the Act or the regulations of such alleged violation or violations before the horse is released by an APHIS representative.
(g) The owner, trainer, exhibitor, or other person having immediate custody of or responsibility for any horse or horses that an APHIS representative determines shall be detained for examination, testing, or taking of evidence pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section shall be informed after such determination is made and shall allow said horse to be immediately put under the supervisory custody of APHIS or secured under official USDA seal as provided in paragraph (d) of this section until the completion of such examination, testing, or gathering of evidence, or until the 24-hour detention period expires.
(h) The owner, trainer, exhibitor, or other person having custody of or responsibility for any horse allegedly found to be in violation of the Act or regulations, and who has been notified of such alleged violation by an APHIS representative as stated in paragraph (f) of this section, may request reexamination and testing of said horse within a 24-hour period:
Provided,
That:
(1) Such request is made to the APHIS Show Veterinarian immediately after the horse has been examined by APHIS representatives and before such horse has been removed from the APHIS inspection facilities; and
(2) The APHIS Show Veterinarian determines that sufficient cause for reexamination and testing exists; and
(3) The horse is maintained under APHIS supervisory custody as prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section until such reexamination and testing has been completed.
(i) The owner, exhibitor, trainer, or other person having custody of, or responsibility for any horse being inspected shall render such assistance as the APHIS representative may request for purposes of such inspection.
(ii) [Reserved]
[44 FR 25179, Apr. 27, 1979, as amended at 56 FR 13750, Apr. 4, 1991]
§ 11.5
Access to premises and records.
Requirements regarding access to premises for inspection of horses and records are as follows:
(a)
Management.
(1) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction shall, without fee, charge, assessment, or other compensation, provide APHIS representatives with unlimited access to the grandstands, sale ring, barns, stables, grounds, offices, and all other areas of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, including any adjacent areas under their direction, control, or supervision for the purpose of inspecting any horses, or any records required to be kept by regulation or otherwise maintained.
(2) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction shall, without fee, charge, assessment, or other compensation, provide APHIS representatives with an adequate, safe, and accessible area for the visual inspection and observation of horses while such horses are competitively or otherwise performing at any horse show or horse exhibition, or
while such horses are being sold or auctioned or offered for sale or auction at any horse sale or horse auction.
(b)
Exhibitors.
(1) Each horse owner, exhibitor, or other person having custody of or responsibility for any horse at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction shall, without fee, charge, assessment, or other compensation, admit any APHIS representative or Designated Qualified Person appointed by management, to all areas of barns, compounds, horse vans, horse trailers, stables, stalls, paddocks, or other show, exhibition, or sale or auction grounds or related areas at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, for the purpose of inspecting any such horse at any and all reasonable times.
(2) Each owner, trainer, exhibitor, or other person having custody of or responsibility for, any horse at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction shall promptly present his horse for inspection upon notification, orally or in writing, by any APHIS representative or Designated Qualified Person appointed by management, that said horse has been selected for examination for the purpose of determining whether such horse is in compliance with the Act and regulations.
[44 FR 25179, Apr. 27, 1979, as amended at 56 FR 13750, Apr. 4, 1991]
§ 11.6
Inspection space and facility requirements.
The management of every horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, containing Tennessee Walking Horses or racking horses, shall provide, without fee, sufficient space and facilities for APHIS representatives to carry out their duties under the Act and regulations at every horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, containing Tennessee Walking Horses or racking horses, whether or not management has received prior notification or otherwise knows that such show may be inspected by APHIS. The management of every horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale or auction which does not contain Tennessee Walking Horses or racking horses shall provide, without fee, such sufficient space and facilities when requested to do so by APHIS representatives. With respect to such space and facilities, it shall be the responsibility of management to provide at least the following:
(a) Sufficient space in a convenient location to the horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction arena, acceptable to the APHIS Show Veterinarian, in which horses may be physically, thermographically, or otherwise inspected.
(b) Protection from the elements of nature, such as rain, snow, sleet, hail, windstorm, etc., if required by the APHIS Show Veterinarian.
(c) A means to control crowds or onlookers in order that APHIS personnel may carry out their duties without interference and with a reasonable measure of safety, if requested by the APHIS Show Veterinarian.
(d) An accessible, reliable, and convenient 110-volt electrical power source, if electrical service is available at the show, exhibition, or sale or auction site and is requested by the APHIS Show Veterinarian.
(e) An appropriate area adjacent to the inspection area for designated horses to wait for inspection, and an area to be used for detention of horses.
[44 FR 25181, Apr. 27, 1979, as amended at 56 FR 13750, Apr. 4, 1991]
§ 11.7
Certification and licensing of designated qualified persons (DQP's).
(a)
Basic qualifications of DQP applicants.
DQP's holding a valid, current DQP license issued in accordance with this part may be appointed by the management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction, as qualified persons in accordance with section 4(c) of the Act, to inspect horses to detect or diagnose soring and to otherwise inspect horses, or any records pertaining to any horse for the purpose of enforcing the Act. Individuals who may be licensed as DQP's under this part shall be:
(1) Doctors of Veterinary Medicine who are accredited in any State by the United States Department of Agriculture under part 161 of chapter I, title 9 of the Code of Federal Regulations, and who are:
(i) Members of the American Association of Equine Practitioners, or
(ii) Large animal practitioners with substantial equine experience, or
(iii) Knowledgeable in the area of equine lameness as related to soring and soring practices (such as Doctors of Veterinary Medicine with a small animal practice who own, train, judge, or show horses, or Doctors of Veterinary Medicine who teach equine related subjects in an accredited college or school of veterinary medicine). Accredited Doctors of Veterinary Medicine who meet these criteria may be licensed as DQP's by a horse industry organization or association whose DQP program has been certified by the Department under this part without undergoing the formal training requirements set forth in this section.
(2) Farriers, horse trainers, and other knowledgeable horsemen whose past experience and training would qualify them for positions as horse industry organization or association stewards or judges (or their equivalent) and who have been formally trained and licensed as DQP's by a horse industry organization or association whose DQP program has been certified by the Department in accordance with this section.
(b)
Certification requirements for DQP programs.
The Department will not license DQP's on an individual basis. Licensing of DQP's will be accomplished only through DQP programs certified by the Department and initiated and maintained by horse industry organizations or associations. Any horse industry organization or association desiring Department certification to train and license DQP's under the Act shall submit to the Administrator
6
a formal request in writing for certification of its DQP program and a detailed outline of such program for Department approval. Such outline shall include the organizational structure of such organization or association and the names of the officers or persons charged with the management of the organization or association. The outline shall also contain at least the following:
6
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Animal Care, 4700 River Road, Unit 84, Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1234.
(1) The criteria to be used in selecting DQP candidates and the minimum qualifications and knowledge regarding horses each candidate must have in order to be admitted to the program.
(2) A copy of the formal training program, classroom and practical, required to be completed by each DQP candidate before being licensed by such horse industry organization or association, including the minimum number of hours, classroom and practical, and the subject matter of the training program. Such training program must meet the following minimum standards in order to be certified by the Department under the Act.
(i) Two hours of classroom instruction on the anatomy and physiology of the limbs of a horse. The instructor teaching the course must be specified, and a resume of said instructor's background, experience, and qualifications to teach such course shall be provided to the Administrator.
6
(ii) Two hours of classroom instruction on the Horse Protection Act and regulations and their interpretation. Instructors for this course must be furnished or recommended by the Department. Requests for instructors to be furnished or recommended must be made to the Administrator
6
in writing at least 30 days prior to such course.
(iii) Four hours of classroom instruction on the history of soring, the physical examination procedures necessary to detect soring, the detection and diagnosis of soring, and related subjects. The instructor teaching the course must be specified and a summary of said instructor's background, experience, and qualifications to teach such course must be provided to the Administrator.
6
(iv) Four hours of practical instruction in clinics and seminars utilizing live horses with actual application of the knowledge gained in the classroom subjects covered in paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section. Methods and procedures required to perform a thorough and uniform examination of a horse shall be included. The names of the instructors and a resume of their background, academic and practical experience, and qualifications to present such instruction shall be provided to the Administrator.
6
Notification of the actual date, time, duration,
subject matter, and geographic location of such clinics or seminars must be sent to the Administrator
6
at least 10 days prior to each such clinic or seminar.
(v) One hour of classroom instruction regarding the DQP standards of conduct promulgated by the licensing organization or association pursuant to paragraph (d)(7) of this section.
(vi) One hour of classroom instruction on recordkeeping and reporting requirements and procedures.
(3) A sample of a written examination which must be passed by DQP candidates for successful completion of the program along with sample answers and the scoring thereof, and proposed passing and failing standards.
(4) The criteria to be used to determine the qualifications and performance abilities of DQP candidates selected for the training program and the criteria used to indicate successful completion of the training program, in addition to the written examination required in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(5) The criteria and schedule for a continuing education program and the criteria and methods of monitoring and appraising performance for continued licensing of DQP's by such organization or association. A continuing education program for DQP's shall consist of not less than 4 hours of instruction per year.
(6) Procedures for monitoring horses in the unloading, preparation, warmup, and barn areas, or other such areas. Such monitoring may include any horse that is stabled, loaded on a trailer, being prepared for show, exhibition, sale, or auction, or exercised, or that is otherwise on the grounds of, or present at, any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction.
(7) The methods to be used to insure uniform interpretation and enforcement of the Horse Protection Act and regulations by DQP's and uniform procedures for inspecting horses for compliance with the Act and regulations;
(8) Standards of conduct for DQP's promulgated by the organization or association in accordance with paragraph (d)(7) of this section; and
(9) A formal request for Department certification of the DQP program.
The horse industry organizations or associations that have formally requested Department certification of their DQP training, enforcement, and maintenance program will receive a formal notice of certification from the Department, or the reasons, in writing, why certification of such program cannot be approved. A current list of certified DQP programs and licensed DQP's will be published in the
Federal Register
at least once each year, and as may be further required for the purpose of deleting programs and names of DQP's that are no longer certified or licensed, and of adding the names of programs and DQP's that have been certified or licensed subsequent to the publication of the previous list.
(c)
Licensing of DQP's.
Each horse industry organization or association receiving Department certification for the training and licensing of DQP's under the Act shall:
(1) Issue each DQP licensed by such horse industry organization or association a numbered identification card bearing the name and personal signature of the DQP, a picture of the DQP, and the name and address, including the street address or post office box and zip code, of the licensing organization or association;
(2) Submit a list to the Administrator
6
of names and addresses including street address or post office box and zip code, of all DQP's that have successfully completed the certified DQP program and have been licensed under the Act and regulations by such horse industry organization or association;
6
See footnote 6 to this section.
(3) Notify the Department of any additions or deletions of names of licensed DQP's from the licensed DQP list submitted to the Department or of any change in the address of any licensed DQP or any warnings and license revocations issued to any DQP licensed by such horse industry organization or association within 10 days of such change;
(4) Not license any person as a DQP if such person has been convicted of any violation of the Act or regulations occurring after July 13, 1976, or paid any fine or civil penalty in settlement of
any proceeding regarding a violation of the Act or regulations occurring after July 13, 1976, for a period of at least 2 years following the first such violation, and for a period of at least 5 years following the second such violation and any subsequent violation;
(5) Not license any person as a DQP until such person has attended and worked two recognized or affiliated horse shows, horse exhibitions, horse sales, or horse auctions as an apprentice DQP and has demonstrated the ability, qualifications, knowledge and integrity required to satisfactorily execute the duties and responsibilities of a DQP;
(6) Not license any person as a DQP if such person has been disqualified by the Secretary from making detection, diagnosis, or inspection for the purpose of enforcing the Act, or if such person's DQP license is canceled by another horse industry organization or association.
(d)
Requirements to be met by DQP's and Licensing Organizations or Associations.
(1) Any licensed DQP appointed by the management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale or auction to inspect horses for the purpose of detecting and determining or diagnosing horses which are sore and to otherwise inspect horses for the purpose of enforcing the Act and regulations, shall keep and maintain the following information and records concerning any horse which said DQP recommends be disqualified or excused for any reason at such horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale or auction, from being shown, exhibited, sold or auctioned, in a uniform format required by the horse industry organization or association that has licensed said DQP:
(i) The name and address, including street address or post office box and zip code, of the show and the show manager.
(ii) The name and address, including street address or post office box and zip code, of the horse owner.
(iii) The name and address, including street address or post office box and zip code, of the horse trainer.
(iv) The name and address, including street address or post office box and zip code, of the horse exhibitor.
(v) The exhibitors number and class number, or the sale or auction tag number of said horse.
(vi) The date and time of the inspection.
(vii) A detailed description of all of the DQP's findings and the nature of the alleged violation, or other reason for disqualifying or excusing the horse, including said DQP's statement regarding the evidence or facts upon which the decision to disqualify or excuse said horse was based.
(viii) The name, age, sex, color, and markings of the horse; and
(ix) The name or names of the show manager or other management representative notified by the DQP that such horse should be excused or disqualified and whether or not such manager or management representative excused or disqualified such horse.
Copies of the above records shall be submitted by the involved DQP to the horse industry organization or association that has licensed said DQP within 72 hours after the horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction is over.
(2) The DQP shall inform the custodian of each horse allegedly found in violation of the Act or its regulations, or disqualified or excused for any other reason, of such action and the specific reasons for such action.
(3) Each horse industry organization or association having a Department certified DQP program shall submit a report to the Department containing the following information, from records required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and other available sources, to the Department on a monthly basis:
(i) The identity of all horse shows, horse exhibitions, horse sales, or horse auctions that have retained the services of DQP's licensed by said organization or association during the month covered by the report. Information concerning the identity of such horse shows, horse exhibitions, horse sales, or horse auctions shall include:
(A) The name and location of the show, exhibition, sale, or auction.
(B) The name and address of the manager.
(C) The date or dates of the show, exhibition, sale, or auction.
(ii) The identity of all horses at each horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction that the licensed DQP recommended be disqualified or excused for any reason. The information concerning the identity of such horses shall include:
(A) The registered name of each horse.
(B) The name and address of the owner, trainer, exhibitor, or other person having custody of or responsibility for the care of each such horse disqualified or excused.
(4) Each horse industry organization or association having a Department certified DQP program shall provide, by certified mail if personal service is not possible, to the trainer and owner of each horse allegedly found in violation of the Act or its regulations or otherwise disqualified or excused for any reason, the following information;
(i) The name and date of the show, exhibition, sale, or auction.
(ii) The name of the horse and the reason why said horse was excused, disqualified, or alleged to be in violation of the Act or its regulations.
(5) Each horse industry organization or association having a Department certified DQP program shall provide each of its licensed DQP's with a current list of all persons that have been disqualified by order of the Secretary from showing or exhibiting any horse, or judging or managing any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction. The Department will make such list available, on a current basis, to organizations and associations maintaining a certified DQP program.
(6) Each horse industry organization or association having a Department certified DQP program shall develop and provide a continuing education program for licensed DQP's which provides not less than 4 hours of instruction per year to each licensed DQP.
(7) Each horse industry organization or association having a Department certified DQP program shall promulgate standards of conduct for its DQP's, and shall provide administrative procedures within the organization or association for initiating, maintaining, and enforcing such standards. The procedures shall include the causes for and methods to be utilized for canceling the license of any DQP who fails to properly and adequately carry out his duties. Minimum standards of conduct for DQP's shall include the following;
(i) A DQP shall not exhibit any horse at any horse show or horse exhibition, or sell, auction, or purchase any horse sold at a horse sale or horse auction at which he or she has been appointed to inspect horses;
(ii) A DQP shall not inspect horses at any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale or horse auction in which a horse or horses owned by a member of the DQP's immediate family or the DQP's employer are competing or are being offered for sale;
(iii) A DQP shall follow the uniform inspection procedures of his certified organization or association when inspecting horses; and
(iv) The DQP shall immediately inform management of each case regarding any horse which, in his opinion, is in violation of the Act or regulations.
(e)
Prohibition of appointment of certain persons to perform duties under the Act.
The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction shall not appoint any person to detect and diagnose horses which are sore or to otherwise inspect horses for the purpose of enforcing the Act, if that person:
(1) Does not hold a valid, current DQP license issued by a horse industry organization or association having a DQP program certified by the Department.
(2) Has had his DQP license canceled by the licensing organization or association.
(3) Is disqualified by the Secretary from performing diagnosis, detection, and inspection under the Act, after notice and opportunity for a hearing,
7
when the Secretary finds that such person is unfit to perform such diagnosis, detection, or inspection because he has
failed to perform his duties in accordance with the Act or regulations, or because he has been convicted of a violation of any provision of the Act or regulations occurring after July 13, 1976, or has paid any fine or civil penalty in settlement of any proceeding regarding a violation of the Act or regulations occurring after July 13, 1976.
7
Hearing would be in accordance with the Uniform Rules of Practice for the Department of Agriculture in subpart H of part 1, subtitle A, title 7, Code of Federal Regulations (7 CFR 1.130
et seq.
)
(f)
Cancellation of DQP license.
(1) Each horse industry organization or association having a DQP program certified by the Department shall issue a written warning to any DQP whom it has licensed who violates the rules, regulations, by-laws, or standards of conduct promulgated by such horse industry organization or association pursuant to this section, who fails to follow the procedures set forth in § 11.21 of this part, or who otherwise carries out his duties and responsibilities in a less than satisfactory manner, and shall cancel the license of any DQP after a second violation. Upon cancellation of his DQP license, the DQP may, within 30 days thereafter, request a hearing before a review committee of not less than three persons appointed by the licensing horse industry organization or association. If the review committee sustains the cancellation of the license, the DQP may appeal the decision of such committee to the Administrator within 30 days from the date of such decision, and the Administrator shall make a final determination in the matter. If the Administrator finds, after providing the DQP whose license has been canceled with a notice and an opportunity for a hearing,
7
that there is sufficient cause for the committee's determination regarding license cancellation, he shall issue a decision sustaining such determination. If he does not find that there was sufficient cause to cancel the license, the licensing organization or association shall reinstate the license.
(2) Each horse industry organization or association having a Department certified DQP program shall cancel the license of any DQP licensed under its program who has been convicted of any violation of the Act or regulations or of any DQP who has paid a fine or civil penalty in settlement of any alleged violation of the Act or regulations if such alleged violation occurred after July 13, 1976.
(g)
Revocation of DQP program certification of horse industry organizations or associations.
Any horse industry organization or association having a Department certified DQP program that has not received Department approval of the inspection procedures provided for in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, or that otherwise fails to comply with the requirements contained in this part, may have such certification of its DQP program revoked, unless, upon written notification from the Department of such failure to comply with the requirements in this section, such organization or association takes immediate action to rectify such failure and takes appropriate steps to prevent a recurrence of such noncompliance within the time period specified in the Department notification, or otherwise adequately explains such failure to comply to the satisfaction of the Department. Any horse industry organization or association whose DQP program certification has been revoked may appeal such revocation to the Administrator
6
in writing within 30 days after the date of such revocation and, if requested, shall be afforded an opportunity for a hearing.
7
All DQP licenses issued by a horse industry organization or association whose DQP program certification has been revoked shall expire 30 days after the date of such revocation, or 15 days after the date the revocation becomes final after appeal, unless they are transferred to a horse industry organization or association having a program currently certified by the Department.
6 7
See previous footnotes 6 and 7.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0056)
[44 FR 1563, Jan. 5, 1979, as amended at 44 FR 25182, Apr. 27, 1979; 48 FR 57471, Dec. 30, 1983; 55 FR 41993, Oct. 17, 1990; 56 FR 13750, Apr. 4, 1991; 59 FR 67612, Dec. 30, 1994; 63 FR 62927, Nov. 10, 1998; 77 FR 33618, June 7, 2012]
§ 11.19
Authorization and training of Horse Protection Inspectors.
APHIS will authorize HPIs after the successful completion of training by APHIS. The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or
horse auction may appoint HPIs holding a current authorization to detect and diagnose horses that are sore or to otherwise inspect horses and any records pertaining to such horses for the purposes of determining compliance with the Act and regulations.
(a)
Authorization process.
All persons wishing to become HPIs must submit an application to APHIS. Guidance regarding submitting applications is located on the APHIS Horse Protection website. Applicants will be required to show that they meet the Tier 1 qualifications in paragraph (a)(1) of this section in order for the application to be evaluated. If the applicant meets the qualifications in paragraph (a)(1) of the section, the applicant will be further evaluated based on the Tier 2 qualifications in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. In order for APHIS to consider the applicant as a candidate to be an HPI, all qualifications must be met.
(1)
Tier 1 qualifications.
The applicant must be a veterinarian, except that veterinary technicians and persons employed by State and local government agencies to enforce laws or regulations pertaining to animal welfare may also be authorized if APHIS determines that there is an insufficient pool of veterinarians among current HPIs and applicants to be HPIs.
(2)
Tier 2 qualifications.
(i) The applicant must demonstrate sufficient knowledge and experience of equine husbandry and science and applicable principles of equine science, welfare, care, and health for APHIS to determine that the applicant can consistently identify equine soring and soring practices.
(ii) The applicant must not have been found to have violated any provision of the Act or the regulations in this part occurring after July 13, 1976, or have been assessed any civil penalty, or have been the subject of a disqualification order in any proceeding involving an alleged violation of the Act or regulations occurring after July 13, 1976.
(iii) The applicant must not have been disqualified by the Secretary from performing diagnosis, detection, and inspection under the Act.
(iv) The applicant must not have acted in a manner that calls into question the applicant's honesty, professional integrity, reputation, practices, and reliability relative to possible authorization as an HPI. APHIS will base this on a review of:
(A) Criminal conviction records, if any, indicating that the applicant may lack the honesty, integrity, and reliability to appropriately and effectively perform HPI duties.
(B) Official records of the person's actions while participating in Federal, State, or local veterinary programs when those actions reflect on the honesty, reputation, integrity, and reliability of the applicant.
(C) Judicial determinations in any type of litigation adversely reflecting on the honesty, reputation, integrity, and reliability of the applicant.
(D) Any other evidence reflecting on the honesty, reputation, integrity, and reliability of the applicant.
(b)
Training.
All applicants selected as candidates must complete a formal training program administered by APHIS prior to authorization. Continual training as APHIS determines to be necessary is a condition of maintaining authorization to inspect horses.
(c)
Listing.
APHIS will maintain a list of all HPIs on the APHIS Horse Protection website. The list is also available by contacting APHIS by email or U.S. mail.

# Note 1 to paragraph (c):
Send email to
horseprotection@usda.gov,
or U.S. mail to USDA/APHIS/AC, 2150 Centre Ave., Building B, Mailstop 3W11, Fort Collins, CO 80526-8117.
(d)
Denial of an HPI application and disqualification of HPIs
—(1)
Denial.
APHIS may deny an application for authorization of an HPI, or deny continuation in the program to an HPI trainee not yet authorized, for any of the reasons outlined in paragraph (a) of this section. In such instances, the applicant shall be provided written notification of the grounds for the denial. The applicant may appeal the decision, in writing, within 30 days after receiving the written denial notice. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons that the person wants the Administrator to consider in deciding the appeal. As soon as practicable, the Administrator will grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for the decision.
(2)
Disqualification.
APHIS may permanently disqualify any HPI who fails to inspect horses in accordance with the procedures prescribed by APHIS or otherwise fails to perform duties necessary for APHIS to enforce the Act and regulations, after notice and opportunity for a hearing. Requests for hearings and the hearings themselves shall be in accordance with the Uniform Rules of Practice for the Department of Agriculture in subpart H of 7 CFR part 1.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0490)
[89 FR 39244, May 8, 2024; 89 FR 48132, June 5, 2024]
§ 11.20
Responsibilities and liabilities of management.
(a) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction which does not appoint and retain a DQP shall be responsible for identifying all horses that are sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations, and shall disqualify or disallow any horses which are sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations from participating or competing in any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction. Horses entered for sale or auction at a horse sale or horse auction must be identified as sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations prior to the sale or auction and prohibited from entering the sale or auction ring. Sore horses or horses otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations that have been entered in a horse show or horse exhibition for the purpose of show or exhibition must be identified and excused prior to the show or exhibition. Any horses found to be sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations during actual participation in the show or exhibition, must be removed from further participation prior to the tyeing of the class or the completion of the exhibition. All horses tyed first in each Tennessee Walking Horse or racking horse class or event at any horse show or horse exhibition shall be inspected after being shown or exhibited to determine if such horses are sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations.
(b)(1) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale or auction which designates and appoints a Designated Qualified Person (or persons) to inspect horses shall accord said DQP access to all records and areas of the grounds of such show, exhibition, sale, or auction and the same right to inspect horses and records as is accorded to any APHIS representative. Further, management shall not take any action which would interfere with or influence said DQP in carrying out his duties or making decisions concerning whether or not any horse is sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations. In the event management is dissatisfied with the performance of a particular DQP, including disagreement with decisions concerning violations, management shall not dismiss or otherwise interfere with said DQP during the DQP's appointed tour of duty.
8
However, management should immediately notify, in writing, the Department
6
and the organization or association that licensed the DQP, as to why the performance of said DQP was inadequate or otherwise unsatisfactory. Management which designates and appoints a DQP shall immediately disqualify or disallow from being shown, exhibited, sold, or auctioned any horse identified by the DQP to be sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations or any horse otherwise known by management to be sore or in violation of the Act or regulations. Should management fail to disqualify or disallow from being shown, exhibited, sold or auctioned any such horse, said management shall assume full responsibility for and liabilities arising from the showing, exhibition, sale, or auction of said horses.
8
The duration of the show, exhibition, or sale or auction.
6
See footnote 6 to § 11.7.
(2) The DQP shall physically inspect: (i) All Tennessee Walking Horses and racking horses entered for sale or auction, (ii) all Tennessee Walking Horses and racking horses entered in any animated gait class (whether under saddle, horse to cart, or otherwise), (iii) all Tennessee Walking Horses and racking horses entered for exhibition before
they are admitted to be shown, exhibited, sold, or auctioned, and (iv) all Tennessee Walking Horses and racking horses tyed first in their class or event at any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction. Such inspection shall be for the purpose of determining whether any such horses are in violation of the Act or regulations. Such physical examination shall be conducted in accordance with the inspection procedures provided for in § 11.21 of this part. The DQP shall observe horses in the warmup ring and during actual performances whenever possible, and shall inspect any Tennessee Walking Horse or racking horse at any time he deems necessary to determine whether any such horse shown, exhibited, sold, or auctioned is in violation of the Act or regulations. If present at other shows, he shall examine any horse which he determines should be examined for compliance with the Act and regulations.
(3) The DQP shall immediately report, to the management of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, any horse which, in his opinion, is sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations. Such report shall be made, whenever possible, before the show class or exhibition involving said horse has begun or before said horse is offered for sale or auction.
(c) The management of any horse show, exhibition, sale, or auction that designates and appoints a DQP to inspect horses shall appoint and designate at least two DQP's when more than 150 horses are entered.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0056)
[44 FR 25182, Apr. 27, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 57471, Dec. 30, 1983; 55 FR 41993, Oct. 17, 1990; 56 FR 13750, Apr. 4, 1991; 57 FR 62175, Dec. 30, 1992]
§ 11.21
Inspection procedures for designated qualified persons (DQPs).
(a)(1) During the preshow inspection, the DQP shall direct the custodian of the horse to walk and turn the horse in a manner that allows the DQP to determine whether the horse exhibits signs of soreness. The DQP shall determine whether the horse moves in a free and easy manner and is free of any signs of soreness.
(2) The DQP shall digitally palpate the front limbs of the horse from knee to hoof, with particular emphasis on the pasterns and fetlocks. The DQP shall examine the posterior surface of the pastern by picking up the foot and examining the posterior (flexor) surface. The DQP shall apply digital pressure to the pocket (sulcus), including the bulbs of the heel, and continue the palpation to the medial and lateral surfaces of the pastern, being careful to observe for responses to pain in the horse. While continuing to hold onto the pastern, the DQP shall extend the foot and leg of the horse to examine the front (extensor) surfaces, including the coronary band. The DQP may examine the rear limbs of all horses inspected after showing, and may examine the rear limbs of any horse examined preshow or on the showgrounds when he deems it necessary, except that the DQP shall examine the rear limbs of all horses exhibiting lesions on, or unusual movement of, the rear legs. While carrying out the procedures set forth in this paragraph, the DQP shall also inspect the horse to determine whether the provisions of § 11.3 of this part are being complied with, and particularly whether there is any evidence of inflammation, edema, or proliferating granuloma tissue.
(3) The DQP shall observe and inspect all horses for compliance with the provisions set forth in § 11.2(a) through § 11.2(c) of this part. All action devices, pads, and other equipment shall be observed and/or examined to assure that they are in compliance with the regulations. All such equipment on horses examined postshow, and on horses examined preshow that are not clearly in compliance, shall be weighed and/or measured.
(4) The DQP shall instruct the custodian of the horse to control it by holding the reins approximately 18 inches from the bit shank. The DQP shall not be required to examine a horse if it is presented in a manner that might cause the horse not to react to a DQP's examination, or if whips, cigarette smoke, or other actions or paraphernalia are used to distract a horse during examination. All such incidents
shall be reported to the show management and the DQP licensing organization.
(b) The DQP shall inspect horses no more than three classes ahead of the time the inspected horses are to be shown, except that, in shows with fewer than 150 horses, the DQP shall inspect horses no more than 2 classes ahead of the time the inspected horses are to be shown. Inspected horses shall be held in a designated area that is under observation by the DQP or APHIS representative. Horses shall not be permitted to leave the designated area before showing. Only the horse, the rider, the groom, the trainer, the DQP(s) and APHIS representatives shall be allowed in the designated area.
(c) The DQP may carry out additional inspection procedures as he deems necessary to determine whether the horse is sore.
(d) The HIO that licensed the DQP shall assess and enforce penalties for violations in accordance with § 11.25 and shall report all violations in accordance with § 11.20(b)(3).
[55 FR 41993, Oct. 17, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 13750, Apr. 4, 1991; 57 FR 62175, Dec. 30, 1992; 77 FR 33618, June 7, 2012; 78 FR 27001, May 9, 2013]
§ 11.22
Records required and disposition thereof.
(a) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, that contains Tennessee Walking Horses or racking horses, shall maintain for a period of at least 90 days following the closing date of said show, exhibition, or sale or auction, all pertinent records containing:
(1) The dates and place of the horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction.
(2) The name and address (including street address or post office box number and ZIP code) of the sponsoring organization.
(3) The name and address of the horse show, exhibition, horse sale or horse auction management.
(4) The name and address (including street address or post office box number and ZIP code) of the DQP, if any, employed to conduct inspections under § 11.20; and, the name of the horse industry organization or association certifying the DQP.
(5) The name and address (including street address or post office box number, and ZIP code) of each show judge.
(6) A copy of each class or sale sheet containing the names of horses, the names and addresses (including street address, post office box and ZIP code) of horse owners, the exhibitor number and class number, or sale number assigned to each horse, the show class or sale lot number, and the name and address (including street address, post office box, and ZIP code) of the person paying the entry fee and entering the horse in a horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction.
(7) A copy of the official horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction program, if any such program has been prepared.
(8) The identification of each horse, including the name of the horse, the name and address (including street address, post office box, and ZIP code) of the owner, the trainer, the rider or other exhibitor, and the location (including street address, post office box, and ZIP code) of the home barn or other facility where the horse is stabled.
(b) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction containing Tennessee Walking Horses or racking horses shall designate a person to maintain the records required in this section.
(c) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction containing Tennessee Walking Horses or racking horses shall furnish to any APHIS representative, upon request, the name and address (including street address, or post office box, and ZIP code) of the person designated by the sponsoring organization or manager to maintain the records required by this section.
(d) The Administrator may, in specific cases, require that a horse show,
horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction records be maintained by management for a period in excess of 90 days.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0056, and 0579-0058)
(44 U.S.C. 3506)
[44 FR 25179, Apr. 27, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 57471, Dec. 30, 1983. Redesignated at 55 FR 41993, Oct. 17, 1990; 56 FR 13750, Apr. 4, 1991]
§ 11.23
Inspection of records.
(a) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction shall permit any APHIS representative, upon request, to examine and make copies of any and all records pertaining to any horse, either required in any part of the regulations, or otherwise maintained, during ordinary business hours or such other times as may be mutually agreed upon. A room, table, or other facilities necessary for proper examination of such records shall be made available to the APHIS representative.
(b) Horse industry organizations or associations who train, maintain, and license DQP's under a certified DQP program shall permit any APHIS representative, upon request, to examine and copy any and all records relating to the DQP program which are required by any part of the regulations. Such requests shall be made during ordinary business hours or such other times as mutually agreed upon. A room, table or other facilities necessary for proper examination shall be made available upon the request of the APHIS representative.
[44 FR 25179, Apr. 27, 1979. Redesignated at 55 FR 41993, Oct. 17, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 13750, Apr. 4, 1991]
§ 11.24
Reporting by management.
(a) Within 5 days following the conclusion of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, containing Tennessee Walking Horses or racking horses, the managements of such show, exhibition, sale or auction shall submit to the Regional Director
1
for the State in which the show, exhibition, sale or auction was held, the information required by § 11.22(a)(1) through (6) for each horse excused or disqualified by management or its representatives from being shown, exhibited, sold or auctioned, and the reasons for such action. If no horses are excused or disqualified, the management shall submit a report so stating.
1
See footnote 1 to § 11.1.
(b) Within 5 days following the conclusion of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction which does not contain Tennessee Walking Horses or racking horses, the management of such show, exhibition, sale or auction shall inform the Regional Director for the State in which the show, exhibition, sale or auction was held, of any case where a horse was excused or disqualified by management or its representatives from being shown, exhibited, sold or auctioned because it was found to be sore.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0056)
[44 FR 25179, Apr. 27, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 57471, Dec. 30, 1983; 55 FR 41994, Oct. 17, 1990; 56 FR 13750, Apr. 4, 1991; 63 FR 62927, Nov. 10, 1998]
§ 11.25
Minimum penalties to be assessed and enforced by HIOs that license DQPs.
(a)
Rulebook.
Each HIO that licenses DQPs in accordance with § 11.7 must include in its rulebook, and enforce, penalties for the violations listed in this section that equal or exceed the penalties listed in paragraph (c) of this section and must also enforce the requirement in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Suspensions.
(1) For the violations listed in paragraph (c) of this section that require a suspension, any individuals who are responsible for showing the horse, exhibiting the horse, entering or allowing the entry of the horse in a show or exhibition, selling the horse, auctioning the horse, or offering the horse for sale or auction must be suspended. This may include, but may not be limited to, the manager, trainer, rider, custodian, or seller, as applicable. In addition, if the owner allowed any activity listed in this paragraph, the owner must be suspended as well.
(2) Any person who is responsible for the shipping, moving, delivering, or receiving of any horse that is found to be bilaterally sore or unilaterally sore as
defined in paragraph (c) of this section, in violation of the scar rule in § 11.3, or in violation of the prohibition against the use of foreign substances in § 11.2(c), with reason to believe that such horse was to be shown, exhibited, entered for the purpose of being shown or exhibited, sold, auctioned, or offered for sale in any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, must be suspended;
Provided,
that this requirement does not apply if the horse was transported by a common or contract carrier or an employee thereof in the usual course of the carrier's business or the employee's employment, unless the carrier or employee had reason to believe that the horse was sore.
(3) A person who is suspended must not be permitted to show or exhibit any horse or judge or manage any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction for the duration of the suspension.
(4) Any person with multiple suspensions must serve them consecutively, not concurrently.
(c)
Minimum penalties
—(1)
Bilateral sore.
A horse is found to be sore in both its forelimbs or hindlimbs. The horse must be dismissed from the remainder of the horse show, exhibition, sale, or auction. First offense: Suspension for 1 year. Second offense: Suspension for 2 years. Third offense and any subsequent offenses: Suspension for 4 years.
(2)
Unilateral sore.
A horse is found to be sore in one of its forelimbs or hindlimbs. The horse must be dismissed from the remainder of the horse show, exhibition, sale, or auction. First offense: Suspension for 60 days. Second offense: Suspension for 120 days. Third offense and any subsequent offenses: Suspension for 1 year.
(3)
Scar rule violation.
A horse is found to be in violation of the scar rule in § 11.3. The horse must be dismissed from the remainder of the horse show, exhibition, sale, or auction. First offense: Suspension for 2 weeks (14 days). Second offense: Suspension for 60 days. Third offense and any subsequent offenses: Suspension for 1 year.
(4)
Foreign substance violations.
Violations of the prohibition against the use of foreign substances in § 11.2(c).
(i)
Before or during the show, exhibition, sale, or auction.
The horse must be dismissed from the remainder of the horse show, exhibition, sale, or auction.
(ii)
After the show, exhibition, sale, or auction.
Suspension for 2 weeks (14 days). The horse must be dismissed from the remainder of the horse show, exhibition, sale, or auction.
(5)
Equipment violation.
Violations of the equipment-related prohibitions in § 11.2(b)(1) through (b)(10) and (b)(12) through (b)(17).
(i)
Before or during the show, exhibition, sale, or auction.
The horse must be dismissed from the remainder of the horse show, exhibition, sale, or auction.
(ii)
After the show, exhibition, sale, or auction.
Suspension for 2 weeks (14 days). The horse must be dismissed from the remainder of the horse show, exhibition, sale, or auction.
(6)
Shoeing violation.
Violation of the shoeing-related prohibitions in § 11.2(b)(18) and (b)(19). The horse must be dismissed from the remainder of the horse show, exhibition, sale, or auction.
(7)
Heel-toe ratio.
Violation of the heel-toe ratio requirement in § 11.2(b)(11). The horse must be dismissed from the remainder of the horse show, exhibition, sale, or auction.
(8)
Suspension violation.
A violation of any suspension penalty previously issued. Suspension for an additional 6 months (180 days) for each occurrence.
(d)
Unruly or fractious horse.
A horse that cannot be inspected in accordance with § 11.21. The horse must be dismissed from the individual class for which it was to be inspected.
(e)
Appeals.
The HIO must provide a process in its rulebook for alleged violators to appeal penalties. The process must be approved by the Department. For all appeals, the appeal must be granted and the case heard and decided by the HIO or the violator must begin serving the penalty within 60 days of the date of the violation. The HIO must submit to the Department all decisions on penalty appeals within 30 days of the completion of the appeal. When a penalty is overturned on appeal, the HIO must also submit evidence composing the record of the HIO's decision on the appeal.
(f)
Departmental prosecution.
The Department retains the authority to initiate enforcement proceedings with respect to any violation of the Act, including violations for which penalties are assessed in accordance with this section, and to impose the penalties authorized by the Act if the Department determines that such actions are necessary to fulfill the purpose of the Act and this part. In addition, the Department reserves the right to inform the Attorney General of any violation of the Act or of this part, including violations for which penalties are assessed in accordance with this section.
[77 FR 33618, June 7, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 3071, Jan. 17, 2014]
§ 11.40
Prohibitions and requirements concerning persons involved in transportation of certain horses.
(a) Each person who ships, transports, or otherwise moves, or delivers or receives for movement, any horse with reason to believe such horse may be shown, exhibited, sold or auctioned at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, shall allow and assist in the inspection of such horse at any such show, exhibition, sale, or auction to determine compliance with the Act as provided in § 11.4 of the regulations and shall furnish to any APHIS representatives upon his request the following information:
(1) Name and address (including street address, post office box, and ZIP code) of the horse owner and of the shipper, if different from the owner or trainer.
(2) Name and address (including street address, post office box, and ZIP code) of the horse trainer.
(3) Name and address (including street address, post office box, and ZIP code) of the carrier transporting the horse, and of the driver of the means of conveyance used.
(4) Origin of the shipment and date thereof, and,
(5) Destination of shipment.
(b) [Reserved]
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0056)
[44 FR 25179, Apr. 27, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 57471, Dec. 30, 1983; 56 FR 13750, Apr. 4, 1991]
§ 11.41
Reporting required of horse industry organizations or associations.
Each horse industry organization or association which sponsors, or which sanctions any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, shall furnish the Department
6
by March 1 of each year with all such organization or association rulebooks, and disciplinary procedures for the previous year pertaining to violations of the Horse Protection Act or regulations, applicable to such horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction. Rulebooks and information relating to disciplinary procedures for violations of the Horse Protection Act or regulations should be readily available to all exhibitors, trainers, and owners of horses at such show, exhibition, sale, or auction. Each horse industry organization or association shall furnish the Department
6
with a quarterly report of all disciplinary actions taken against the management or any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction, any exhibitor, or any licensed DQP, for violation of the Horse Protection Act or regulations, and the results thereof.
6
See footnote 6 to § 11.7.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0056)
[44 FR 25179, Apr. 27, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 57471, Dec. 30, 1983]
Pt. 11, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 39244, May 8, 2024, part 11 was revised, effective Feb. 1, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:

# PART 11—HORSE PROTECTION REGULATIONS (EFF. 02-01-25)
Sec.
11.1
Definitions.
11.2
[Reserved]
11.3
Non-interference with APHIS representatives and HPIs.
11.4
Owners, trainers, exhibitors, custodians, transporters, and any other person who has been disqualified.
11.5
Appeal of disqualification.
11.6
Prohibitions concerning exhibitors.
11.7
Dermatologic conditions indicative of soring.
11.8
Inspection and detention of horses.
11.9
Access to premises and records.
11.10
Inspection space and facility requirements.
11.11-11.12
[Reserved]
11.13
Responsibilities and liabilities of management.
11.14
Records required and disposition thereof.
11.15
Inspection of records.
11.16
Reporting by management.
11.17
Requirements concerning persons involved in transportation of certain horses.
11.18
Utilization of inspectors.
11.19
Authorization and training of Horse Protection Inspectors.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1823-1825 and 1828; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.7.

# Source:
89 FR 39244, May 8, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 11.1
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in this section. The singular form shall also impart the plural.
Act
means the Horse Protection Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-540) as amended by the Horse Protection Act Amendments of 1976 (Pub. L. 94-360), 15 U.S.C. 1821
et seq.,
and any legislation amendatory thereof.
Action device
means any boot, collar, chain, roller, beads, bangles, or other device which encircles or is placed upon the lower extremity of the leg of a horse in such a manner that it can either rotate around the leg, or slide up and down the leg so as to cause friction, or which can strike the hoof, coronet band or fetlock joint.
Administrator
means the Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator. Mail for the Administrator should be sent to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Animal Care/Horse Protection, 2150 Centre Avenue, Building B, Mailstop 3W11, Fort Collins, CO 80526-8117. Electronic mail for the Administrator should be sent to
horseprotection@usda.gov.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS)
means the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
APHIS representative
means any employee or official of APHIS.
Custodian
means any adult person, age 18 or older, who has control of and presents a horse for inspection at any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction. The custodian must be able to provide information about the horse that is required by this part.
Day(s)
means business days,
i.e.,
days other than weekends and Federal holidays.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).
Event manager
means the person who has been delegated primary authority by a sponsoring organization for managing a horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction.
Exhibitor
means:
(1) Any person who enters any horse, any person who allows his or her horse to be entered, or any person who directs or allows any horse in his or her custody or under his or her direction, control, or supervision to be entered in any horse show or horse exhibition;
(2) Any person who shows or exhibits any horse, any person who allows his or her horse to be shown or exhibited, or any person who directs or allows any horse in his or her custody or under his or her direction, control, or supervision to be shown or exhibited in any horse show or horse exhibition;
(3) Any person who enters or presents any horse for sale or auction, any person who allows his or her horse to be entered or presented for sale or auction, or any person who allows any horse in his or her custody or under his or her direction, control, or supervision to be entered or presented for sale or auction in any horse sale or auction; or
(4) Any person who sells or auctions any horse, any person who allows his or her horse to be sold or auctioned, or any person who directs or allows any horse in his or her custody or under his or her direction, control, or supervision to be sold or auctioned.
Horse
means any member of the species
Equus caballus.
Horse exhibition
means a public display of any horses, singly or in groups, but not in competition. The term does not include events where speed is the prime factor, rodeo events, parades, or trail rides.
Horse Protection Inspector (HPI)
means a person meeting the qualifications in § 11.19 whom the Administrator has authorized as an HPI and who may be appointed by management or a representative of management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale or horse auction under section 4 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1823) to detect or diagnose horses which are sore or to otherwise inspect horses and any records pertaining to such horses for the purposes of detecting or diagnosing soring. HPIs are not employees of APHIS.
Horse sale
or
horse auction
means any event, public or private, at which horses are sold or auctioned, regardless of whether or not said horses are exhibited prior to or during the sale or auction.
Horse show
means a public display of any horses, in competition, except events where speed is the prime factor, rodeo events, parades, or trail rides.
Inspection
means any visual, physical, and diagnostic means approved by APHIS to determine compliance with the Act and regulations. Such inspection may include, but is not limited to, visual examination of a horse and review of records, physical examination of a horse, including touching, rubbing,
palpating, and observation of vital signs, and the use of any diagnostic device or instrument, and may require the removal of any shoe or any other equipment, substance, or paraphernalia from the horse when deemed necessary by the professional conducting such inspection.
Local area
means an area within a 10-mile radius of the horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction.
Management
means any person or persons who organize, exercise control over, or administer or are responsible for organizing, directing, or administering any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale or horse auction and specifically includes, but is not limited to, the sponsoring organization and event manager.
Participate
means engaging in any activity, either directly or through an agent, beyond that of a spectator in connection with a horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction, and includes, without limitation, transporting, or arranging for the transportation of, horses to or from equine events, personally giving instructions to exhibitors, being present in the warm-up or inspection areas or in any area where spectators are not allowed, and financing the participation of others in equine events.
Person
means any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, organization, joint stock company, State or local government agency, or other legal entity.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture or anyone who has heretofore or may hereafter be delegated authority to act in his or her stead.
Sore
when used to describe a horse means:
(1) An irritating or blistering agent has been applied, internally or externally, by a person to any limb of a horse;
(2) Any burn, cut, or laceration has been inflicted by a person on any limb of a horse;
(3) Any tack, nail, screw, or chemical agent has been injected by a person into or used on any limb of a horse; or
(4) Any other substance or device has been used by a person on any limb of a horse or a person has engaged in a practice involving a horse, and, as a result of such application, infliction, injection, use, or practice, such horse suffers, or can reasonably be expected to suffer, physical pain or distress, inflammation, or lameness when walking, trotting, or otherwise moving, except that such term does not include such an application, infliction, injection, use, or practice in connection with the therapeutic treatment of a horse by or under the supervision of a person licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the State in which such treatment was given.
Sponsoring organization
means any person or entity whose direction supports and who assumes responsibility for a horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction that has, is, or will be conducted.
State
means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Northern Mariana Islands or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
Therapeutic treatment
means relating to the treatment of disease, injury, or disorder by or under the supervision of a person licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the State in which such treatment was prescribed.
§ 11.2
[Reserved]
§ 11.3
Non-interference with APHIS representatives and HPIs.
No person shall assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with APHIS representatives or HPIs appointed by management, or in any way influence attendees of a horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction or other individuals to do the same.
§ 11.4
Owners, trainers, exhibitors, custodians, transporters, and any other person who has been disqualified.
Any person who has been disqualified by the Secretary from participating in any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction shall not show, exhibit, or enter any horse, directly or indirectly through any agent, employee, corporation, partnership, or other device, and shall not judge, manage, or otherwise participate in events covered by the Act within the period during which the disqualification is in effect.
§ 11.5
Appeal of disqualification.
Any horse owner, trainer, exhibitor, custodian (or any other person responsible for entering the horse in an event), or transporter may appeal to the Administrator on whether a disqualification decision concerning a horse at a horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, horse auction, or other covered event was justified. The APHIS representative or HPI will provide the inspection report to the custodian following the disqualification. There may only be one appeal per disqualified horse per event; however, all parties with interest in the disqualification may contribute to the appeal. To appeal, the horse owner, trainer, exhibitor, custodian (or any other person responsible for entering the horse in an event), or transporter must send a written statement contesting the disqualification and include any documentation or other information in support of the appeal. To receive consideration, the appeal must be received by the Administrator, preferably by electronic mail, to
horseprotection@usda.gov
within 21 days of the date the horse owner, trainer, exhibitor, custodian (or any other person responsible for entering the horse in
an event), or transporter received the disqualification that is the subject of the appeal. If expedited review of the appeal is requested, this must be noted as such, and information in support of this request must accompany the appeal. The Administrator will send a final decision, in writing via either electronic mail or postal mail, to the person requesting the appeal as promptly as practicable.

# Note 1 to § 11.5:
Appeals may also be sent by U.S. mail to APHIS, 2150 Centre Ave, Bldg. B, MS 3W-11, Fort Collins, CO 80547.
§ 11.6
Prohibitions concerning exhibitors.
(a)
General prohibitions for all horses.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, no action device, method, practice, or substance shall be used with respect to any horse at any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction if such use causes or can reasonably be expected to cause such horse to be sore or is otherwise used to mask previous and/or ongoing soring.
(b)
Prohibited devices, equipment, and practices.
The use of the following action devices, equipment, or practices on any horse, at any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction is prohibited:
(1) More than one action device permitted under this section on any limb of a horse.
(2) All beads, bangles, rollers, and similar devices, with the exception of rollers made of lignum vitae (hardwood), aluminum, or stainless steel, with individual rollers of uniform size, weight and configuration, provided each such device may not weigh more than 6 ounces, including the weight of the fastener.
(3) Chains weighing more than 6 ounces each, including the weight of the fastener.
(4) Chains with links that are not of uniform size, weight, and configuration; and chains that have twisted links or double links.
(5) Chains that have drop links on any horse that is being ridden, worked on a lead, or otherwise worked out or moved about.
(6) Chains or lignum vitae, stainless steel, or aluminum rollers which are not smooth and free of protrusions, projections, rust, corrosion, or rough or sharp edges.
(7) Boots, collars, or any other devices, with protrusions or swellings, or rigid, rough, or sharp edges, seams or any other abrasive or abusive surface that may contact a horse's leg.
(8) Boots, collars, or any other devices that weigh more than 6 ounces, except for soft rubber or soft leather bell boots and/or quarter boots that are used as protective devices.
(9) Pads or other devices on horses up to 2 years old that elevate or change the angle of such horses' hooves in excess of 1 inch at the heel.
(10) Any weight on horses up to 2 years old, except a keg or similar conventional horseshoe that weighs 16 ounces or less, and any horseshoe on horses up to 2 years old that weighs more than 16 ounces.
(11) Artificial extension of the toe length, whether accomplished with pads, acrylics, or any other material or combinations thereof, that exceeds 50 percent of the natural hoof length, as measured from the coronet band, at the center of the front pastern along the front of the hoof wall, to the distal portion of the hoof wall at the tip of the toe. The artificial extension shall be measured from the distal portion of the hoof wall at the tip of the toe at a 90-degree angle to the proximal (foot/hoof) surface of the shoe.
(12) Toe length that does not exceed the height of the heel by 1 inch or more. The length of the toe shall be measured from the coronet band, at the center of the front pastern along the front of the hoof wall to the ground. The heel shall be measured from the coronet band, at the most lateral portion of the pastern, at a 90-degree angle to the ground, not including normal caulks at the rear of a horseshoe that do not exceed 3-4 inch in length. That portion of caulk at the rear of a horseshoe in excess of 3-4 of an inch shall be added to the height of the heel in determining the heel/toe ratio.
(13) Pads that are not made of leather, plastic, or a similar pliant material.
(14) Any object or material inserted between the pad and the hoof other than acceptable hoof packing, which includes pine tar, oakum, live rubber, sponge rubber, silicone, commercial hoof packing, or other substances used to maintain adequate frog pressure or sole consistency. Acrylic and other hardening substances are prohibited as hoof packing.
(15) Single or double rocker-bars on the bottom surface of horseshoes which extend more than 1 1-2 inches back from the point of the toe, or which would cause, or could reasonably be expected to cause, an unsteadiness of stance in the horse with resulting muscle and tendon strain due to the horse's weight and balance being focused upon a small fulcrum point.
(16) Metal hoof bands, such as used to anchor or strengthen pads and shoes, placed less than 1-2 inch below the coronet band.
(17) Metal hoof bands that can be easily and quickly loosened or tightened by hand, by means such as, but not limited to, a wing-nut or similar fastener.
(18) Any action device or any other device that strikes the coronet band of the foot of the horse except for soft rubber or soft leather bell boots that are used as protective devices.
(19) Shoeing a horse, trimming a horse's hoof, or paring the frog or sole in a manner that will cause such horse to suffer, or can reasonably be expected to cause such horse to suffer pain or distress, inflammation, or lameness when walking, trotting, or otherwise moving. Bruising of the hoof or any
other method of pressure shoeing is also prohibited.
(20) Lead or other weights attached to the outside of the hoof wall, the outside surface of the horseshoe, or any portion of the pad except the bottom surface within the horseshoe. Pads may not be hollowed out for the purpose of inserting or affixing weights, and weights may not extend below the bearing surface of the shoe. Hollow shoes or artificial extensions filled with mercury or similar substances are prohibited.
(21) The use of whips, cigarette smoke, or other stewarding actions or paraphernalia to distract a horse or to otherwise impede the inspection process during an examination, including but not limited to, holding the reins less than 18 inches from the bit shank is prohibited.
(c)
Specific prohibitions for Tennessee Walking Horses and racking horses.
(1) All action devices are prohibited on any Tennessee Walking Horse or racking horse at any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction.
(2) All artificial extension of the toe length is prohibited on any Tennessee Walking Horse or racking horse at any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction, unless such horse has been prescribed and is receiving therapeutic treatment using artificial extension of the toe length as approved in writing by a licensed veterinarian.
(3) All pads and wedges are prohibited on any Tennessee Walking Horse or racking horse at any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction, unless such horse has been prescribed and is receiving therapeutic treatment using pads or wedges as approved in writing by a licensed veterinarian.
(4) All substances are prohibited on the extremities above the hoof of any Tennessee Walking Horse or racking horse entered for the purpose of being shown or exhibited, sold, auctioned, or offered for sale in or on the grounds of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction, unless such horse has been prescribed and is receiving therapeutic treatment using substances as approved in writing by a licensed veterinarian.
(d)
Competition restrictions—2-year-old horses.
Horse show or horse exhibition workouts or performances of 2-year-old Tennessee Walking Horses and racking horses and working exhibitions of 2-year-old Tennessee Walking Horses and racking horses (horses eligible to be shown or exhibited in 2-year-old classes) at horse sales or horse auctions that exceed a total of 10 minutes continuous workout or performance without a minimum 5-minute rest period between the first such 10-minute period and the second such 10-minute period, and, more than two such 10-minute periods per performance, class, or workout are prohibited.
(e)
Information requirements—Horse-related.
Failing to provide information or providing any false or misleading information required by the Act or regulations or requested by APHIS representatives or HPIs appointed by management, by any person that enters, owns, trains, shows, exhibits, transports or sells or has custody of, or direction or control over any horse shown, exhibited, sold, or auctioned or entered for the purpose of being shown, exhibited, sold, or auctioned at any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction is prohibited and may result in disqualification under § 11.13. Such information shall include, but is not limited to: Information concerning the name, any applicable registration name and number, markings, sex, age, and legal ownership of the horse; the name and address of the horse's training and/or stabling facilities; the name and address of the owner, trainer, rider, custodian, any other exhibitor, or other legal entity bearing responsibility for the horse; the class in which the horse is entered or shown; the exhibitor identification number; and, any other information reasonably related to the identification, ownership, control, direction, or supervision of any such horse.
§ 11.7
Dermatologic conditions indicative of soring.
If an HPI or APHIS representative, upon inspection, finds that any limb of a horse displays one or more dermatologic conditions that they determine are indicative of soring as that term is defined in 15 U.S.C. 1821, the horse shall be presumed to be sore and subject to all prohibitions set forth in 15 U.S.C. 1824. Examples of dermatologic conditions that will be evaluated in determining whether a horse is sore shall include, but are not limited to, irritation, moisture, edema, swelling, redness, epidermal thickening, and loss of hair (patchy or diffuse).
§ 11.8
Inspection and detention of horses.
(a) For the purpose of effective enforcement of the Act, each horse owner, exhibitor, trainer, or other person having custody of, or responsibility for, any horse at any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction, shall allow any APHIS representative or HPI appointed by management to inspect such horse at all reasonable times and places the APHIS representative or HPI may designate. Such inspections may be required of any horse which is stabled, loaded on a trailer, being prepared for show, exhibition, or sale or auction, being exercised or otherwise on the grounds of, or present at, any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or horse auction, whether or not such horse has or has not been shown, exhibited, or sold or auctioned, or has or has not been entered for the purpose of being shown or exhibited or offered for sale or auction at any such horse
show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or horse auction. APHIS representatives and HPIs appointed by management will not generally or routinely delay or interrupt actual individual classes or performances at horse shows, horse exhibitions, or horse sales or auctions for the purpose of examining horses, but they may do so in extraordinary situations, such as but not limited to, lack of proper facilities for inspection, refusal of management to cooperate with inspection efforts, reason to believe that failure to immediately perform inspection may result in the loss, removal, or masking of any evidence of a violation of the Act or the regulations, or a request by management that such inspections be performed by an APHIS representative.
(b) When any APHIS representative or HPI appointed by management notifies the owner, exhibitor, trainer, or other person having custody of or responsibility for a horse at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or horse auction that APHIS desires to inspect such horse, it shall not be moved from the horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or horse auction until such inspection has been completed and the horse has been released by an APHIS representative.
(c) For the purpose of inspection, testing, or taking of evidence, APHIS representatives may detain for a period not to exceed 24 hours any horse, at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or horse auction, which is sore or which an APHIS representative has probable cause to believe is sore. Such detained horse may be marked for identification and any such identifying markings shall not be removed by any person other than an APHIS representative.
(d) Detained horses shall be kept under the supervision of an APHIS representative or secured under an official USDA seal or seals in a horse stall, horse trailer, or other facility to which access shall be limited. It shall be the policy of APHIS to have at least one representative present in the immediate detention area when a horse is being held in detention. The official USDA seal or seals may not be broken or removed by any person other than an APHIS representative, unless:
(1) The life or well-being of the detained horse is immediately endangered by fire, flood, windstorm, or other dire circumstances that are beyond human control.
(2) The detained horse is in need of such immediate veterinary attention that its life may be in peril before an APHIS representative can be located.
(3) The horse has been detained for a maximum 24-hour detention period, and an APHIS representative is not available to release the horse.
(e) The owner, exhibitor, trainer, or other person having custody of or responsibility for any horse detained by APHIS for further inspection, testing, or the taking of evidence shall be allowed to feed, water, and provide other normal custodial and maintenance care, such as walking, grooming, etc., for such detained horse, provided that:
(1) Such feeding, watering, and other normal custodial and maintenance care of the detained horse is rendered under the direct supervision of an APHIS representative.
(2) Any non-emergency veterinary care of the detained horse requiring the use, application, or injection of any drugs or other medication for therapeutic or other purposes is rendered by a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine in the presence of an APHIS representative and, the identity and dosage of the drug or other medication used, applied, or injected and its purpose is furnished in writing to the APHIS representative prior to such use, application, or injection by the Doctor of Veterinary Medicine attending a horse. The use, application, or injection of such drug or other medication must be approved by the APHIS representative.
(f) It shall be the policy of an APHIS representative or HPI appointed by management to inform the owner, trainer, exhibitor, or other person having immediate custody of or responsibility for any horse allegedly found to be in violation of the Act or the regulations of such alleged violation or violations before the horse is released as determined by an APHIS representative.
(g) The owner, trainer, exhibitor, or other person having immediate custody of or responsibility for any horse or horses that an APHIS representative determines shall be detained for inspection, testing, or taking of evidence pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section shall be informed after such determination is made and shall allow said horse to be immediately put under the supervisory custody of APHIS or secured under official USDA seal as provided in paragraph (d) of this section until the completion of such inspection, testing, or gathering of evidence, or until the 24-hour detention period expires.
(h) The owner, trainer, exhibitor, or other person having custody of or responsibility for any horse allegedly found to be in violation of the Act or regulations, and who has been informed of such alleged violation by an APHIS representative or HPI appointed by management as stated in paragraph (f) of this section, may request re-inspection and testing of said horse within a 24-hour period, and an APHIS representative will grant the request provided that:
(1) Such request is made to an APHIS representative immediately after the horse has been inspected by an APHIS representative or HPI appointed by management and before such horse has been removed from the inspection facilities;
(2) An APHIS representative determines that sufficient cause for re-inspection and testing exists; and
(3) The horse is maintained under APHIS supervisory custody as prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section until such re-inspection and testing has been completed.
(i) The owner, exhibitor, trainer, or other person having custody of, or responsibility for, any horse being inspected shall render such assistance, as the APHIS representative or HPI appointed by management may request, for the purposes of such inspection.
§ 11.9
Access to premises and records.
(a)
Management.
(1) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction shall, without fee, charge, assessment, or other compensation, provide APHIS representatives and HPIs appointed by management with unlimited access to the grandstands, sale ring, barns, stables, grounds, offices, and all other areas of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, including any adjacent areas under their direction, control, or supervision for the purpose of inspecting any horses, or any records required to be kept by regulation or otherwise maintained.
(2) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction shall, without fee, charge, assessment, or other compensation, provide APHIS representatives and HPIs appointed by management with an adequate, safe, and accessible area for the visual inspection and observation of horses.
(b)
Exhibitors.
(1) Each horse owner, trainer, exhibitor, or other person having custody of or responsibility for any horse at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction shall, without fee, charge, assessment, or other compensation, admit any APHIS representatives and HPIs appointed by management to all areas of barns, compounds, horse vans, horse trailers, stables, stalls, paddocks, or other show, exhibition, or sale or auction grounds or related areas at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction, for the purpose of inspecting any such horse, at any and all times.
(2) Each owner, trainer, exhibitor, or other person having custody of or responsibility for, any horse at any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction shall promptly present his or her horse for inspection upon notification, orally or in writing, by any APHIS representatives or HPIs appointed by the management that said horse has been selected for inspection for the purpose of determining whether such horse is in compliance with the Act and regulations.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0056)
§ 11.10
Inspection space and facility requirements.
(a) The management of every horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction shall provide, without fee, charge, assessment, or other compensation, sufficient space and facilities for APHIS representatives and HPIs appointed by management to carry out their duties under the Act and regulations when requested to do so by APHIS representatives or HPIs appointed by management, whether or not management has received prior notification or otherwise knows that such show, exhibition, sale, or auction may be inspected by APHIS. With respect to such space and facilities, it shall be the responsibility of management to provide at least the following:
(1) Sufficient, well-lit space in a convenient location to the horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction arena, acceptable to APHIS representatives and HPIs appointed by management, in which horses may be inspected.
(2) Protection from the elements of nature, such as rain, snow, sleet, hail, windstorm, etc.
(3) A means to control crowds or onlookers in order that APHIS representatives and HPIs appointed by management may carry out their duties safely and without interference.
(4) An accessible, reliable, and convenient 110-volt electrical power source available at the show, exhibition, sale, or auction site.
(5) Appropriate areas adjacent to the inspection area for designated horses to wait before and after inspection, and an area to be used for detention of horses.
(b) Other than the persons noted below, only a management representative, HPIs appointed by management, and APHIS representatives are allowed in the warm-up and inspection areas. Each horse in the inspection area may only be accompanied by the person having immediate custody of or responsibility for the horse. Inspected horses shall be held in a designated area under the observation by a management representative and shall not be permitted to leave the designated area before showing. Each horse in the designated warm-up area may be accompanied by no more than three individuals, including the person having immediate custody of or responsibility for the horse, the trainer, and the rider. No other persons are allowed in the warm-up or inspection areas without prior approval from an APHIS representative or HPI appointed by management.
§§ 11.11-11.12
[Reserved]
§ 11.13
Responsibilities and liabilities of management.
(a)
Horse shows, horse exhibitions, horse sales, and horse auctions at which the management does not utilize an APHIS representative or HPI.
The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction
which does not utilize an APHIS representative or appoint an HPI shall be responsible for identifying all horses that are sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations, and shall disqualify or prohibit any horses which are sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations from participating or competing in any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction. Horses entered for sale or auction at a horse sale or horse auction must be inspected and, as appropriate, identified as sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations prior to the sale or auction and, as required by the Act, prohibited from entering the sale or auction ring. Sore horses or horses otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations that have been entered in a horse show or horse exhibition for the purpose of show or exhibition must be identified and disqualified prior to the show or exhibition. Any horses found to be sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations during actual participation in the show or exhibition, must be removed from further participation immediately (
e.g.,
prior to the horse placing in the class or the completion of the exhibition). All horses that placed first in each class or event at any horse show or horse exhibition shall be inspected after being shown or exhibited to determine if such horses are sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations.
(b)
Horse shows, horse exhibitions, horse sales, and horse auctions at which the management utilizes an APHIS representative or HPI appointed by management.
(1) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction that utilizes an APHIS representative or HPI appointed by management shall not take any action which will interfere with or influence the APHIS representative or HPI appointed by management in carrying out their duties.
(2) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction that utilizes an HPI to inspect horses shall appoint at least 2 HPIs when more than 100 horses are entered.
(3) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction that utilizes APHIS representatives or HPIs to inspect horses shall have at least one farrier physically present if more than 100 horses are entered in the event. If 100 or fewer horses are entered in the horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction, the management shall, at minimum, have a farrier be on call within the local area. Management must ensure that the farrier appear promptly at the horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction if requested by an APHIS representative or HPI appointed by management.
(4) After an APHIS representative or HPI appointed by management has completed inspection, management must prevent tampering with any part of a horse's limbs or hooves in such a way that could cause a horse to be sore.
(5) If management is dissatisfied with the performance of a particular HPI, management should promptly notify, in writing, the Administrator as to why management believes the performance of the HPI was inadequate or otherwise unsatisfactory.
(6) Management that utilizes an APHIS representative or HPI shall immediately disqualify or prohibit from showing, exhibition, sale, offering for sale, or auction of any horse identified by the APHIS representative or HPI to be sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations and any horse otherwise known by management to be sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations. Should management fail to disqualify or prohibit from being shown, exhibited, sold or auctioned any such horse, the management is responsible for any liabilities arising from the showing, exhibition, sale, or auction of said horses.
(c)
Other responsibilities of management at horse shows, horse exhibitions, horse sales, and horse auctions.
(1) Ensure that no devices or substances prohibited under § 11.6 are present in the warm-up area.
(2) Review the orders of the Secretary disqualifying persons from showing or exhibiting any horse, or judging or managing any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction and disallow the participation of any such person in any horse show, exhibition, sale, or auction, for the duration of the period of disqualification.
(3) Verify the identity of all horses entered in the horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction. Acceptable methods of identification are as follows:
(i) A description sufficient to identify the horse, including, but not limited to, name, age, breed, color, gender, distinctive markings, and unique and permanent forms of identification when present (
e.g.,
brands, tattoos, cowlicks, or blemishes); or
(ii) Electronic identification that complies with ISO standards; or
(iii) An equine passport issued by a State government and accepted in the government of the State in which the horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction will occur.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0056 and 0579-0490)
§ 11.14
Records required and disposition thereof.
(a) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction that contains Tennessee Walking Horses or racking horses shall maintain for a minimum of 90 days following the closing date of
a horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction all records containing:
(1) The dates and place of the horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction.
(2) The name and address (including street address or post office box number, and ZIP Code) of the sponsoring organization.
(3) The name and address of the horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction management.
(4) The name and address (including street address or post office box number, and ZIP Code) of each show judge.
(5) A copy of each class or sale sheet containing the names of horses, the registration number of the horse (if applicable), the names and addresses (including street address or post office box number, and ZIP Code) of the horse owner, the exhibition number and class number unique to each horse, or sale number assigned to each horse, the show class or sale lot number, and the name and address (including street address or post office box number, and ZIP Code) of the person paying the entry fee and entering the horse in a horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction.
(6) A copy of the official horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction program, if any such program has been prepared.
(7) A copy of the official judge's or scoring card(s) for each horse show class containing Tennessee Walking Horses and racking horses to include the place each horse finished in the class.
(8) The name and any applicable registration name and number of each horse, as well as the names and addresses (including street address or post office box number, and ZIP Code) of the owner, the trainer, the custodian, the exhibitor and the location (including street address and ZIP Code) of the home barn or other facility where the horse is stabled.
(9) The name, exhibition number and class number, or assigned sale number, and the registration name and number (if applicable) for each horse disqualified or prohibited by management from being shown, exhibited, sold or auctioned, and the reasons for such action.
(10) Name and address (including street address or post office box number, and ZIP Code) of the person designated by the management to maintain the records required by this section.
(11) The name and address of each HPI appointed by management to conduct inspections at the event, if an HPI was appointed.
(b) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction that allows any horse to be shown, exhibited or sold with wedges, pads, substances, or toe extensions restricted under § 11.6 for therapeutic treatment must maintain the following information for each horse receiving the therapeutic treatment for a period of at least 90 days following the closing date of a horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction:
(1) The name, exhibition number and class number, or assigned sale number, and the registration name and number (if applicable) for each horse receiving therapeutic treatment.
(2) The name, address (including street address and ZIP Code), and phone number of the licensed veterinarian providing the therapeutic treatment.
(3) The State and license number of the licensed veterinarian providing the therapeutic treatment.
(4) The name and address (including street address and ZIP Code) and phone number of the licensed veterinarian's business.
(5) A description of the disease, injury, or disorder for which the treatment is given, to include at minimum:
(i) Start date of treatment.
(ii) Prescription or specific design and prescription (for example, as to the height, weight, and material of a therapeutic pad) of the treatment plan.
(iii) Expected length of treatment period and an estimation of when treatment will be discontinued.
(c) The Administrator may, in specific cases, require that a horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction records be maintained by management for a period in excess of 90 days.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0056 and 0579-0490)
§ 11.15
Inspection of records.
The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction shall permit any APHIS representative or HPI appointed by management, upon request, to examine and make copies of any and all records pertaining to any horse that are required in the regulations or otherwise maintained, during business hours, or such other times as may be mutually agreed upon. A room, table, or other facilities necessary for proper examination and copying of such records shall be made available to the APHIS representative or HPI appointed by management.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0056)
§ 11.16
Reporting by management.
(a) At least 30 days before any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction is scheduled to begin, management must notify the Administrator of such event by mail or electronic means such as email. Such notification must include:
(1) The name and address (including street address and ZIP Code) of the horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction.
(2) The name, address, phone number (and email address, if available) of the event manager.
(3) The date(s) of the horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction.
(4) A copy of the official horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction program, if any such program has been prepared.
(5) Anticipated or known number of entries.
(6) Whether management requests an APHIS representative to perform inspections at the horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction; or, if not, whether management has chosen and appointed an HPI to inspect horses, or will have no inspector.
(7) Whether management will allow any horse to be shown, exhibited, or sold with prohibitions under § 11.6 for therapeutic treatment.
(b) At least 15 days before any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction is scheduled to begin, the management of any such horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction must notify the Administrator of any changes to the information required under § 11.16(a) by mail or electronic means such as email.
(c) Within 5 days following the conclusion of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction that contains Tennessee Walking Horses or racking horses, the management of such show, exhibition, sale or auction shall submit to the Administrator the information required to be maintained by § 11.14 by mail or electronic means such as email. Event information already submitted to APHIS under paragraph (a) of this section does not need to be sent again.
(d) Within 5 days following the conclusion of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction which does not include Tennessee Walking Horses or racking horses, the management of such show, exhibition, sale or auction shall submit to the Administrator the following information: Any case where a horse was prohibited by management from being shown, exhibited, sold or auctioned because it was found to be sore or otherwise in violation of the Act or regulations. Information will include at a minimum the name, exhibition number and class number, or assigned sale number, and the registration name and number (if applicable) for each horse disqualified or prohibited by management from being shown, exhibited, sold or auctioned, and the reason(s) for such action.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0056 and 0579-0490)
§ 11.17
Requirements concerning persons involved in transportation of certain horses.
Each person who ships, transports, or otherwise moves, or delivers or receives for movement, any horse with reason to believe such horse may be shown, exhibited, sold or auctioned at any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction, shall allow and assist in the inspection of such horse at any such horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction to determine compliance with the Act and regulations and shall furnish to any APHIS representative or HPI appointed by management upon their request the following information:
(a) Name and address (including street address or post office box number, and ZIP Code) of the horse owner and of the shipper, if different from the owner or trainer;
(b) Name and address (including street address or post office box number, and ZIP Code) of the horse trainer;
(c) Name and address (including street address or post office box number, and ZIP Code) of the carrier transporting the horse, and of the driver of the means of conveyance used;
(d) Origin of the shipment and date thereof; and
(e) Destination of shipment.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0056)
§ 11.18
Utilization of inspectors.
(a) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction may elect to utilize an APHIS representative or HPI to detect and diagnose horses which are sore or to otherwise inspect horses for compliance with the Act or regulations.
(b) If management elects to utilize an HPI to detect and diagnose horses which are sore or to otherwise inspect horses for compliance with the Act or regulations, the HPI must currently be authorized by APHIS pursuant to § 11.19 to perform this function.
(c) The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction shall not utilize any person to detect and diagnose horses which are sore or to otherwise inspect horses for the purpose of determining compliance with the Act and regulations, if that person has not been authorized by APHIS or if that person has been disqualified by the Secretary, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, in accordance with section 4 (15 U.S.C. 1823) of the Act, to make such detection, diagnosis, or inspection.
(d) After February 1, 2025, only APHIS representatives and HPIs as defined in § 11.1 shall be utilized by management to detect
and diagnose horses which are sore or otherwise inspect horses for compliance with the Act or regulations. Any other persons seeking to continue inspecting or to become inspectors after February 1, 2025, must apply to APHIS and meet eligibility qualifications for authorization included in § 11.19.
§ 11.19
Authorization and training of Horse Protection Inspectors.
APHIS will authorize HPIs after the successful completion of training by APHIS. The management of any horse show, horse exhibition, horse sale, or horse auction may appoint HPIs holding a current authorization to detect and diagnose horses that are sore or to otherwise inspect horses and any records pertaining to such horses for the purposes of determining compliance with the Act and regulations.
(a)
Authorization process.
All persons wishing to become HPIs must submit an application to APHIS. Guidance regarding submitting applications is located on the APHIS Horse Protection website. Applicants will be required to show that they meet the Tier 1 qualifications in paragraph (a)(1) of this section in order for the application to be evaluated. If the applicant meets the qualifications in paragraph (a)(1) of the section, the applicant will be further evaluated based on the Tier 2 qualifications in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. In order for APHIS to consider the applicant as a candidate to be an HPI, all qualifications must be met.
(1)
Tier 1 qualifications.
The applicant must be a veterinarian, except that veterinary technicians and persons employed by State and local government agencies to enforce laws or regulations pertaining to animal welfare may also be authorized if APHIS determines that there is an insufficient pool of veterinarians among current HPIs and applicants to be HPIs.
(2)
Tier 2 qualifications.
(i) The applicant must demonstrate sufficient knowledge and experience of equine husbandry and science and applicable principles of equine science, welfare, care, and health for APHIS to determine that the applicant can consistently identify equine soring and soring practices.
(ii) The applicant must not have been found to have violated any provision of the Act or the regulations in this part occurring after July 13, 1976, or have been assessed any civil penalty, or have been the subject of a disqualification order in any proceeding involving an alleged violation of the Act or regulations occurring after July 13, 1976.
(iii) The applicant must not have been disqualified by the Secretary from performing diagnosis, detection, and inspection under the Act.
(iv) The applicant must not have acted in a manner that calls into question the applicant's honesty, professional integrity, reputation, practices, and reliability relative to possible authorization as an HPI. APHIS will base this on a review of:
(A) Criminal conviction records, if any, indicating that the applicant may lack the honesty, integrity, and reliability to appropriately and effectively perform HPI duties.
(B) Official records of the person's actions while participating in Federal, State, or local veterinary programs when those actions reflect on the honesty, reputation, integrity, and reliability of the applicant.
(C) Judicial determinations in any type of litigation adversely reflecting on the honesty, reputation, integrity, and reliability of the applicant.
(D) Any other evidence reflecting on the honesty, reputation, integrity, and reliability of the applicant.
(b)
Training.
All applicants selected as candidates must complete a formal training program administered by APHIS prior to authorization. Continual training as APHIS determines to be necessary is a condition of maintaining authorization to inspect horses.
(c)
Listing.
APHIS will maintain a list of all HPIs on the APHIS Horse Protection website. The list is also available by contacting APHIS by email or U.S. mail.

# Note 1 to Paragraph (
c

# ):
Send email to
horseprotection@usda.gov,
or U.S. mail to USDA/APHIS/AC, 2150 Centre Ave., Building B, Mailstop 3W11, Fort Collins, CO 80526-8117.
(d)
Denial of an HPI application and disqualification of HPIs
—(1)
Denial.
APHIS may deny an application for authorization of an HPI, or deny continuation in the program to an HPI trainee not yet authorized, for any of the reasons outlined in paragraph (a) of this section. In such instances, the applicant shall be provided written notification of the grounds for the denial. The applicant may appeal the decision, in writing, within 30 days after receiving the written denial notice. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons that the person wants the Administrator to consider in deciding the appeal. As soon as practicable, the Administrator will grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for the decision.
(2)
Disqualification.
APHIS may permanently disqualify any HPI who fails to inspect horses in accordance with the procedures prescribed by APHIS or otherwise fails to perform duties necessary for APHIS to enforce the Act and regulations, after notice and opportunity for a hearing. Requests for hearings and the hearings themselves shall be in accordance with the Uniform Rules of Practice for the Department of Agriculture in subpart H of 7 CFR part 1.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0490)
Pt. 12

# PART 12—RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING PROCEEDINGS UNDER THE HORSE PROTECTION ACT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
12.1
Scope and applicability of rules of practice.

# Subpart B—Supplemental Rules of Practice
12.10
Stipulations.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 1825 and 1828; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.7.

# Subpart A—General
§ 12.1
Scope and applicability of rules of practice.
The Uniform Rules of Practice for the Department of Agriculture promulgated in subpart H of part 1, subtitle A, title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, are the Rules of Practice applicable to adjudicatory, administrative proceedings under section 6(a) of the Horse Protection Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 1825(a)) and sections 6 (b) and (c) of the Horse Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1825 (b) and (c)). In addition, the Supplemental Rules of Practice set forth in subpart B of this part shall be applicable to such proceedings.
[42 FR 10959, Feb. 25, 1977, as amended at 68 FR 6342, Feb. 7, 2003]

# Subpart B—Supplemental Rules of Practice
§ 12.10
Stipulations.
(a) At any time prior to the issuance of a complaint seeking a civil penalty under the Act, the Administrator, in his discretion, may enter into a stipulation with any person in which:
(1) The Administration gives notice of an apparent violation of the Act or the regulations issued thereunder by such person and affords such person an opportunity for a hearing regarding the matter as provided by the Act;
(2) Such person expressly waives hearing and agrees to a specified order including an agreement to pay a specified civil penalty within a designated time; and
(3) The Administrator agrees to accept the specified order including a civil penalty in settlement of the particular matter involved if it is paid within the designated time.
(b) If the specified penalty is not paid within the time designated in such a stipulation, the amount of the stipulated penalty shall not be relevant in any respect to the penalty which may be assessed after issuance of a complaint.
[42 FR 10960, Feb. 25, 1977, as amended at 68 FR 6342, Feb. 7, 2003]

# SUBCHAPTER B—COOPERATIVE CONTROL AND ERADICATION OF LIVESTOCK OR POULTRY DISEASES
Pt. 49

# PART 49—RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING PROCEEDINGS UNDER CERTAIN ACTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
49.1
Scope and applicability of rules of practice.

# Subpart B—Supplemental Rules of Practice
49.10
Stipulations.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8301-8317; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.4.

# Source:
48 FR 30094, June 30, 1983, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 49.1
Scope and applicability of rules of practice.
The Uniform Rules of Practice for the Department of Agriculture promulgated in subpart H of part 1, subtitle A, title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, are the Rules of Practice applicable to adjudicatory, administrative proceedings under the following statutory provisions:
Act of May 29, 1884, commonly known as the Animal Industry Act, section 7, as amended (21 U.S.C. 117),
Act of February 2, 1903, commonly known as the Cattle Contagious Diseases Act of 1903, section 3, as amended (21 U.S.C. 122),
Act of March 3, 1905, Section 6, as amended (21 U.S.C. 127),
Act of July 2, 1962, section 6(a), as amended (21 U.S.C. 134e).
The Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8301
et seq.
)
In addition, the Supplemental Rules of Practice set forth in subpart B of this part shall be applicable to such proceedings.
[48 FR 30094, June 30, 1983, as amended at 68 FR 6342, Feb. 7, 2003]

# Subpart B—Supplemental Rules of Practice
§ 49.10
Stipulations.
(a) At any time prior to the issuance of a complaint seeking a civil penalty under any of the Acts listed in § 49.1, the Administrator, in his discretion, may enter into a stipulation with any person in which:
(1) The Administrator or the Administrator's delegate gives notice of an apparent violation of the applicable Act, or the regulations issued thereunder, by such person and affords such person an opportunity for a hearing regarding the matter as provided by such Act;
(2) Such person expressly waives hearing and agrees to pay a specified penalty within a designated time; and
(3) The Administrator agrees to accept the penalty in settlement of the particular matter involved if the penalty is paid within the designated time.
(b) If the penalty is not paid within the time designated in such a stipulation, the amount of the stipulated penalty shall not be relevant in any respect to the penalty which may be assessed after issuance of a complaint.
Pt. 50

# PART 50—ANIMALS DESTROYED BECAUSE OF TUBERCULOSIS
Sec.
50.1
Definitions.

# Subpart A—General Indemnity
50.2
Applicability of this subpart; cooperation with States.
50.3
Payment to owners for animals destroyed.
50.4
Classification of cattle, bison, captive cervids, and other livestock as infected, exposed, or suspect.
50.5
Record of tests.
50.6
Identification of animals to be destroyed because of tuberculosis.
50.7
Destruction of animals.
50.8
Payment of expenses for transporting and disposing of infected, exposed, and suspect animals.
50.9
Appraisals.
50.10
Report of appraisals.
50.11
Report of salvage proceeds.
50.12
Claims for indemnity.
50.13
Disinfection of premises, conveyances, and materials.
50.14
Claims not allowed.
50.15-50.16
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Dairy Cattle and Facilities in the El Paso, Texas, Region
50.17
Payment.
50.18
Identification and disposal of cattle.
50.19
Report of salvage proceeds.
50.20
Claims for payment.
50.21
Schedule of payments.
50.22
Claims not allowed.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8301-8317; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.4.

# Source:
40 FR 27009, June 26, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 50.1
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, the following terms mean:
Accredited veterinarian.
A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of part 161 of this title to perform functions specified in parts 1, 2, 3, and 11 of subchapter A, and subchapters B, C, and D of this chapter, and to perform functions required by cooperative State-Federal disease control and eradication programs.
Administrator.
The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (APHIS).
APHIS representative.
A veterinarian or other person employed by APHIS in animal health activities, who is authorized to perform the function involved.
Approved herd plan.
A herd management and testing plan based on the disease history and movement patterns of an individual herd, designed by the herd owner and a State representative or APHIS representative to determine the disease status of livestock in the herd and to eradicate tuberculosis within the herd. The plan must be jointly approved by the State animal health official and the Veterinarian in Charge.
Captive cervid.
All species of deer, elk, moose, and all other members of the family Cervidae raised or maintained in captivity for the production of meat and other agricultural products, for sport, or for exhibition, including time such animals are moved interstate; or any wild cervid that is moved interstate, during the period of time from capture until release into the wild. A captive cervid that escapes will continue to be considered a captive cervid as long as it bears an official eartag or other identification approved by the Administrator as unique and traceable with which to trace the animal back to its herd of origin.
Department.
The United States Department of Agriculture.
Designated tuberculosis epidemiologist (DTE).
A State or Federal epidemiologist designated by the Administrator to make decisions concerning the use and interpretation of diagnostic tests for tuberculosis and the management of tuberculosis affected herds. A DTE has the responsibility to determine the scope of epidemiologic investigations, determine the status of animals and herds, assist in the development of individual herd plans, and coordinate disease surveillance and eradication programs within the geographic area of the DTE's responsibility.
Destroyed.
Condemned under State authority and destroyed by slaughter or by death otherwise.
Heifer.
A female dairy cow that has not given birth.
Herd.
Except for livestock assembled at feedlots, any group of livestock maintained for at least 4 months on common ground for any purpose, or two or more groups of livestock under common ownership or supervision, geographically separated but that have an interchange or movement of livestock without regard to health status, as determined by the Administrator.
Herd depopulation.
Removal by slaughter or other means of destruction of all cattle, bison, and captive cervids in a herd, as well as any other exposed livestock in the herd, prior to restocking with new livestock.
Livestock.
Cattle, bison, captive cervids, swine, dairy goats, and other hoofed animals (such as llamas, alpacas, and antelope) raised or maintained in captivity for the production
of meat and other products, for sport, or for exhibition.
Milking cow.
A female dairy cow that has given birth and is being used for milk production.
Mortgage.
Any mortgage, lien or other security or interest that is recorded under State law or identified in the indemnity claim form filed under § 50.12 and held by any person other than the one claiming indemnity.
Net salvage.
The amount received for animals destroyed because of tuberculosis, after deducting freight, trucking, yardage, commission, slaughtering charges, and similar costs to the owner.
Owner.
Any person who has a legal or rightful title to livestock whether or not they are subject to a mortgage.
Permit.
A permit for movement of livestock directly to slaughter, listing the disease status and identification of the animal, where consigned, cleaning and disinfection requirements, and proof of slaughter certification.
Person.
Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, or joint stock company, or any organized group of any of the foregoing.
Quarantined feedlot.
A confined area under the direct supervision and control of a State livestock official who shall establish procedures for the accounting of all livestock entering or leaving the area. The quarantined feedlot shall be maintained for finish feeding of livestock in drylot with no provision for pasturing and grazing. All livestock leaving such feedlot must only move directly to slaughter in accordance with established procedures for handling quarantined livestock.
Reactor cattle, bison, and captive cervids.
Cattle, bison, and captive cervids are classified as reactors for tuberculosis in accordance with the “Uniform Methods and Rules Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication,” based on a positive response to an official tuberculin test.
Registered livestock.
Livestock for which individual records of ancestry are maintained, and for which individual registration certificates are issued and recorded by a recognized breed association whose purpose is the improvement of the breed.
State.
Any State, territory, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.
State animal health official.
The individual employed by a State who is responsible for livestock and poultry disease control and eradication programs in that State.
State representative.
A veterinarian or other person who is employed in livestock sanitary work of a State or a political subdivision of a State and who is authorized by the State or political subdivision to perform the function involved under a memorandum of understanding with the Department.
Tuberculosis.
The contagious, infectious, and communicable disease caused by
Mycobacterium bovis.
Veterinarian in Charge.
The veterinary official of APHIS who is assigned by the Administrator to supervise and perform official animal health work of APHIS in the State concerned.
[40 FR 27009, June 26, 1975, as amended at 45 FR 32287, May 16, 1980; 51 FR 33735, Sept. 23, 1986; 52 FR 1317, Jan. 13, 1987; 52 FR 39614, Oct. 23, 1987; 56 FR 36998, Aug. 2, 1991; 58 FR 34698, June 29, 1993; 60 FR 37808, July 24, 1995; 63 FR 34263, June 24, 1998; 63 FR 72122, Dec. 31, 1998; 67 FR 7590, Feb. 20, 2002; 67 FR 48750, July 26, 2002]

# Subpart A—General Indemnity
§ 50.2
Applicability of this subpart; cooperation with States.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to all payments made by the Department for the destruction of animals because of tuberculosis, except as specifically provided in subpart B of this part.
(b) The Administrator cooperates with the proper State authorities in the eradication of tuberculosis and pays Federal indemnities for the destruction of cattle, bison, captive cervids, or swine affected with or exposed to tuberculosis.
[67 FR 48751, July 26, 2002]
§ 50.3
Payment to owners for animals destroyed.
(a) The Administrator is authorized to agree on the part of the Department to pay indemnity to owners of the following animals:
(1) Cattle, bison, or captive cervids destroyed because the animals are infected with or exposed to tuberculosis;
(2) Cattle, bison, or captive cervids that have been classified as suspect for tuberculosis, except that the payment of indemnity for the destruction of suspect cattle, bison, and captive cervids will be withheld until the tuberculosis status of the suspect animal has been determined and, if the cattle, bison, or captive cervid is found to be infected with tuberculosis, until all cattle, bison, and captive cervids 12 months of age or older in the claimant's herd have been tested for tuberculosis under APHIS or State supervision; and
(3) Other livestock destroyed because they are classified as exposed to tuberculosis by the designated tuberculosis epidemiologist by reason of an association with an affected herd of cattle, bison, or captive cervids.
(b) In each case, the joint State-Federal indemnity paid, together with the amount for net salvage the owner receives, may not exceed the appraised value of the animal, as determined in accordance with § 50.9. Additionally, the Department will in no case pay more than $3,000 for an animal that is destroyed.
[67 FR 7591, Feb. 20, 2002]
§ 50.4
Classification of cattle, bison, captive cervids, and other livestock as infected, exposed, or suspect.
(a) Cattle, bison, and captive cervids are classified as infected with tuberculosis on the basis of an intradermal tuberculin test applied by a Federal, State, or an accredited veterinarian or by other diagnostic procedure approved in advance by the Administrator.
(b) Cattle, bison, and captive cervids are classified as exposed to tuberculosis when such cattle, bison, and captive cervids (1) are part of a known infected herd, or (2) are found to have moved from an infected herd before the time infection was disclosed in such herd and after the time such herd had apparently become infected, or (3) are found to have been exposed by virtue of nursing a reactor dam:
Provided,
That cattle, bison, and captive cervids classified as exposed to tuberculosis shall be removed direct to slaughter.
(c) Cattle and bison are classified as suspects for tuberculosis based on a positive response to an official tuberculin test, in accordance with the “Uniform Methods and Rules—Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication” (incorporated into the regulations by reference in part 77). Captive cervids are classified as suspects for tuberculosis in the same manner as cattle and bison.
(d) The designated tuberculosis epidemiologist will determine whether livestock other than cattle, bison, or captive cervids are classified as exposed to tuberculosis by reason of association with an affected herd of cattle, bison, or captive cervids.
[40 FR 27009, June 26, 1975, as amended at 52 FR 39614, Oct. 23, 1987; 56 FR 36998, Aug. 2, 1991; 60 FR 37809, July 24, 1995; 63 FR 34264, June 24, 1998; 67 FR 7591, Feb. 20, 2002]
§ 50.5
Record of tests.
When any cattle, bison, or captive cervid in a herd is classified by an APHIS or State representative or accredited veterinarian as a reactor to a test for tuberculosis, a complete test record shall be made for such herd, including the reactor tag number of each reacting animal and the registration name and number of each reacting registered animal. VS Form 6-22 or an equivalent State form shall be used for the record of any herd having any reactor to a tuberculin test. A copy of the applicable test record shall be given to the owner of any such herd, and one copy of each such record shall be furnished to the appropriate State veterinarian's office.
[40 FR 27009, June 26, 1975, as amended at 52 FR 39614, Oct. 23, 1987; 56 FR 36998, Aug. 2, 1991; 60 FR 37809, July 24, 1995; 63 FR 34264, June 24, 1998]
§ 50.6
Identification of animals to be destroyed because of tuberculosis.
(a) Livestock to be destroyed because of tuberculosis must be identified as follows:
(1) Livestock classified as reactors for tuberculosis must be identified within 15 days after being classified as reactors, except that the veterinarian in charge may extend the time limit for identification to 30 days when he or
she receives a request for such an extension prior to the expiration date of the original 15-day period allowed and circumstances beyond the control of the owner warrant such an extension, and the Administrator may extend the time limit for identification beyond 30 days upon request in specific cases when circumstances beyond the control of the owner warrant such an extension.
(2) Livestock other than reactors for tuberculosis that are to be destroyed because of tuberculosis must be identified prior to movement from the premises of origin to the place of destruction.
(b)
Reactor cattle, bison, and captive cervids.
Reactor cattle, bison, and captive cervids must be identified by branding the letter “T,” at least 5 by 5 centimeters (2 by 2 inches) in size, high on the left hip near the tailhead and by attaching to the left ear an approved metal eartag bearing a serial number and the inscription “U.S. Reactor,” or a similar State reactor tag. Reactor cattle, bison, and captive cervids may be moved interstate to slaughter without branding if they are permanently identified by the letters “TB” tattooed legibly in the left ear, they are sprayed on the left ear with yellow paint, and they are either accompanied by an APHIS or State representative or moved directly to slaughter in vehicles closed with official seals. The official seals must be applied and removed by an APHIS representative, State representative, accredited veterinarian, or an individual authorized for this purpose by an APHIS representative.
(c)
Exposed cattle, bison, and captive cervids.
Exposed cattle, bison, and captive cervids must be identified by branding the letter “S,” at least 5 by 5 centimeters (2 by 2 inches) in size, high on the left hip near the tailhead and by attaching to either ear an approved metal eartag bearing a serial number. Exposed cattle, bison, and captive cervids may be moved interstate to slaughter without branding if they are either accompanied by an APHIS or State representative or moved directly to slaughter in vehicles closed with official seals. The official seals must be applied and removed by an APHIS representative, State representative, accredited veterinarian, or an individual authorized for this purpose by an APHIS representative.
(d)
Other exposed livestock.
Livestock other than cattle, bison, or captive cervids that are destroyed under the provisions of § 50.3 must be identified by tagging with a serially numbered metal eartag attached to either ear. All such animals to be destroyed must be transported to the place of destruction in vehicles closed with seals provided by APHIS or shall be accompanied to the place of destruction by an APHIS or State representative:
Provided, however,
that animals destroyed and disposed of under the direct supervision of an APHIS or State representative on the premises where they were exposed do not require individual identification.
[67 FR 7591, Feb. 20, 2002]
§ 50.7
Destruction of animals.
(a)
Slaughter or disposal.
Livestock to be destroyed because of tuberculosis must be shipped direct to slaughter under permit to a Federal or State inspected slaughtering establishment or be disposed of by rendering, burial, or incinerating in an approved manner under supervision of an APHIS or State employee.
(b)
Time limit for destruction of animals.
Livestock for which Federal indemnity may be paid because of tuberculosis must be destroyed and carcass disposal completed within 15 days after the date of appraisal, except that the appropriate Veterinarian in Charge, for reasons satisfactory to him, may extend the time limit for slaughter to 30 days when request for such extension is received by him prior to the expiration of the original 15-day period allowed, and the Administrator may extend the time limit for slaughter beyond 30 days, upon request in specific cases and for reasons satisfactory to him.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0051)
[40 FR 27009, June 26, 1975, as amended at 45 FR 32287, May 16, 1980; 52 FR 39614, Oct. 23, 1987; 56 FR 36998, Aug. 2, 1991; 60 FR 37809, July 24, 1995; 63 FR 34264, June 24, 1998; 67 FR 7591, Feb. 20, 2002]
§ 50.8
Payment of expenses for transporting and disposing of infected, exposed, and suspect animals.
The Department may pay, when approved in advance in writing by the Veterinarian in Charge, one half the expenses of transporting infected, exposed, or suspect livestock to slaughter or to the point where disposal will take place, and one half the expenses of destroying, burying, incinerating, rendering, or otherwise disposing of infected, exposed, or suspect livestock;
Provided that,
the Department may pay more than one-half of the expenses when the Administrator determines that doing so will contribute to the tuberculosis eradication program. For reimbursement to be made, the owner of the animals must present the Veterinarian in Charge with a copy of either a receipt for expenses paid or a bill for services rendered. Any bill for services rendered by the owner must not be greater than the normal fee for similar services provided by a commercial hauler or renderer.
[62 FR 49592, Sept. 23, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 34264, June 24, 1998; 67 FR 7591, Feb. 20, 2002]
§ 50.9
Appraisals.
(a) Livestock to be destroyed because of tuberculosis under § 50.3 must be appraised within 15 days after being classified as infected with tuberculosis, except that the veterinarian in charge may extend the time limit for appraisal to 30 days when he or she receives a request for such an extension before the end of the expiration date of the original 15-day period allowed and circumstances beyond the control of the owner warrant such an extension, and the Administrator may extend the time limit for appraisal beyond 30 days upon request in specific cases when circumstances beyond the control of the owner warrant such an extension.
(b) Animals for which indemnity is to be paid under this part must be appraised at their fair market value by an appraiser selected by APHIS. APHIS may decline to accept any appraisal that appears to it to be unreasonable or out of proportion to the value of like animals of a like quality. Should the appraisal made by the appraiser selected by APHIS be deemed inadequate by the owner of the animals, the owner will have 15 days from the receipt of the appraisal to submit to the Administrator a request for a review of the appraisal, along with the reasons why the animals should be appraised at a higher value. The decision by the Administrator regarding the value of the animals is final.
(c) When livestock to be destroyed because of tuberculosis are appraised, due consideration will be given to their breeding value as well as to their dairy or meat value. Livestock presented for payment as registered must be accompanied by their registration papers. If the registration papers are temporarily not available, or if the livestock are less than 3 years old and unregistered, the veterinarian in charge may grant a reasonable time for the presentation of their registration papers.
[67 FR 7591, Feb. 20, 2002]
§ 50.10
Report of appraisals.
Appraisals of livestock made in accordance with § 50.9 shall be recorded on forms furnished by APHIS. The appraisal form shall be signed by the appraiser and by the owner certifying his acceptance of the appraisal. The “date of appraisal” shall be the date that the owner signs the appraisal form. The original of the appraisal form and as many copies thereof as may be required for APHIS, the State, and the owner of the animals shall be sent to the appropriate Veterinarian in Charge.
[40 FR 27009, June 26, 1975, as amended at 52 FR 39614, Oct. 23, 1987; 56 FR 36998, Aug. 2, 1991; 60 FR 37809, July 24, 1995; 63 FR 34264, June 24, 1998; 67 FR 7592, Feb. 20, 2002]
§ 50.11
Report of salvage proceeds.
A report of the salvage derived from the sale of each animal on which a claim for indemnity may be made under the provisions of § 50.3 shall be made on a salvage form acceptable to APHIS which shall be signed by the purchaser or his agent or by the selling agent handling the animals. If the livestock are sold by the pound, the salvage form shall show the weight, price per pound, gross receipts, expenses if any, and net proceeds. If the livestock are not sold on a per pound basis, the net purchase price of each animal must
be stated on the salvage form and an explanation showing how the amount was arrived at must be submitted. In the event the animals are not disposed of through regular slaughterers or through selling agents, the owner shall furnish, in lieu of the salvage form, an affidavit showing the amount of salvage obtained by him and shall certify that such amount is all that he has received or will receive as salvage for said animals. In an emergency, a certificate executed by the appropriate Veterinarian in Charge will be acceptable in lieu of the owner's affidavit. The salvage shall be considered to be the net amount received for an animal after deducting freight, truckage, yardage, commission, slaughtering charges, and similar costs. The original of the salvage form or the affidavit of the owner or certificate of the appropriate Veterinarian in Charge, furnished in lieu thereof, shall be furnished to the Veterinarian in charge if it is not already in his possession. Additional copies may be furnished to the State officials, if required. Destruction of livestock by burial, incineration or other disposal of carcasses shall be supervised by an APHIS or State representative who shall prepare and transmit to the Veterinarian in Charge a report identifying the animals and showing the disposition thereof.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0001)
[40 FR 27009, June 26, 1975, as amended at 48 FR 57471, Dec. 30, 1983; 52 FR 39614, Oct. 23, 1987; 56 FR 36998, Aug. 2, 1991; 60 FR 37809, July 24, 1995; 63 FR 34264, June 24, 1998; 67 FR 7592, Feb. 20, 2002]
§ 50.12
Claims for indemnity.
Claims for Federal indemnity for livestock destroyed because of tuberculosis shall be presented on indemnity claim forms furnished by APHIS on which the owner of the animals covered thereby shall certify that the animals are or are not, subject to any mortgage as defined in this Part. If the owner states there is a mortgage, the APHIS indemnity claim form shall be signed by the owner and by each person holding a mortgage on the animals consenting to the payment of any indemnity allowed to the person specified thereon. Payment will be made only if the APHIS indemnity claim form has been approved by a proper State official and if payment of the claim has been recommended by the appropriate Veterinarian in Charge or an official designated by him. On claims for indemnity made under the provisions of § 50.3, the Veterinarian in Charge or official designated by him shall record on the APHIS indemnity claim form the amount of Federal and State indemnity payments that appear to be due to the owner of the animals. The owner of the animals shall be furnished a copy of the APHIS indemnity claim form. The Veterinarian in Charge or official designated by him shall then forward the APHIS indemnity claim form to the appropriate official for further action on the claim. No charges for holding the livestock on the farm pending slaughter or for trucking by the owner shall be so deducted or otherwise paid by the Department.
[40 FR 27009, June 26, 1975, as amended at 52 FR 39614, Oct. 23, 1987; 56 FR 36998, Aug. 2, 1991; 60 FR 37809, July 24, 1995; 63 FR 34264, June 24, 1998; 67 FR 7592, Feb. 20, 2002]
§ 50.13
Disinfection of premises, conveyances, and materials.
All premises, including all structures, holding facilities, conveyances, or materials which are determined by the appropriate Veterinarian in Charge to constitute a health hazard to humans or animals because of tuberculosis shall be properly cleaned and disinfected, in accordance with procedures approved by the Department, within 15 days after the removal of tuberculosis infected or exposed livestock except that the Veterinarian in Charge, for reasons satisfactory to him, may extend the time limit for disinfection to 30 days when request for such extension is received by him prior to the expiration date of the original 15-day period allowed.
[40 FR 27009, June 26, 1975, as amended at 52 FR 39614, Oct. 23, 1987; 60 FR 37809, July 24, 1995; 67 FR 7592, Feb. 20, 2002]
§ 50.14
Claims not allowed.
Claims for compensation for livestock destroyed because of tuberculosis will not be allowed in any of the following cases:
(a) The claimant has failed to comply with any of the requirements of this part:
(b) All cattle, bison, and captive cervids 12 months of age or over in the claimant's herd have not been tested for tuberculosis under APHIS or State supervision:
Provided, however,
that cattle, bison, and captive cervids destroyed because of tuberculosis are exempt from this testing requirement if the cattle, bison, and captive cervids are subjected to a postmortem examination for tuberculosis by a Federal or State veterinarian.
(c) There is substantial evidence that the owner of the animals or the agent of the owner has in any way been responsible for any attempt to obtain indemnity funds for the animals unlawfully or improperly.
(d) At the time the cattle, bison, or captive cervids in the claimant's herd were tested for tuberculosis, the cattle, bison, captive cervids, or other livestock in the herd belonged to or were on the premises of any person to whom they had been sold, shipped, or delivered for slaughter unless or until all of the cattle, bison, captive cervids, and other livestock remaining on the premises or in the herd from which the tested cattle, bison, or captive cervids originated are tested or otherwise examined for tuberculosis in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator or his or her designated representative.
(e) If the cattle, bison, or captive cervids were added to a herd while the herd was quarantined for tuberculosis, unless an approved herd plan was in effect at the time the claim was filed. As part of the approved herd plan, cattle, bison, or captive cervids added to a herd quarantined for tuberculosis must:
(1) Be from an accredited herd, as defined in § 77.1 of this chapter; or
(2)(i) Be from a herd that tested negative to an official tuberculin test, as defined in § 77.1 of this chapter, during the 60 days before the cattle, bison, or captive cervids were added to the claimant's herd; and
(ii) Have been found negative to an official tuberculin test, as defined in § 77.1 of this chapter, during the 60 days before the cattle, bison, or captive cervids were added to the claimant's herd.
(f) For exposed cattle, bison, or captive cervids destroyed during herd depopulation, if a designated tuberculosis epidemiologist has determined that other livestock in the herd have been exposed to tuberculosis by reason of association with tuberculous livestock, and those other livestock determined to have been exposed to tuberculosis have not been destroyed.
(g) For livestock other than cattle, bison, and captive cervids that are destroyed because of association with herds of affected cattle, bison, or captive cervids:
(1) If the livestock did not reside among the herd for a period of 4 months or more;
(2) If the livestock have not received a postmortem examination for tuberculosis; or
(3) If the livestock were added to a herd that was under quarantine for tuberculosis at the time the livestock were added to the herd, unless an approved herd plan was in effect at that time.
[67 FR 7592, Feb. 20, 2002]
§§ 50.15-50.16
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Dairy Cattle and Facilities in the El Paso, Texas, Region

# Source:
67 FR 48751, July 26, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 50.17
Payment.
(a)
Eligibility for payment.
Owners of dairy operations, including owners of dairy cattle and other property used in connection with a dairy business or fluid milk processing plant, are eligible to receive payment from the Department under this subpart in connection with a buffer zone depopulation program due to tuberculosis, provided the owners meet all applicable requirements of this subpart and the dairy cattle herd is within the area circumscribed by the following boundaries: Beginning at the point where the Hudspeth-El Paso County line intersects U.S. Highway 62; then west along U.S. Highway 62 to the El Paso Toll
Bridge; then southeast along the Rio Grande River to the Fort Hancock-El Porvenir Bridge; then northeast along spur 148 to Interstate 10; then northwest along Interstate 10 to the Hudspeth-El Paso County line; then north along the Hudspeth-El Paso County line to the point of beginning.
(b) To be eligible for payment, each of the owners of dairy cattle and other property within the area described in paragraph (a) of this section must sign and adhere to an agreement with APHIS to do the following:
(1) Cease all dairy cattle operations within the described area and dispose of all sexually intact cattle on the dairy operation premises no later than 3 years after all eligible owners have signed their respective agreements;
(2) Conduct no dairy farming or other dairy activity, including the rearing of breeding cattle, but not including the grazing or feeding of steers and spayed heifers intended for terminal market, within the area described in paragraph (a) of this section until the described area and the adjoining area of Mexico have been declared free of bovine tuberculosis, as determined epidemiologically by APHIS, but in any event for a period of not less than 20 years after all eligible owners have signed their respective agreements.
(3) Allow a covenant to be placed on their properties where dairy operations have been conducted that will prevent the establishment of any breeding cattle operations (not including the grazing or feeding of steers and spayed heifers intended for terminal market) on the premises until the described area and the adjoining area of Mexico have been declared free of bovine tuberculosis, as determined epidemiologically by APHIS, but in any event for a period of not less than 20 years after all eligible owners have signed their respective agreements.
(4) Maintain responsibility for all cattle on the premises used in the dairy operation until those animals are removed from the premises;
(5) Make all arrangements for the removal of sexually intact cattle from the premises;
(6) Notify APHIS officials of the intended removal of all sexually intact cattle from the premises and provide APHIS officials with the opportunity to monitor and evaluate the removal operations; and
(7) Such other terms, provisions, and conditions as agreed by each owner and APHIS.
(c)
Amount of payment for cattle and other property.
Upon approval of a claim submitted in accordance with § 50.20 of this subpart, owners eligible for payments under paragraph (a) of this section will receive payments for cattle and other property, the amount of which is determined by the following rates:
(1) For milking cows, an amount not to exceed $2,922 per animal; and
(2) For heifers, an amount not to exceed $834 per animal.
(d) Any dairy cattle added to a premises after the date an owner has signed the agreement required under paragraph (b) of this section will not be included in the rate calculation in paragraph (c) of this section and must be disposed of within 3 years after all eligible owners have signed their respective agreements.
(e)
Amount of payment for certain other property.
In addition to the amounts paid under paragraph (c) of this section, amounts will be paid as follows:
(1) For expenses in relocating equipment of a reverse osmosis plant in El Paso County, TX, an amount equal to the costs of relocating the plant's equipment, not to exceed $675,000.
(2) In conjunction with the permanent closure of a fluid milk processing plant in El Paso County, TX, an amount not to exceed $950,000, with payment to be made in the same manner and at the same times, on a pro rata basis, as payments are made to such owners for their dairy cattle and other property.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0193)
[67 FR 48751, July 26, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 10361, Apr. 4, 2003]
§ 50.18
Identification and disposal of cattle.
(a) All dairy cattle disposed of under this subpart must travel from the premises of origin to their final destination with an approved metal eartag, supplied by APHIS or the State
representative, bearing a serial number and attached to each animal's left ear.
(b) Dairy cattle disposed of under this subpart must be shipped under permit either:
(1) Directly to slaughter at a Federal or State inspected slaughtering establishment; or
(2) Under permit directly to a livestock market and, under the supervision of an APHIS representative or State representative, through a livestock market pen that is dedicated to and marked exclusively for use for animals moved to slaughter, and then directly to slaughter at a Federal or State inspected slaughtering establishment.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0193)
§ 50.19
Report of salvage proceeds.
A report of the salvage derived from the sale of each animal for which a claim for payment is made under this subpart must be made on a salvage form acceptable to APHIS that must be signed by the purchaser or by the selling agent handling the animals. If the cattle are sold by the pound, the salvage form must show the weight, price per pound, gross receipts, expenses if any, and net proceeds. If the cattle are not sold on a per-pound basis, the net purchase price of each animal must be stated on the salvage form and an explanation showing how the amount was arrived at must be submitted. In the event the animals are not disposed of through regular slaughterers or through selling agents, the owner must furnish, in lieu of the salvage form, an affidavit showing the amount of salvage obtained by him or her and must certify that such amount is all he or she has received or will receive as salvage for the animals. The original of the salvage form or the affidavit of the owner must be furnished to the veterinarian in charge within 3 months of destruction of the animals, if such document is not already in his or her possession. Disposal of cattle by burial, incineration, or other means must be supervised by an APHIS or State representative, who will prepare and transmit to the veterinarian in charge a report identifying the animals and showing their disposition, or be documented by an affidavit of the owner that identifies the animals and describes their disposition. The owner must provide a copy of the affidavit to the veterinarian in charge within 3 months of destruction of the animals. The salvage form, disposal certificate, or affidavit will be for information purposes only and will have no effect on the amount of any payment due.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0193)
§ 50.20
Claims for payment.
Claims for payment, other than for reimbursement of relocation expenses of the reverse osmosis dairy plant, must be presented on payment claim forms furnished by APHIS.
3
On the claim form, the owner must certify that the animals or other property are, or are not, subject to any mortgage. If the owner states that there is a mortgage, the claim form must be signed by the owner and by each person holding a mortgage on the cattle or other property, who must agree that the person specified on the claim form may receive any payment due. The APHIS veterinarian in charge or the official designated by him or her will record on the claim form the amount of payment that appears to be due to the owner, and the owner will be furnished a copy of the APHIS payment claim form. The veterinarian in charge or official designated by him or her will then forward the APHIS payment claim form to the appropriate APHIS official for further action on the claim. The Department will not pay any costs arising from the holding of the cattle pending slaughter, or for trucking and other transportation costs, yardage, commission, slaughtering charges, or for any other costs related to having the cattle slaughtered. The owner of the reverse osmosis plant must submit copies of
the relevant documentation for relocation of equipment to the veterinarian in charge.
1 2
[Reserved]
3
Claim forms may obtained from the veterinarian in charge. The location of the veterinarian in charge may be obtained by writing to National Animal Health Program VS, APHIS, 4700 River Road Unit 43, Riverdale, MD 20737, or by referring to the local telephone book.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0193)
§ 50.21
Schedule of payments.
(a) The Department will make payment, other than for reimbursement of relocation expenses of the equipment of the reverse osmosis plant, at 90-day intervals. The first payment will be made no earlier than 30 days after all owners eligible for payment have signed their agreements required under § 50.17(b). The Department will determine the amount to be paid to each owner in each payment by multiplying the total agreement amount for that owner by a fraction that is arrived at by dividing the initial census number of dairy cattle for the respective owner into the number of dairy cattle that have been removed from the owner's herd during that payment period. From this amount, 10 percent will be withheld until all animals in the herd have been disposed of and the requirements of this subpart have been met. The payments to other property owners will be determined by multiplying the total agreement amount for that other property times the same ratio as for the herd related to that other property, minus 10 percent. The Department will make payment for reimbursement of relocation expenses of the reverse osmosis plant within 30 days after the relocation of the plant is completed and the owner of the plant has submitted to APHIS all documentation of the costs of the relocation.
(b) The Department will not make final payments until the premises used for dairy operations have been without sexually intact cattle for at least 30 days and until APHIS has inspected the premises and has found them to be free of manure, except for non-solid areas such as lagoons, and free of all feedstuffs that are not in barns, containers or feeders.
§ 50.22
Claims not allowed.
The Department will not allow claims for payment if the claimant has failed to comply with any of the requirements of this subpart, or there is substantial evidence, as determined by the Administrator, that the claimant has been responsible for any attempt to obtain payment funds for such cattle or other dairy property unlawfully or improperly.
Pt. 51

# PART 51—ANIMALS DESTROYED BECAUSE OF BRUCELLOSIS

# Subpart A—Indemnity for Cattle, Bison, and Swine
Sec.
51.1
Definitions.
51.2
Cooperation with States.
51.3
Payment to owners for animals destroyed.
51.4
Record of tests.
51.5
Identification of animals to be destroyed because of brucellosis.
51.6
Destruction of animals; time limit for destruction of animals.
51.7
Claims for indemnity.
51.8
Disinfection of premises, conveyances, and materials.
51.9
Claims not allowed.
51.10
Part 53 of this chapter not applicable.

# Subpart B—Indemnity for Sheep, Goats, and Horses
51.20
Definitions.
51.21
Cooperation with States.
51.22
Payment to owners for goats, sheep, and horses destroyed.
51.23
Eligibility for indemnity.
51.24
Maximum per-head indemnity amounts.
51.25
Proof of destruction.
51.26
Record of tests.
51.27
Identification of goats, sheep, and horses to be destroyed.
51.28
Moving goats, sheep, and horses to be destroyed.
51.29
Destruction of animals; time limit.
51.30
Claims for indemnity.
51.31
Disinfecting premises, conveyances, and materials.
51.32
Claims not allowed.
51.33
Multiple indemnity payments.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8301-8317; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.4.

# Subpart A—Indemnity for Cattle, Bison, and Swine
§ 51.1
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, the following terms shall be construed, respectively, to mean:
Accredited veterinarian.
A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of
part 161 of this title to perform functions specified in parts 1, 2, 3, and 11 of subchapter A, and subchapters B, C, and D of this chapter, and to perform functions required by cooperative state-federal disease control and eradication programs.
Administrator.
The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (APHIS or Service).
Animals.
Cattle, bison, and breeding swine.
APHIS representative.
An individual employed by APHIS who is authorized to perform the function involved.
Appraisal.
An estimate of the fair market value of an animal to be destroyed because of brucellosis. The estimate shall be based upon the meat, dairy, or breeding value of the animal.
Brucellosis exposed animal.
Except for a brucellosis reactor animal, any animal that: (1) Is part of or has been in contact with a herd known to be affected; or (2) has been in contact with a brucellosis reactor animal for a period of 24 hours or longer; or (3) has been in contact with a brucellosis reactor animal which has aborted, calved or farrowed within the past 30 days, or has a vaginal or uterine discharge.
Brucellosis reactor animal.
Any animal classified as a brucellosis reactor as provided in the definition of official test in § 78.1 of this chapter.
Claimant.
A person who files a claim for indemnity under § 51.7 for animals destroyed under this part.
Complete herd test.
An official test for brucellosis (as defined in 9 CFR 78.1) performed under APHIS supervision in a cattle or bison herd on all cattle or bison that are (1) 6 months of age or more and not official vaccinates, except steers and spayed heifers; or (2) Official calfhood vaccinates of any age that are parturient or postparturient; or (3) Official calfhood vaccinates of beef breeds or bison with the first pair of permanent incisors fully erupted (2 years of age or more); or (4) Official calfhood vaccinates of dairy breeds with partial eruption of the first pair of permanent incisors (20 months of age or more).
Condemn.
The determination made by an APHIS representative, State representative, or accredited veterinarian that animals for which indemnity is sought under this Part shall be destroyed.
Dairy cattle.
A female bovine of a recognized dairy breed over 20 months of age, which has calved or is within 90 days of parturition and which is a member of a dairy herd used to produce milk for commercial use.
Destroyed.
Condemned under State authority and slaughtered or otherwise dies.
Herd.
Any group of animals of the same species maintained on common ground for any purpose, or two or more groups of animals (of the same species) under common ownership or supervision, geographically separated but which have an interchange or movement of animals without regard to health status.
Herd Depopulation.
Removal by slaughter or other means of destruction of all cattle, bison, or swine in a herd or from a specific premises or under common ownership prior to restocking such premises with new animals, except that steers and spayed heifers or barrows and gilts maintained for feeding purposes may be retained on the premises if the Veterinarian in Charge finds such retention to be compatible with eradication efforts. The Veterinarian in Charge may also permit removal of nonpregnant heifers, without payment of indemnity, to Quarantined Feedlots in lieu of immediate slaughter.
Herd known to be affected.
Any herd in which any animal has been classified as a brucellosis reactor and which has not been released from quarantine.
Inbred or hybrid swine.
Any breeding swine which are the progeny of two or more breeds of registered swine and which are maintained to produce inbred or hybrid swine, and for which records of ancestry exist through which such swine can be individually identified as progeny of said registered swine.
Mortgage.
Any mortgage, lien, or other security or interest that is recorded under State law or identified in
the indemnity claim form filed under § 51.7 and held by any person other than the one claiming indemnity.
Official seal.
A serially numbered metal strip consisting of a self-locking device on one end and a slot on the other end, which forms a loop when the ends are engaged, which cannot be reused if opened, and is applied by a representative of the Veterinarian in Charge or the State animal health official.
Owner.
Any person who has a legal or rightful title to animals whether or not they are subject to a mortgage.
Permit.
An official document for movement of animals under this subpart issued by an APHIS representative, state representative, or accredited veterinarian listing the disease status and identification of the animal, where consigned, cleaning and disinfecting requirements, and proof of slaughter certification.
Person.
Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, or joint stock company, or other legal entity.
Recognized slaughtering establishment.
Any slaughtering establishment operating under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
)or a State meat inspection act.
1
1
A list of recognized slaughtering establishments is available upon request from the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, 4700 River Road Unit 37, Riverdale, MD 20737-1231.
Registered breed association.
An association formed and perpetuated for the maintenance of records of purebreeding of animal species for a specific breed whose characteristics are set forth in Constitutions, By-Laws, and other rules of the association. The records maintained by such an association shall include an Official Herd Book or other recordkeeping format and Certificates of Registration or Recordation which identify an animal as a registered animal of that registered breed association. Known registered breed associations are: American Angus Association, American Beefalo Association, Inc., The American Black Maine-Anjou Association, American Blonde d'Aquitaine Association, American Brahman Breeders Association, American Brahmental Association, American Breed Association, Inc., American Chianina Association, American Dexter Cattle Association, American Galloway Breeders Association, American Gelbvieh Association, American Guernsey Cattle Club, American Hereford Association, American International Charolais Association, American (International Marchigiana Society, American Jersey Cattle Club, American Maine-Anjou Association, American Milking Shorthorn Society, American Murray Grey Association, American Normande Association, American Pinzgauer Association, American Polled Hereford Association, American Red Brangus Association, American Red Poll Association, American Salers Association, American Scotch Highland Breeders Association, American Shorthorn Association, American Simmental Association, Inc., American Tarentaise Association, Ankina Breeders, Inc., Ayrshire Breeders Association, Barzona Breed Association of America, Beefmaster Breeders Universal, Belted Galloway Society, Brahmanstein Breeders Association, Brown Swiss Beef International, Inc., Brown Swiss Cattle Breeders Association of U.S.A., Char-Swiss Breeders Association, Devon Cattle Association, Inc., Dutch Belted Cattle Association of America, Inc., Foundation Beefmaster Association, Galloway Cattle Society of America, Inc., Galloway Performance International, Holstein-Friesian Association of America, International Braford Association, International Brangus Breeders Association, Inc., International Maine-Anjou Association, Marky Cattle Association, Mid America RX
3
Cattle Company, National Beefmaster Association, North American Limousin Foundation, Pan American Zebu Association, Red and White Dairy Cattle Association, Red Angus Association of America, Red Poll Beef Breeders International, Red Poll Cattle Club of America, Santa Gertrudis Breeders International, Simbrah Association, South Devon Breed Society, Sussex Cattle Association of America, Texas Longhorn Breeders Association of America, and White Park Cattle Association of America.
Registered cattle.
Cattle for which individual records of ancestry are recorded and maintained by a breed association whose purpose is the improvement of the bovine species, and for which individual registration certificates are issued and recorded by such breed association.
Registered swine.
Any breeding swine for which a certificate of pure breeding has been issued by a purebred swine association.
Sexually intact exposed female calf.
A female bovine less than 6 months of age that is nursed by a brucellosis reactor at the time such reactor is condemned, and that has not been altered to make it incapable of reproduction.
Specifically approved stockyard.
Premises approved by the Administrator, in accordance with § 71.20 of this chapter, for assembling cattle or bison for sale.
2
2
Notices containing lists of specifically approved stockyards are published in the
Federal Register.
Lists of specifically approved stockyards also may be obtained from the State animal health official, State representatives, or APHIS representatives.
State.
Any State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
State animal health official.
The individual employed by a State who is responsible for livestock and poultry disease control and eradication programs in that State.
State representative.
An individual employed in animal health activities by a State or a political subdivision thereof, and who is authorized by such State or political subdivision to perform the function involved under a cooperative agreement with the United States Department of Agriculture.
Unofficial vaccinate.
Any cattle or bison which have been vaccinated for brucellosis other than in accordance with the provisions for official vaccinates set forth in § 78.1 of this chapter.
Veterinarian in Charge.
The veterinary official of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture, who is assigned by the Administrator to supervise and perform official animal health work of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, in the State concerned.
[42 FR 64336, Dec. 23, 1977]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 51.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 51.2
Cooperation with States.
The Administrator has been delegated the authority to cooperate with the proper State authorities in the eradication of brucellosis and to pay indemnities for the destruction of brucellosis-reactor animals or brucellosis-exposed animals.
[42 FR 64336, Dec. 23, 1977, as amended at 54 FR 32435, Aug. 8, 1989]
§ 51.3
Payment to owners for animals destroyed.
(a)
Cattle and bison.
The Administrator may authorize the payment of Federal indemnity by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to any owner whose cattle or bison are destroyed after having been approved for destruction by APHIS under the brucellosis eradication program.
3
In all cases, the amount of Federal indemnity will be determined in accordance with the regulations in this part that were in effect on the date that reactors were found or the date that whole-herd depopulation or destruction of individual animals was approved. Prior to payment of indemnity, proof of destruction
4
must be
furnished to the Veterinarian in Charge.
3
The Administrator shall authorize payment of Federal indemnity by the U.S. Department of Agriculture at the maximum per-head rates in § 51.3: (a) As long as sufficient funds appropriated by Congress appear to be available for this purpose for the remainder of the fiscal year; (b) in States or areas not under Federal quarantine; (c) in States requesting payment of Federal indemnity; and (d) in States not requesting a lower rate.
4
The Veterinarian in Charge shall accept any of the following documents as proof of destruction: (a) A postmortem report; (b) a meat inspection certification of slaughter; (c) a written statement by a State representative, APHIS representative, or accredited veterinarian attesting to the destruction of the animal; (d) a written, sworn statement by the owner or caretaker of the animal attesting to the destruction of the animal; (e)
a permit (VS Form 1-27) consigning the animal from a farm or livestock market directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment; or (f) in unique situations where the documents listed above are not available, other similarly reliable forms of proof of destruction.
(1)
Eligibility for indemnity.
Owners of the following types of animals destroyed because of brucellosis are eligible to receive Federal indemnity for their animals:
(i) Cattle and bison identified as reactors as a result of a complete herd test and any sexually intact exposed female calves;
(ii) Cattle and bison in a herd that has been approved for depopulation; and
(iii) Brucellosis-exposed cattle and brucellosis-exposed bison that were previously sold or traded from any herd that was, subsequent to the sale or trade, found to be affected with brucellosis. Epidemiological information such as test results, herd history, and related evidence will be used to establish a probable date when the herd was first affected with brucellosis. Animals sold after that date will be considered to be exposed; those sold before that date will not.
(2)
Maximum per-head indemnity amounts.
Owners of the types of animals described in § 51.3(a)(1) are eligible to receive Federal indemnity for their animals in the following amounts:
(i)
Brucellosis reactors and sexually intact exposed female calves.
Except for brucellosis reactors and sexually intact exposed female calves destroyed as part of a whole-herd depopulation, the indemnity for cattle and bison that are brucellosis reactors shall not exceed $250 for any registered cattle and nonregistered dairy cattle or $50 for any bison or nonregistered cattle other than dairy cattle, and the indemnity for sexually intact exposed female calves shall not exceed $50.
(ii)
Herd depopulations and individual exposed animals.
Owners of herds that have been approved for depopulation and owners of brucellosis-exposed cattle and brucellosis-exposed bison that meet the conditions of § 51.3 (a)(1)(iii) may choose either of the two methods described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, involving fair market value of the animal to be destroyed or a fixed rate, for determining the maximum amounts of indemnity they may receive.
3
The method chosen must be used for all animals to be destroyed. Owners have the option of having an appraisal done prior to choosing the method used. Appraisals will be conducted by an independent appraiser selected by the Administrator. The cost of the appraisals will be borne by APHIS.
(A)
Appraisal method.
Each eligible animal will be appraised to determine its fair market value. The indemnity shall be the appraised value, minus the salvage value.
(B)
Fixed-rate method.
The indemnity shall not exceed $250 per animal for bison and nonregistered cattle other than dairy cattle and $750 per animal for registered cattle and nonregistered dairy cattle.
(b)
Swine
—(1)
Brucellosis reactor swine.
The Administrator may authorize
3
the payment of Federal indemnity by the United States Department of Agriculture to an owner whose breeding swine are destroyed as brucellosis reactors. The indemnity shall not exceed $25 per head for registered, inbred, or hybrid swine, or $10 per head for all other breeding swine. Prior to payment of indemnity, proof of destruction
4
shall be furnished to the Veterinarian in Charge.
(2)
Herd depopulation.
The Administrator may authorize
3
the payment of Federal indemnity by the United States Department of Agriculture to an owner whose herd of breeding swine or whose whole herd is destroyed because of brucellosis. The indemnity shall not exceed $150 per head for registered, inbred, or hybrid breeding swine, and $65 per head for all other breeding swine, except that in the case of whole herd depopulation, indemnity payments shall be paid on all swine in the herd at fair market value, as determined by the Administrator, based on an appraisal conducted by an independent appraiser assigned by the Administrator. In cases where indemnity is paid for whole herd depopulation, indemnity payments, plus any salvage, must not exceed the appraised value of
each animal. Indemnity payment shall be made only for brucellosis exposed swine or for swine from a herd known to be affected and only when the Administrator determines that the destruction of all swine in the herd will contribute to the Brucellosis Eradication Program. Prior to payment of indemnity, proof of destruction
4
shall be furnished to the Veterinarian in Charge.
(3)
Exposed swine.
The Administrator may authorize
3
the payment of Federal indemnity by the United States Department of Agriculture to an owner whose breeding swine are destroyed because of brucellosis. The indemnity shall not exceed $150 per head for registered, inbred, or hybrid swine, or $65 per head for all other breeding swine. Indemnity payment shall be made only for such brucellosis exposed swine and only when the Administrator determines that the destruction of such swine will contribute to the Brucellosis Eradication Program. Prior to payment of indemnity, proof of destruction
4
shall be furnished to the Veterinarian in Charge.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0047)
[42 FR 64336, Dec. 23, 1977]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 51.3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 51.4
Record of tests.
The claimant shall be responsible for providing information to an APHIS representative, State representative, or accredited veterinarian so that a complete test record may be made by such person on an APHIS approved form for each herd known to be affected, including the reactor tag number of each brucellosis reactor animal and the registration name and number of each brucellosis reactor registered animal. A copy of the applicable test record shall be given to the owner of any such herd, and one copy of each such record shall be furnished to the appropriate State veterinarian's office by such person who completes the test record.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0047)
[42 FR 64336, Dec. 23, 1977, as amended at 48 FR 57472, Dec. 30, 1983; 54 FR 32435, Aug. 8, 1989; 56 FR 18506, Apr. 23, 1991]
§ 51.5
Identification of animals to be destroyed because of brucellosis.
(a) The claimant shall be responsible for insuring that any animal for which indemnity is claimed shall be identified in accordance with the provisions of this section within 15 days after having been classified as a reactor or for any other animal subject to this part within 15 days after having been condemned. The veterinarian in charge may extend the time limit to 30 days when a request for such extension is received by him prior to the expiration date of the original 15 day period allowed, and when he determines that the extension will not adversely affect the brucellosis eradication program; and except further, that the Administrator shall upon request in specific cases, extend the time limit beyond the 30-day period when unusual or unforeseen circumstances occur which prevent or hinder the identification of the animals within the 30-day period, such as, but not limited to, floods, storms, or other Acts of God which are beyond the control of the owner, or when identification is delayed due to requirements of another Federal Agency.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, cattle and bison to be destroyed because of brucellosis shall be individually identified prior to moving interstate by attaching to the left ear a metal tag bearing a serial number and the inscription “U.S. Reactor,” or a similar State reactor tag, and must be:
(1) “B” branded (as defined in § 78.1); or
(2) Accompanied directly to slaughter by an APHIS or State representative; or
(3) Moved in vehicles closed with official seals applied and removed by an APHIS representative, State representative, accredited veterinarian, or an individual authorized for this purpose by an APHIS representative. The official
seal numbers must be recorded on the accompanying permit.
(4) Reactor and exposed cattle and bison in herds scheduled for herd depopulation may be moved interstate without eartagging or branding if they are identified by USDA approved backtags and either accompanied directly to slaughter by an APHIS or State representative or moved directly to slaughter in vehicles closed with official seals. Such official seals must be applied and removed by an APHIS representative, State representative, accredited veterinarian, or an individual authorized for this purpose by an APHIS representative.
(c) Swine shall be individually identified by tagging with a metal tag bearing a serial number and inscription “U.S. Reactor” or a similar State reactor tag or other identification approved by the Administrator, upon request in specific cases, attached to the left ear of each animal.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0047)
[42 FR 64336, Dec. 23, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 53324, Nov. 26, 1982; 48 FR 57472, Dec. 30, 1983; 50 FR 11993, Mar. 27, 1985; 54 FR 32435, Aug. 8, 1989; 56 FR 18506, Apr. 23, 1991; 60 FR 48367, Sept. 19, 1995]
§ 51.6
Destruction of animals; time limit for destruction of animals.
(a)
Cattle.
The claimant shall be responsible for ensuring that cattle subject to this part shall be sold under permit to a recognized slaughtering establishment or to a specifically approved stockyard for sale to a recognized slaughtering establishment.
(b)
Bison.
The claimant shall be responsible for insuring that bison subject to this part shall be sold under permit to a State or Federal slaughtering establishment approved by the Administrator for this purpose or to a stockyard approved by the Administrator for sale to such a slaughtering establishment,
Provided, However,
That the Administrator may approve such other bison slaughtering establishments as may be deemed necessary to accomplish destruction of bison subject to this part.
(c)
Swine.
The claimant shall be responsible for insuring that swine subject to this part shall be sold under permit to a slaughtering establishment where State or Federal Meat inspection is available, or to a market approved by the State Animal Health Official, or to a market approved by the Administrator, for sale to such slaughtering establishment;
5
except that in the case of indemnity for whole herd depopulation, as provided for in § 51.3, swine shall be destroyed, if possible, on the premises where the animals are held or penned at the time the indemnity is approved, or may be moved for destruction to another location when movement to the location is approved in advance by an APHIS representative. In cases where the swine are destroyed other than at a slaughtering establishment, the carcasses of the swine shall be disposed of by burial, incineration, or other disposal means authorized by applicable State law. The destruction and disposition of animals destroyed in accordance with this section other than at a slaughtering establishment shall be performed in the presence of an APHIS representative.
5
Markets are approved by the Administrator in accordance with § 76.18 of this chapter.
(d)
Time limit for destruction of animals.
Payment of indemnity shall be made under this part only if the animals are destroyed within 15 days after the date of identification, pursuant to § 51.5 of the regulations in this part, except that the appropriate Veterinarian in Charge may extend the time limit to 30 days when request for such extension is received from the owner prior to the expiration date of the original 15-day period allowed, or when the animals were sold for slaughter prior to the expiration date of the original 15-day period, and when the Veterinarian in Charge determines that such extension will not adversely affect the Brucellosis Eradication Program; and except further, that the Administrator shall, upon request in specific cases, extend the time limit beyond the 30-day period when unusual and unforeseen circumstances occur which prevent or hinder the destruction of the animals within the 30-day period, such as, but not limited to, floods, storms, or other Acts of God which are beyond
the control of the owner, or when destruction is delayed due to requirements of another Federal Agency.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0047)
[42 FR 64336, Dec. 23, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 43680, June 27, 1980; 45 FR 86410, Dec. 31, 1980; 46 FR 5861, Jan. 21, 1981; 47 FR 53324, Nov. 26, 1982; 48 FR 57472, Dec. 30, 1983; 50 FR 11993, Mar. 27, 1985; 51 FR 11300, Apr. 2, 1986; 51 FR 32599, Sept. 12, 1986; 54 FR 32435, Aug. 8, 1989; 56 FR 18506, Apr. 23, 1991; 59 FR 12533, Mar. 17, 1994]
§ 51.7
Claims for indemnity.
(a) Claims for indemnity for animals destroyed because of brucellosis shall be presented on indemnity claim forms furnished by APHIS on which the owner of the animals covered thereby shall certify that the animals are or are not subject to any mortgage as defined in this part. If the owner states there is a mortgage, the APHIS indemnity claim form shall be signed by the owner and by each person holding a mortgage on the animals, consenting to the payment of any indemnity allowed to the person specified thereon. Payment will be made only if the claimant has submitted a complete indemnity claim form to, and such claim has been approved by the Veterinarian in Charge or by an APHIS representative designated by him. On claims for indemnity made under the provisions of § 51.3, the Veterinarian in Charge or an APHIS representative designated by him shall record on the APHIS indemnity claim form the amount of Federal and State indemnity payments that appear to be due to the owner of the animals. The owner of the animals shall be furnished a copy of the completed APHIS indemnity claim form. The Veterinarian in Charge or an APHIS representative designated by him shall then forward the completed APHIS indemnity claim form to the Administrator for further action on the claim. No charges for holding the animals on the farm pending slaughter or for trucking by the owner shall be so deducted or otherwise paid by the United States Department of Agriculture.
(b) Claims for indemnity for registered cattle shall be accompanied by the cattle's registration papers issued in the name of the owner. If the registration papers are unavailable or if the cattle are less than 1 year old and are not registered at the time the claim for indemnity is submitted, the Veterinarian in Charge may grant a 60-day extension or the Administrator may grant an extension longer than 60 days for the presentation of registration papers.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0047)
[42 FR 64336, Dec. 23, 1977. Redesignated at 46 FR 13674, Feb. 23, 1981, and 47 FR 53324, Nov. 26, 1982, and amended at 47 FR 53324, Nov. 26, 1982; 48 FR 57472, Dec. 30, 1983; 50 FR 11993, Mar. 27, 1985; 54 FR 32435, Aug. 8, 1989; 56 FR 18506, Apr. 23, 1991]
§ 51.8
Disinfection of premises, conveyances, and materials.
All premises, including all structures, holding facilities, conveyances, and materials, contaminated because of occupation or use by brucellosis reactor or exposed animals shall be properly cleaned and disinfected with a disinfectant permitted by APHIS in accordance with recommendations of the APHIS or State representative within 15 days from the date reactors were removed from the premises, except that the appropriate Veterinarian in Charge may extend the time limit for disinfection to 30 days when request for such extension is received by him prior to the expiration date of the original 15-day period allowed, and when he determines that such extension will not adversely affect the Brucellosis Eradication Program; and except further, that the Administrator may, upon request in specific cases, extend the time limit beyond the 30-day period when unusual and unforeseen circumstances occur, such as but not limited to floods, storms, or other Acts of God, which are beyond the control of the owner, preventing or hindering the disinfection of premises, conveyances, and materials. Certain premises may be exempted from such cleaning and disinfecting requirements by approval of the appropriate Veterinarian in Charge on written recommendations by the APHIS or State representative or when a written report by the APHIS or State representative determines that there are no buildings, holding facilities, conveyances, or other materials on the
premises that would require such cleaning and disinfection.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0047)
[42 FR 64336, Dec. 23, 1977. Redesignated at 46 FR 13674, Feb. 23, 1981, and 47 FR 53324, Nov. 26, 1982; 48 FR 57472, Dec. 30, 1983; 50 FR 11993, Mar. 27, 1985; 54 FR 32435, Aug. 8, 1989; 56 FR 18506, Apr. 23, 1991]
§ 51.9
Claims not allowed.
Claims for compensation for animals destroyed because of brucellosis shall not be allowed if any of the following circumstances exist:
(a) If the claimant has failed to comply with any of the requirements of this part.
(b) If the existence of brucellosis in the animal was determined based on the results of an official test, as defined in § 78.1 of this chapter, and specific instructions for the administration of the official test had not previously been issued to the individual performing the test by APHIS and the State animal health official.
(c) If all cattle, bison, and swine eligible for testing in the claimant's herd have not been tested for brucellosis under APHIS or State supervision.
(d) If the animals are:
(1) Barrows or gilts maintained for feeding purposes; or
(2) Spayed heifers or steers, unless the steers are work oxen, or unless the spayed heifers or steers are unweaned animals in a herd approved for depopulation in accordance with § 51.3 of this part.
(e) If the animals are classified as reactors and are unofficial vaccinates, unless there is either a record of a negative official test made not less than 30 days following the date of unofficial vaccination or unless other APHIS approved tests show the unofficial vaccinates are affected with virulent Brucella.
(f) If there is substantial evidence that the owner or his agent has in any way been responsible for any unlawful or improper attempt to obtain indemnity funds for such animal.
(g) If, at the time of test or condemnation, the animals belonged to or were upon the premises of any person to whom they had been sold for slaughter; shipped for slaughter, or delivered for slaughter.
(h) If any known brucellosis reactor animal remains in the herd, unless, in the opinion of the Veterinarian in Charge, a reasonable search has been made for the brucellosis reactor animal and the brucellosis reactor animal could not be found and removed.
(i) If the animals are brucellosis reactor animals which are slaughtered other than as part of a herd depopulation, and which are from a herd: (1) That was already classified as a “herd known to be affected” at the time the animals were identified as brucellosis reactor animals and (2) for which an approved action plan or approved individual herd plan (as defined in § 78.1 of this chapter) was not in effect at the time the claim was filed.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0047)
[42 FR 64336, Dec. 23, 1977. Redesignated at 46 FR 13674, Feb. 23, 1981, and 47 FR 53324, Nov. 26, 1982, and amended at 47 FR 53324, Nov. 26, 1982; 48 FR 57472, Dec. 30, 1983; 50 FR 11993, Mar. 27, 1985; 50 FR 47036, Nov. 14, 1985; 51 FR 11300, Apr. 2, 1986; 54 FR 32435, Aug. 8, 1989; 56 FR 18506, Apr. 23, 1991; 63 FR 47423, Sept. 8, 1998]
§ 51.10
Part 53 of this chapter not applicable.
No claim for indemnity for animals destroyed because of brucellosis shall hereafter be paid under the regulations contained in part 53 of this chapter, but all such claims shall be presented and paid pursuant to and in compliance with regulations contained in this part.
[42 FR 64336, Dec. 23, 1977. Redesignated at 46 FR 13674, Feb. 23, 1981, and 47 FR 53324, Nov. 26, 1982; 50 FR 11993, Mar. 27, 1985]

# Subpart B—Indemnity for Sheep, Goats, and Horses

# Source:
69 FR 41912, July 13, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 51.20
Definitions.
Accredited veterinarian.
A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of part 161 of this title to perform functions specified in parts 1, 2, 3, and 11 of subchapter A, and subchapters B, C, and D of this chapter, and to perform
functions required by cooperative State-Federal disease control and eradication programs.
Administrator.
The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.
Affected herd/flock.
Any herd or flock in which any cattle, bison, breeding swine, sheep, or goat has been classified as a brucellosis reactor and which has not been released from quarantine.
Animal.
Sheep, goats, and horses.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).
The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
APHIS representative.
An individual employed by APHIS who is authorized to perform the function involved.
Appraisal.
An estimate of the fair market value of an animal to be destroyed because of brucellosis.
Brucellosis exposed.
Except for brucellosis reactors, animals that are part of a herd known to be affected, or are in a quarantined feedlot or a quarantined pasture, or are brucellosis suspects, or that have been in contact with a brucellosis reactor for a period of 24 hours or more, or for a period of less than 24 hours if the brucellosis reactor has aborted, calved, or farrowed within the past 30 days or has a vaginal or uterine discharge.
Brucellosis reactor animal.
(1) Any sheep or goat that has been determined by a designated brucellosis epidemiologist
1
to be affected with brucellosis, based on test results, herd/flock history, and/or culture results. Any test used for cattle and bison under the APHIS official brucellosis eradication program (
see
part 78 of this chapter) may be used, but test results must be interpreted by a designated brucellosis epidemiologist.
1
Requirements for designated brucellosis epidemiologists are contained in Veterinary Services Memorandum No. 551.10. A copy of this memorandum may be obtained from an APHIS representative, the State animal health official, or a State representative.
(2) Any horse that has been determined by a designated brucellosis epidemiologist to be affected with brucellosis, based on epidemiological information or culture results, or positive results for brucellosis in accordance with one of the following tests:
Test
Positive results
Standard plate test (SPT)
If antibody titer positive at 1:100 dilution or higher.
Standard tube test (STT)
If antibody titer positive at 1:100 dilution or higher.
Rivanol test
If antibody titer positive at 1:50 dilution or higher.
Particle concentration fluorescence immunoassay (PCFIA)
If reading is 0.3 or lower.
Complement fixation test (CF)
If reading is 2 + :20 dilution.
(3) Any cattle, bison, or swine classified as a brucellosis reactor as provided in the definition of official test in § 78.1 of this chapter.
Condemn.
The determination made by an APHIS representative, State representative, or accredited veterinarian that animals for which indemnity is sought under this subpart will be destroyed.
Designated brucellosis epidemiologist.
An epidemiologist selected by the State animal health official and the Veterinarian in Charge to perform the functions required. The regional epidemiologist and the APHIS brucellosis staff must concur in the selection and appointment of the designated epidemiologist.
Destroyed.
Condemned under State authority and slaughtered or otherwise dies.
Flock.
Any group of sheep maintained on common ground for any purpose, or two or more groups of sheep under common ownership or supervision, geographically separated but which have an interchange or movement of animals without regard to health status.
Herd.
Any group of goats, or mixed sheep and goats, maintained on common ground for any purpose, or two or more groups of goats, or two or more groups of mixed sheep and goats, under common ownership or supervision, geographically separated but which have an interchange or movement of animals without regard to health status.
Herd/flock depopulation.
Removal by slaughter or other means of destruction of all sheep or goats in a flock or herd, or from a specific premises or under common ownership prior to restocking such premises with new animals.
Mortgage.
Any mortgage, lien, or interest that is recorded under State law or identified in the indemnity claim form filed in accordance with this subpart, and held by any person other than the one claiming indemnity.
Official seal.
A serially numbered metal strip consisting of a self-locking device on one end and a slot on the other end, which forms a loop when the ends are engaged and which cannot be reused if opened, and is applied by a representative of the Veterinarian in Charge or the State animal health official.
Owner.
Any person who has legal or rightful title to sheep, goats, and horses, whether or not the animals are subject to a mortgage.
Permit.
An official document for movement of animals under this subpart issued by an APHIS representative, State representative, or accredited veterinarian listing the disease status and identification of the animal, where consigned, cleaning and disinfecting requirements, and proof of slaughter certification.
Person.
Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, or joint stock company, or other legal entity.
Registered sheep and goats.
Sheep and goats for which individual records of ancestry are recorded and maintained by a breed association whose purpose is the improvement of the species, and for which individual registration certificates are issued and recorded by such breed association.
State.
Any State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
State representative.
An individual employed in animal health activities by a State or a political subdivision thereof, and who is authorized by such State or political subdivision to perform the function involved under a cooperative agreement with the United States Department of Agriculture.
Veterinarian in Charge.
The APHIS veterinary official who is assigned by the Administrator to supervise and perform the official animal health work of APHIS in the State or area concerned, or any person authorized to act for the Veterinarian in Charge.
§ 51.21
Cooperation with States.
The Administrator has been delegated the authority to cooperate with the proper State authorities in the eradication of brucellosis and to pay indemnities for the destruction of brucellosis-reactor animals or brucellosis-exposed animals.
§ 51.22
Payment to owners for goats, sheep, and horses destroyed.
(a) The Administrator may authorize the payment of Federal indemnity by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to any owner whose goats, sheep, or horses are destroyed after having been approved for destruction by APHIS.
1
Goats or sheep must be destroyed as part of a whole herd/flock depopulation to be eligible for Federal indemnity.
1
The Administrator will authorize payment of Federal indemnity by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as provided in § 51.24: (a) As long as sufficient funds appropriated by Congress appear to be available for this purpose for the remainder of the fiscal year; (b) in States or areas not under Federal quarantine; (c) in States requesting payment of Federal indemnity; and (d) in States not requesting a lower rate.
(b) The amount of Federal indemnity will be determined in accordance with the regulations in this part that were in effect on the date infected animals were found, or the date that the whole-herd/flock depopulation or destruction of individual animals was approved.
(c) Prior to payment of indemnity, proof of destruction must be furnished to the Veterinarian in Charge.
§ 51.23
Eligibility for indemnity.
Owners of animals destroyed because of brucellosis are eligible to receive Federal indemnity for their animals if the animals are:
(a) Sheep and goats in an affected herd or flock;
(b) Sheep and goats that were obtained from a herd or flock that was subsequently found to be an affected herd or flock. Epidemiological information such as test results, herd/flock history, and related evidence will be used to establish a probable date when the herd or flock was first affected with
brucellosis. Animals removed from the herd or flock after that date will be considered exposed to the disease and eligible for indemnity; those removed before that date will not;
(c) Individual horses that have been found to be brucellosis reactor animals.
§ 51.24
Maximum per-head indemnity amounts.
Owners of the types of animals listed in § 51.22 of this subpart are eligible to receive Federal indemnity for their animals. All animals must be individually appraised to determine their fair market value. The indemnity amount will be the appraised value minus the salvage value of the animal, up to a maximum of $20,000 per animal in the case of horses. An independent appraiser selected by the Administrator will conduct appraisals. APHIS will pay the cost of appraisals.
§ 51.25
Proof of destruction.
The Veterinarian in Charge will accept any of the following documents as proof of destruction:
(a) A postmortem report;
(b) A meat inspection certification of slaughter;
(c) A written statement by a State representative, APHIS representative, or accredited veterinarian attesting to the destruction of the animals;
(d) A written, sworn statement by the owner or caretaker of the animal attesting to the destruction of the animals;
(e) A permit (VS Form 1-27) consigning the animal from a farm or livestock market directly to a slaughter establishment; or
(f) In unique situations where none of the documents listed above are available, other similarly reliable forms of proof of destruction.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0185)
§ 51.26
Record of tests.
An APHIS representative, State representative, or accredited veterinarian will compile, on an APHIS-approved form, a complete test record for each animal. The claimant must provide any information necessary to complete the form. The test record must include the type of test and the test results for each animal. It must also include the individual identification of each tested animal. Any unique, individually numbered identification is acceptable. The animal's owner and the appropriate State veterinarian's office will each receive a copy of the test record.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0185)
§ 51.27
Identification of goats, sheep, and horses to be destroyed.
The claimant must ensure that any goats, sheep, and horses for which indemnity is claimed are marked with unique, individually numbered identification showing they are to be destroyed. This must be done within 15 days after the animals are condemned. The Veterinarian in Charge may extend the time limit to 30 days when the Veterinarian in Charge receives a request for extension prior to the expiration date of the original 15-day period, and when the Veterinarian in Charge determines that the extension will not adversely affect the brucellosis eradication program. However, the Administrator may extend the time limit beyond 30 days when unusual or unforeseen circumstances occur that prevent or hinder the identification of the animal within 30 days, such as, but not limited to, floods, storms, or other Acts of God, which are beyond the control of the owner, or when identification is delayed due to requirements of another Federal agency.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0185)
§ 51.28
Moving goats, sheep, and horses to be destroyed.
Goats, sheep, and horses to be destroyed because of brucellosis must be accompanied by a permit and either:
(a) Accompanied directly to slaughter by an APHIS or State representative; or
(b) Moved in vehicles closed with official seals applied and removed by an APHIS representative, State representative, accredited veterinarian, or an individual authorized for this purpose by an APHIS representative. The official
seal numbers must be recorded on the accompanying permit.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0185)
§ 51.29
Destruction of animals; time limit.
(a) The claimant must ensure that goats, sheep, and horses infected with or exposed to
B. abortus
are either:
(1) Sold under permit to a recognized slaughtering establishment;
(2) Moved to an approved stockyard for sale to a recognized slaughtering establishment; or
(3) Destroyed and buried, incinerated, or rendered in accordance with applicable State law.
(b) The claimant must ensure that goats and sheep destroyed because of
B. melitensis
are destroyed and buried, incinerated, or rendered in accordance with applicable State law.
(c) Indemnity will be paid under this part only if the animals are destroyed within 15 days after the date they are marked with identification showing they are to be destroyed. However, the Veterinarian in Charge may extend the time limit to 30 days if:
(1) The animals' owner asks the Veterinarian in Charge for an extension before the initial 15-day period expires, or the animals were sold for slaughter before the original 15-day period expires; and
(2) The Veterinarian in Charge determines that extending the time limit will not adversely affect the Brucellosis Eradication Program.
(d) The Administrator may extend the time limit beyond 30 days when unusual and unforeseen circumstances occur that prevent or hinder the destruction of the animals within 30 days, such as, but not limited to, floods, storms, or other Acts of God, which are beyond the control of the owner, or when destruction is delayed due to requirements of another Federal agency.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0185)
§ 51.30
Claims for indemnity.
(a) Claims for indemnity for goats, sheep, and horses destroyed because of brucellosis must be made using an indemnity claim form furnished by APHIS. On the form, the owner of the animals must certify whether the animals are subject to a mortgage. If the owner states there is a mortgage, the claim form must be signed by the owner and by each mortgage holder, consenting to the payment of any indemnity allowed to the owner. Payment will be made only if the claimant has submitted a complete indemnity claim form to the Veterinarian in Charge and the claim has been approved by the Veterinarian in Charge or by an APHIS representative designated by him or her. The Veterinarian in Charge or an APHIS representative designated by the Veterinarian in Charge will record on the APHIS indemnity claim form the amount of Federal and State indemnity payments that appear to be due to the owner of the animals. The owner of the animals will receive a copy of the completed APHIS indemnity claim form. The owner is responsible for paying all fees for holding the animals on the farm pending disposal and for all trucking fees.
(b) Claims for indemnity for registered sheep and registered goats must be accompanied by the animal's registration papers, issued in the name of the owner. If the registration papers are unavailable or if the animal is less than 1 year old and not registered at the time the claim for indemnity is submitted, the Veterinarian in Charge may grant a 60-day extension or the Administrator may grant an extension longer than 60 days for the presentation of registration papers. Any animal that is not registered but is eligible for registration at the time the claim is submitted will be considered unregistered unless the animal has been in the flock for less than 12 months.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0185)
§ 51.31
Disinfecting premises, conveyances, and materials.
All premises, including all structures, holding facilities, conveyances, and materials contaminated because they have been used by animals destroyed because of brucellosis, must be properly cleaned and disinfected in accordance with recommendations of the
APHIS or State representative. Cleaning and disinfecting must be completed within 15 days from the date the animals were removed from the premises, except that the Veterinarian in Charge may extend the time limit for disinfection to 30 days when he or she receives a request prior the expiration date of the original 15 days, and when the Veterinarian in Charge determines that an extension will not adversely affect the Brucellosis Eradication Program. The Administrator may extend the time limit beyond 30 days when unusual and unforeseen circumstances occur that prevent or hinder disinfection of the premises, conveyances, and materials within 30 days, such as, but not limited to floods, storms, or other Acts of God, which are beyond the control of the owner. A premises may be exempted from such cleaning and disinfecting requirements if the APHIS or State representative recommends it in writing and the Veterinarian in Charge approves.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0185)
§ 51.32
Claims not allowed.
Claims for indemnity for goats, sheep, and horses destroyed because of brucellosis will not be allowed if any of the following circumstances exist:
(a) The claimant has failed to comply with any of the requirements of this part;
(b) The claim is based on a brucellosis test, and the person who administered the test was not properly trained, authorized, or certified at the time of the test;
(c) Testing of goats, sheep, and horses in the herd or flock for brucellosis was not done under APHIS or State supervision, or by an accredited veterinarian;
(d) There is substantial evidence that the claim is an unlawful or improper attempt to obtain indemnity; or
(e) If, at the time of test or condemnation, the animals belonged to or were upon the premises of any person to whom they had been sold for slaughter, shipped for slaughter, or delivered for slaughter.
§ 51.33
Multiple indemnity payments.
APHIS has indemnity programs for several other livestock diseases. However, if a claim is paid for indemnity for animals destroyed because of brucellosis, no other claims for indemnity will be paid for the same animals.
Pt. 52

# PART 52—SWINE DESTROYED BECAUSE OF PSEUDORABIES
Sec.
52.1
Definitions.
52.2
Payment of indemnity.
52.3
Appraisal of swine.
52.4
Presentation of claims.
52.5
Report of net salvage proceeds.
52.6
Claims not allowed.
52.7
Disinfection of premises, conveyances, and materials.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8301-8317; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.4.

# Source:
64 FR 2549, Jan. 15, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 52.1
Definitions.
Accredited veterinarian.
A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of part 161 of this chapter to perform functions specified in subchapters B, C, and D of this chapter.
Administrator.
The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any other employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture, delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).
The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
APHIS employee.
Any individual employed by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service who is authorized by the Administrator to do any work or perform any duty in connection with the control and eradication of disease.
Approved differential pseudorabies test.
Any test for the diagnosis of pseudorabies that can distinguish vaccinated swine from infected swine; is produced under license from the Secretary of Agriculture under the Virus-Serum-Toxin Act of March 4, 1913, and subsequent amendments (21 U.S.C. 151
et seq.
) with indications for use in the Cooperative State-Federal
Pseudorabies Eradication Program; and is conducted in a laboratory approved by the Administrator.
1
1
The names and addresses of laboratories approved by the Administrator to conduct approved differential pseudorabies tests are published in the Notices Section of the
Federal Register.
A list of approved laboratories is also available upon request from the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, 4700 River Road Unit 37, Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1231. State, Federal, and university laboratories will be approved by the Administrator when he or she determines that the laboratory: employs personnel trained at the National Veterinary Services Laboratories assigned to supervise the testing; follows standard test protocols; meets check test proficiency requirements; and will report all test results to State and Federal animal health officials. Before the Administrator may withdraw approval of any laboratory for failure to meet any of these conditions, the Administrator must give written notice of the proposed withdrawal to the director of the laboratory, and must give the director an opportunity to respond. If there are conflicts as to any material fact, a hearing will be held to resolve the conflict.
Department.
The United States Department of Agriculture.
Herd.
Any group of swine maintained on common ground for any purpose, or two or more groups of swine under common ownership or supervision that are geographically separated but that are determined by an official pseudorabies epidemiologist to have an interchange or movement of animals that could cause the transmission of pseudorabies from one group to another.
Inspector in charge.
An APHIS employee who is designated by the Administrator to take charge of work in connection with the control and eradication of disease.
Known infected breeding sow.
Any breeding sow that has been determined to be infected with pseudorabies based on an official pseudorabies test or an approved differential pseudorabies test, or as diagnosed by an official pseudorabies epidemiologist as having pseudorabies.
Known infected herd.
Any herd in which swine have been determined to be infected with pseudorabies based on an official pseudorabies test or an approved differential pseudorabies test, or based on a diagnosis by an official pseudorabies epidemiologist.
Materials.
Parts of barns or other structures, straw, hay, and other feed for animals, farm products or equipment, clothing, and articles stored in or adjacent to barns or other structures.
Mortgage.
Any mortgage, lien, or other security or beneficial interest held by any person other than the one claiming indemnity.
Net salvage.
The amount received for swine destroyed because of pseudorabies, after deducting freight, trucking, yardage, commission, slaughtering charges, and similar costs to the owner.
Official pseudorabies epidemiologist.
A State or Federally employed veterinarian designated by the State animal health official and the veterinarian in charge to investigate and diagnose pseudorabies in livestock.
Official pseudorabies test.
Any test for the diagnosis of pseudorabies approved by the Administrator and conducted in a laboratory approved by the Administrator. The following tests for the diagnosis of pseudorabies have been approved by the Administrator: Microtitration Serum-Virus Neutralization Test; Virus Isolation and Identification Test; Fluorescent Antibody Tissue Section Test; Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) Test, except for approved differential pseudorabies tests other than the glycoprotein I (gpI) ELISA test; Latex Agglutination Test (LAT); and Particle Concentration Fluorescence Immunoassay (PCFIA) Test.
2
State, Federal, and university laboratories will be approved by the Administrator following his determination that the laboratory: has personnel trained at the Veterinary Services Diagnostic Laboratory at Ames, Iowa, assigned to supervise the test; follows standard test protocol; meets check test proficiency requirements; and will report
all test results to State and Federal animal health officials.
3
2
Copies of the test protocols (Recommended Minimum Standards for Diagnostic Tests Employed in the Diagnosis of Pseudorabies (Aujeszky's Disease) are available upon request from the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Veterinary Services, Operational Support, 4700 River Road Unit 33, Riverdale, MD 20737-1231.
3
Before the Administrator withdraws the approval of any laboratory, the Director of the laboratory will be given a notice by the Administrator of the proposed disapproval and the reasons for it, and the Director will have the opportunity to respond. In those instances where there are conflicts as to the facts, a hearing will be held to resolve such conflicts.
Official seal.
A serially numbered metal or plastic strip, consisting of a self-locking device on one end and a slot on the other end, that forms a loop when the ends are engaged and that cannot be reused if opened, or a serially numbered, self-locking button that can be used for this purpose.
Permit.
An official document for movement of swine under this part that is issued by an APHIS employee, State representative, or accredited veterinarian and that lists the disease status and individual identification of the animal, where consigned, cleaning and disinfection requirements, and proof of slaughter certification by a recognized slaughtering establishment.
Person.
Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or other legal entity.
Pseudorabies.
The contagious, infectious, and communicable disease of livestock and other animals, also known as Aujeszky's disease, mad itch, or infectious bulbar paralysis.
Recognized slaughtering establishment.
A slaughtering establishment operating under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
) or a State meat inspection act.
4
4
A list of recognized slaughtering establishments is available upon request from the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, 4700 River Road Unit 37, Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1231.
Secretary.
The Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department delegated to act in the Secretary's stead.
State.
Each of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
State representative.
A person regularly employed in the animal health work of a State and who is authorized by that State to perform the function involved under a cooperative agreement with the United States Department of Agriculture.
Veterinarian in charge.
The veterinary official of Veterinary Services, APHIS, who is assigned by the Administrator to supervise and perform official animal health work for APHIS in the State concerned.
[64 FR 2549, Jan. 15, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 20711, Apr. 18, 2000; 68 FR 6342, Feb. 7, 2003]
§ 52.2
Payment of indemnity.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Administrator is authorized to agree on the part of the Department to pay indemnity to the owner of herds of swine destroyed because the herds are known to be infected with pseudorabies, or individual breeding sows destroyed because they are known to be infected with pseudorabies. The amount of indemnity paid, together with the amount for net salvage the owner receives when the animals are slaughtered, shall not exceed the fair market value of the swine. Such swine must be sent directly to slaughter under permit in a conveyance closed with an official seal applied and removed by either an APHIS employee, a State representative, an accredited veterinarian, or an individual authorized for this purpose by an APHIS employee. The swine must be sent to a recognized slaughtering establishment.
(b) If swine from herds that are destroyed because the herds are known to be infected with pseudorabies are not accepted at a recognized slaughtering establishment, or the owner and an APHIS employee or State representative agree they will not be accepted by a recognized slaughtering establishment, the Administrator is authorized to pay 100 percent of the expenses of the purchase, destruction, and disposition of such swine.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0151)
[65 FR 20711, Apr. 18, 2000]
§ 52.3
Appraisal of swine.
(a) Herds of swine and individual breeding sows to be destroyed because they are known to be infected with pseudorabies will be appraised by an APHIS employee and a representative of the State jointly, a representative of the State alone, or, if the State authorities approve, by an APHIS employee alone.
(b) The appraisal of swine will be based on the fair market value as determined by the meat or breeding value of the animals. Animals may be appraised in groups, provided that where appraisal is by the head, each animal in the group is the same value per head, and where appraisal is by the pound, each animal in the group is the same value per pound.
(c) Appraisals of swine must be reported on forms furnished by APHIS and signed by the owner of the swine. Reports of appraisals must show the number of swine and the value per head or the weight and value by pound.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0137)
[64 FR 2549, Jan. 15, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 20711, Apr. 18, 2000]
§ 52.4
Presentation of claims.
(a) When swine have been destroyed under § 52.2(a), any claim for indemnity must be presented, along with the report of net salvage proceeds required under § 52.5, to the veterinarian in charge on a form furnished by APHIS.
(b) When swine have been destroyed under § 52.2(b), any claim for indemnity must be presented, through the inspector in charge, to APHIS on a form furnished by APHIS.
(c) For all claims for indemnity, the owner of the swine must certify on the claim form that the swine covered are, or are not, subject to any mortgage as defined in this part. If the owner states there is a mortgage, the owner and each person holding a mortgage on the swine must sign, consenting to the payment of indemnity to the person specified on the form.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0137)
[65 FR 20711, Apr. 18, 2000]
§ 52.5
Report of net salvage proceeds.
A report of the amount for net salvage derived from the sale of each animal for which a claim for indemnity is made under § 52.2(a) must be made on a salvage form that shows the gross receipts, expenses if any, and net proceeds. The original or a copy of the salvage form must be furnished by the owner to the veterinarian in charge.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0151)
[65 FR 20712, Apr. 18, 2000]
§ 52.6
Claims not allowed.
(a) The Department will not allow claims arising out of the destruction of swine unless the swine have been appraised as prescribed in this part and the owners have signed a written agreement to the appraisals.
(b) The Department will not allow claims arising out of the destruction of swine that have been moved or handled by the owner or a representative of the owner in violation of a law or regulation administered by the Secretary regarding animal disease, or in violation of a law or regulation for which the Secretary has entered into a cooperative agreement.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0137)
[64 FR 2549, Jan. 15, 1999. Redesignated at 65 FR 20711, Apr. 18, 2000]
§ 52.7
Disinfection of premises, conveyances, and materials.
All premises, including barns, stockyards and pens, and all cars and other conveyances, and the materials on any premises or conveyances used to house or transport swine for which indemnity is paid under this part must be cleaned and disinfected under the supervision of an APHIS employee after removal of the swine from the known infected herd. Premises may be restocked with swine 30 days following an approved cleaning and disinfection, unless an official pseudorabies epidemiologist determines that a shorter or longer period of time is adequate or necessary to protect new animals against infection. The owner to whom the indemnity is paid will be responsible for expenses incurred in connection with the cleaning
and disinfection, except for cleaning and disinfection of the conveyances used to transport the swine to the location of disposal.
[64 FR 13065, Mar. 17, 1999. Redesignated at 65 FR 20711, Apr. 18, 2000]
Pt. 53

# PART 53—FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE, PLEUROPNEUMONIA, AND CERTAIN OTHER COMMUNICABLE DISEASES OF LIVESTOCK OR POULTRY
Sec.
53.1
Definitions.
53.2
Determination of existence of disease; agreements with States.
53.3
Appraisal of animals, eggs, or materials.
53.4
Destruction of animals or eggs.
53.5
Disinfection or destruction of materials.
53.6
Disinfection of animals.
53.7
Disinfection of premises, conveyances, and materials.
53.8
Presentation of claims.
53.9
Mortgage against animals, eggs, or materials.
53.10
Claims not allowed.
53.11
Highly pathogenic avian influenza; conditions for payment.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8301-8317; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.4.

# Cross Reference:
For non-applicability of part 53 with respect to certain claims for indemnity, see § 51.10 of this chapter.
§ 53.1
Definitions.
Accredited veterinarian.
A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with part 161 of this chapter to perform functions specified in parts 1, 2, 3, and 11 of subchapter A of this chapter and subchapters B, C, and D of this chapter, and to perform functions required by cooperative State-Federal disease control and eradication programs.
Administrator.
The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (APHIS).
Animals.
Livestock, poultry, and all other members of the animal kingdom, including birds whether domesticated or wild, but not including man.
APHIS employee.
Any individual employed by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service who is authorized by the Administrator to do any work or perform any duty in connection with the control and eradication of disease.
Bird.
Any member of the class
aves
other than poultry.
Buffer zone.
The zone within a control area that immediately surrounds an infected zone.
Control area.
The area around a premises infected with highly pathogenic avian influenza and consisting of an infected zone and a buffer zone, the bounds of which are determined and communicated to producers by Federal or State officials.
Department.
The United States Department of Agriculture.
Disease.
Foot-and-mouth disease, contagious pleuropneumonia, Newcastle disease, highly pathogenic avian influenza, infectious salmon anemia, spring viremia of carp, or any other communicable disease of livestock or poultry that in the opinion of the Secretary constitutes an emergency and threatens the livestock or poultry of the United States.
Infected zone.
The zone within a control area that immediately surrounds a premises infected with highly pathogenic avian influenza, up to the beginning of the buffer zone.
Highly pathogenic avian influenza.
(1) Any influenza virus that kills at least 75 percent of eight 4- to 6-week-old susceptible chickens within 10 days following intravenous inoculation with 0.2 ml of a 1:10 dilution of a bacteria-free, infectious allantoic fluid;
(2) Any H5 or H7 virus that does not meet the criteria in paragraph (1) of this definition, but has an amino acid sequence at the hemagglutinin cleavage site that is compatible with highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses; or
(3) Any influenza virus that is not an H5 or H7 subtype and that kills one to five chickens and grows in cell culture in the absence of trypsin.
Inspector in charge.
An APHIS employee who is designated by the Administrator to take charge of work in connection with the control and eradication of disease.
ISA Program veterinarian.
The APHIS veterinarian assigned to manage the
infectious salmon anemia program for APHIS in the State of Maine and who reports to the Area Veterinarian in Charge.
Materials.
Parts of barns or other structures, straw, hay, and other feed for animals, farm products or equipment, clothing, and articles stored in or adjacent to barns or other structures.
Mortgage.
Any mortgage, lien, or other security or beneficial interest held by any person other than the one claiming indemnity.
Newcastle disease.
Newcastle disease is an acute, rapidly spreading, and usually fatal viral infection of poultry caused by an avian paramyxovirus serotype 1 that meets one of the following criteria for virulence: The virus has an intracerebral pathogenicity index (ICPI) in day-old chicks (
Gallus gallus
) of 0.7 or greater; or multiple basic amino acids have been demonstrated in the virus (either directly or by deduction) at the C-terminus of the F2 protein and phenylalanine at residue 117, which is the N-terminus of the F1 protein. The term “multiple basic amino acids” refers to at least three arginine or lysine residues between residues 113 and 116. In this definition, amino acid residues are numbered from the N-terminus of the amino acid sequence deduced from the nucleotide sequence of the F0 gene; 113-116 corresponds to residues −4 to −1 from the cleavage site. Failure to demonstrate the characteristic pattern of amino acid residues as described above may require characterization of the isolated virus by an ICPI test. A failure to detect a cleavage site that is consistent with virulent strains does not confirm the absence of a virulent virus.
Person.
Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or other legal entity.
Pet bird.
Any bird that is kept for personal pleasure and is not for sale.
Poultry.
Chickens, ducks, geese, swans, turkeys, pigeons, doves, pheasants, grouse, partridges, quail, guinea fowl, and pea fowl.
Poultry biosecurity plan.
A document utilized by an owner and/or contractor describing the management practices and principles that are used to prevent the introduction and spread of infectious diseases of poultry at a specific facility.
Secretary.
The Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been or may be delegated to act in the Secretary's stead.
State.
Each of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
[61 FR 56882, Nov. 5, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 17610, Apr. 11, 2002; 69 FR 27827, May 17, 2004; 74 FR 18287, Apr. 22, 2009; 78 FR 19082, Mar. 29, 2013; 83 FR 15492, Apr. 11, 2018; 83 FR 40438, Aug. 15, 2018; 89 FR 106995, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 53.2
Determination of existence of disease; agreements with States.
(a) The Administrator is hereby authorized to invite the proper State authorities to cooperate with the Department in the control and eradication of any disease within the meaning of § 53.1.
(b) Upon agreement of the authorities of the State to enforce quarantine restrictions and orders and directives properly issued in the control and eradication of such a disease, the Administrator is hereby authorized to agree, on the part of the Department, to cooperate with the State in the control and eradication of the disease, and to pay 50 percent (and in the case of Newcastle disease or highly pathogenic avian influenza, up to 100 percent, and in the case of infectious salmon anemia, up to 60 percent) of the expenses of purchase, destruction and disposition of animals, eggs, and materials required to be destroyed because of being contaminated by or exposed to such disease:
Provided, however, that
if the animals or eggs were exposed to such disease prior to or during interstate movement and the owners or parties contracting with the owners to raise or care for the animals or eggs are not eligible to receive indemnity from any State, the Department may pay up to 100 percent of the purchase, destruction, and disposition of animals, eggs, and materials required to be destroyed;
Provided further,
that the cooperative
program for the purchase, destruction, and disposition of birds shall be limited to birds which are identified in documentation pursuant to Agreements between the Department and the particular State involved relating to cooperative animal (including poultry) disease prevention, control, and eradication, as constituting a threat to the poultry industry of the United States;
And provided further,
that the Secretary may authorize other arrangements for the payment of such expenses upon finding that an extraordinary emergency exists.
[37 FR 5689, Mar. 18, 1972, as amended at 49 FR 3448, Jan. 27, 1984; 49 FR 26712, June 29, 1984; 61 FR 56883, Nov. 5, 1996; 67 FR 17610, Apr. 11, 2002; 67 FR 67095, Nov. 4, 2002; 78 FR 19082, Mar. 29, 2013; 81 FR 6750, Feb. 9, 2016]
§ 53.3
Appraisal of animals, eggs, or materials.
(a) Animals or eggs affected by or exposed to disease, and materials required to be destroyed because of being contaminated by or exposed to disease shall be appraised by an APHIS employee and a representative of the State jointly, or, if the State authorities approve, by an APHIS employee alone.
(b) The appraisal of animals shall be based on the fair market value and shall be determined by the meat, egg production, dairy or breeding value of such animals. Animals may be appraised in groups providing they are the same species and type and providing that where appraisal is by the head each animal in the group is the same value per head or where appraisal is by the pound each animal in the group is the same value per pound.
(c) Appraisals of animals shall be reported on forms furnished by APHIS. Reports of appraisals shall show the number of animals of each species and the value per head or the weight and value by pound.
(d) Appraisals of materials shall be reported on forms furnished by APHIS. Reports of appraisals of materials shall, when practicable, show the number, size or quantity, unit price, and total value of each kind of material appraised.
(e) Indemnity for eggs required to be destroyed due to an outbreak of highly pathogenic avian influenza will be based on the fair market value of the eggs, as determined by an appraisal. Appraisals of eggs shall be reported on forms furnished by APHIS. The amount of indemnity paid, together with the amount for net salvage the owner or contractor received, if any, shall not exceed the appraised fair market value of the eggs.
[28 FR 5935, June 13, 1963, as amended at 35 FR 13981, Sept. 3, 1970; 36 FR 25217, Dec. 30, 1971; 56 FR 51974, Oct. 17, 1991; 68 FR 6343, Feb. 7, 2003; 81 FR 6750, Feb. 9, 2016]
§ 53.4
Destruction of animals or eggs.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, animals infected with or exposed to disease shall be killed promptly after appraisal and disposed of by burial or burning, unless otherwise specifically provided by the Administrator, at his or her discretion. In the case of animals depopulated due to spring viremia of carp or infectious salmon anemia, salvageable fish may be sold for rendering, processing, or any other purpose approved by the Administrator. The proceeds gained from the sale of the fish will be subtracted from any payment from APHIS for which the producer or owner is eligible under § 53.2(b) or § 53.11.
(b) Eggs infected with, exposed to, or contaminated by highly pathogenic avian influenza shall be disposed of pursuant to the regulations in this part under the supervision of an APHIS employee who shall prepare and transmit to the Administrator a report identifying all eggs disposed thereof.
(c) The killing of animals and the burial, burning, or other disposal of carcasses of animals pursuant to the regulations in this part shall be supervised by an APHIS employee who shall prepare and transmit to the Administrator a report identifying the animals and showing the disposition thereof.
[28 FR 5935, June 13, 1963, as amended at 56 FR 51974, Oct. 17, 1991; 67 FR 67095, Nov. 4, 2002; 68 FR 42569, July 18, 2003; 69 FR 27827, May 17, 2004; 71 FR 56323, Sept. 26, 2006; 81 FR 6750, Feb. 9, 2016]
§ 53.5
Disinfection or destruction of materials.
(a) In order to prevent the spread of disease, materials contaminated by or
exposed to disease shall be disinfected:
Provided, however,
That in all cases in which the cost of disinfection would exceed the value of the materials or disinfection would be impracticable for any reason, the materials shall be destroyed, after appraisal as provided in § 53.3.
(b) The disinfection or destruction of materials under this section shall be under the supervision of an APHIS employee who shall prepare and transmit to the Administrator a certificate identifying all materials which are destroyed, showing the disposition thereof.
[28 FR 5935, June 13, 1963, as amended at 56 FR 51974, Oct. 17, 1991]
§ 53.6
Disinfection of animals.
Animals of species not susceptible to the disease for which a quarantine has been established, but which have been exposed to the disease, shall be disinfected when necessary by such methods as the Administrator shall prescribe from time to time.
[28 FR 5935, June 13, 1963, as amended at 56 FR 51974, Oct. 17, 1991]
§ 53.7
Disinfection of premises, conveyances, and materials.
All premises, including barns, corrals, stockyards and pens, and all cars, vessels, aircraft, and other conveyances, and the materials thereon, shall be cleaned and disinfected under supervision of an APHIS employee whenever necessary for the control and eradication of disease. Expenses incurred in connection with such cleaning and disinfection shall be shared according to the agreement reached under § 53.2 with the State in which the work is done. In the case of low pathogenic avian influenza related to the 2002 disease situations in Virginia and Texas associated with the H5 or H7 virus, premises may not be restocked with poultry until at least 7 days following such cleaning and disinfection, unless the Administrator determines that a shorter or longer period of time is adequate or necessary to protect new poultry against infection.
[68 FR 42569, July 18, 2003]
§ 53.8
Presentation of claims.
(a) Claims for the following must be presented to APHIS, through the inspector in charge, on a form approved by the Administrator:
(1) Compensation for the value of animals;
(2) The cost of burial, burning, or other disposition of animals;
(3) The value of material destroyed; and
(4) The expenses of destruction.
(b) [Reserved]
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0208)
[67 FR 67095, Nov. 4, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 42570, July 18, 2003; 71 FR 56323, Sept. 26, 2006]
§ 53.9
Mortgage against animals, eggs, or materials.
When animals, eggs, or materials have been destroyed pursuant to the requirements contained in this part, any claim for indemnity shall be presented on forms furnished by APHIS on which the owner of the animals, eggs, or materials shall certify that the animals, eggs, or materials covered thereby, are, or are not, subject to any mortgage as defined in this part. If the owner states there is a mortgage, forms furnished by APHIS shall be signed by the owner and by each person holding a mortgage on the animals, eggs, or materials, consenting to the payment of any indemnity allowed to the person specified thereon.
[28 FR 5935, June 13, 1963, as amended at 56 FR 51974, Oct. 17, 1991; 81 FR 6750, Feb. 9, 2016]
§ 53.10
Claims not allowed.
(a) The Department will not allow claims arising under the terms of this part if the payee has not complied with all quarantine requirements.
(b) Expenses for the care and feeding of animals held for destruction will not be paid by the Department, unless the payment of such expense is specifically authorized or approved by the Administrator.
(c) The Department will not allow claims arising out of the destruction of animals, eggs, or materials unless they shall have been appraised as prescribed in this part and the owners thereof
shall have executed a written agreement to the appraisals.
(d) The Department will not allow claims arising out of the destruction of animals, eggs, or materials which have been moved or handled by the owner thereof or its officer, employee, or agent, acting within the scope of his or its office, employment or agency, in violation of a law or regulation administered by the Secretary for the prevention of the introduction into or the dissemination within the United States of any communicable disease of livestock or poultry for which the animal or material was destroyed, or in violation of a law or regulation for the enforcement of which the Secretary enters or has entered into a cooperative agreement for the control and eradication of such disease.
(e) The Department will not allow claims arising out of the destruction of fish due to infectious salmon anemia (ISA) unless the claimants have agreed in writing to participate fully in the cooperative ISA control program administered by APHIS and the State of Maine. Participants in the ISA control program must:
(1) Establish and maintain a veterinary client-patient relationship with an APHIS accredited veterinarian and inform the ISA Program Veterinarian in writing of the name of their accredited veterinarian at the time the participant enrolls in the ISA program and within 15 days of any change in accredited veterinarians.
(2) Cooperate with and assist in periodic on-site disease surveillance, testing, and reporting activities for ISA, which will be conducted by their APHIS accredited veterinarian or a State or Federal official as directed by the ISA Program Veterinarian.
(3) Develop and implement biosecurity protocols for use at all participant-leased finfish sites and participant-operated vessels engaged in aquaculture operations throughout Maine. A copy of these protocols shall be submitted to the ISA Program Veterinarian at the time the participant enrolls in the ISA program and within 15 days of any change in the protocols.
(4) Develop, with the involvement of the participant's accredited veterinarian and the fish site health manager, a site-specific ISA action plan for the control and management of ISA. A copy of the action plan shall be submitted to APHIS for review at the time the participant enrolls in the ISA program and within 15 days of any change in the action plan.
(5) Participate in the State of Maine's integrated pest management (IPM) program for the control of sea lice on salmonids. A copy of the management plan developed by the participant for the State IPM program shall be submitted to APHIS for review at the time the participant enrolls in the ISA program and within 15 days of any change in the management plan.
(6) Submit to the ISA Program Veterinarian at the time the participant enrolls in the ISA program a complete and current fish inventory information for each participant-leased finfish site with site and cage identifiers. Fish inventory information must include the numbers, age, date of saltwater transfer, vaccination status, and previous therapeutant history for all fish in each participant-leased finfish site.
(7) Maintain, and make available to the ISA Program Veterinarian upon request, mortality data for each participant-leased finfish site and pen in production.
(8) Cooperate with and assist APHIS in the completion of biosecurity audits at all participant-leased finfish sites and participant-operated vessels involved in salmonid aquaculture.
(f) The Department will not allow claims arising out of the destruction of fish due to spring viremia of carp (SVC) unless the claimants have done the following:
(1) Depopulated all SVC-infected and SVC-exposed fish on their property under the supervision of USDA or State officials;
(2) Thoroughly cleaned and disinfected all affected sites and all affected equipment under the supervision of USDA or State officials;
(3) If an affected site is to be restocked after cleaning and disinfection, the claimant must have done the following:
(i) Restocked with fish certified free of SVC by an APHIS-approved laboratory or in accordance with the diagnostic procedures described in the Office of International des Epizooties Manual of Diagnostic Tests For Aquatic Animals;
(ii) Demonstrated that their water sources are from first-use spring water, spring water without fish, well water, ozone or ultraviolet treated surface water, or bore-hole water and are free of wild carp and any other SVC-susceptible species; and
(iii) Prevented the migration of wild carp and any other wild SVC-susceptible species into their farming establishment.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0192)
(g)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the Department will not allow claims arising out of the destruction of poultry or eggs destroyed due to an outbreak of highly pathogenic avian influenza unless the following conditions apply:
(i)
Approved biosecurity plan.
The owner of the poultry or eggs and, if applicable, any party that enters into a contract with the owner to grow or care for the poultry or eggs, had in place, at the time of detection of highly pathogenic avian influenza, and was following a poultry biosecurity plan that meets the requirements of § 53.11(e).
(ii)
Buffer zone movement audit.
For indemnity claims for poultry moved onto a premises located in a buffer zone of a control area for highly pathogenic avian influenza, the premises receiving the poultry must pass a biosecurity audit conducted in accordance with § 53.11(f)(1)(i) prior to the movement of poultry onto the premises; unless the premises receiving the poultry passed a biosecurity audit within the preceding six (6) months.
Provided,
that the Administrator may, upon request by a producer and upon his or her determination that such action will not result in the dissemination of highly pathogenic avian influenza within the United States, allow a premises to pass a biosecurity audit in accordance with § 53.11(f)(1)(i) after the placement of poultry onto the premises. The producer must make such a request in writing and state in the request all the facts and reasons justifying the request. If the request is denied, the premises must pass a biosecurity audit in accordance with § 53.11(f)(1)(i) prior to the placement of poultry onto the premises to be eligible to receive future indemnity payment if the poultry is later infected with highly pathogenic avian influenza.
(iii)
Previously infected premises audit.
For indemnity claims for poultry moved onto any premises that was previously infected with highly pathogenic avian influenza during the same outbreak, the premises must pass a biosecurity audit conducted in accordance with § 53.11(f)(1)(ii) prior to the movement of poultry onto the premises; unless the movement occurs after the United States declares freedom from highly pathogenic avian influenza. In addition, all previously infected premises must pass virtually conducted biosecurity audits every six (6) months until the State in which the premises is located declares freedom from highly pathogenic avian influenza.
(2) Owners and contractors are exempted from the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section if the facilities where the poultry or eggs are raised or cared for falls under one of the following categories:
(i) Commercial table-egg laying premises with fewer than 75,000 birds;
(ii) Egg-type game bird and egg-type waterfowl premises with fewer than 25,000 birds.
(iii) Premises on which fewer than 100,000 broilers are raised annually; and
(iv) Premises on which fewer than 30,000 meat turkeys are raised annually.
(3) Notwithstanding the conditions in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section, the Department will not pay claims arising out of the destruction of poultry destroyed due to an outbreak of highly pathogenic avian influenza if the poultry was moved onto a premises in an infected zone and if the poultry becomes infected with HPAI within 14 days following the dissolution of the
control area in which the infected zone is located.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0440)
[28 FR 5935, June 13, 1963, as amended at 45 FR 86411, Dec. 31, 1980; 56 FR 51974; 67 FR 17611, Apr. 11, 2002; 69 FR 27827, May 17, 2004; 81 FR 6750, Feb. 9, 2016; 83 FR 40438, Aug. 15, 2018; 89 FR 106995, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 53.11
Highly pathogenic avian influenza; conditions for payment.
(a) When poultry or eggs have been destroyed pursuant to this part, the Administrator may pay claims to any party with whom the owner of the poultry or eggs has entered into a contract for the growing or care of the poultry or eggs. The indemnity the Administrator may pay to such a party or parties shall be determined as by the following method:
(1) Divide the value in dollars of the contract the owner entered into with the contractor by the duration in days of the contract as it was signed prior to the highly pathogenic avian influenza outbreak;
(2) Multiply this figure by the time in days between the date the contractor began to provide services relating to the destroyed poultry or eggs under the contract and the date the poultry or eggs were destroyed due to highly pathogenic avian influenza.
(b) If a contractor receiving indemnity under this section has received any payment under his or her contract from the owner of the poultry or eggs at the time the poultry or eggs are destroyed, the amount of indemnity for which the contractor is eligible will be reduced by the amount of the payment the contractor has already received.
(c) If indemnity is paid to a contractor under this section, the owner of the poultry or eggs will be eligible to receive the difference between the indemnity paid to the contractors and the total amount of indemnity that may be paid for the poultry or eggs.
(d) In the event that determination of indemnity due a contractor using the method described in paragraph (a) of this section is determined to be impractical or inappropriate, APHIS may use any other method that the Administrator deems appropriate to make that determination.
(e)(1) The owner and, if applicable, the contractor, unless exempted under § 53.10(g)(2), must have a poultry biosecurity plan that is approved by the Administrator. Approved biosecurity principles are listed in the NPIP Program Standards, as defined in § 147.51 of this chapter. Alternative biosecurity principles may also be approved by the Administrator in accordance with § 147.53(d)(2) of this chapter.
(2)(i) The biosecurity plan shall be audited at least once every 2 years or a sufficient number of times during that period to satisfy the owner and/or contractor's Official State Agency that the plan is in compliance with the biosecurity principles contained in the NPIP Program Standards. The audit will include, but may not be limited to, a review of the biosecurity plan, as well as documentation that it is being implemented.
(ii) To be recognized as being in compliance with the biosecurity principles and eligible for indemnity, owners and contractors who fail the initial audit conducted by the NPIP Official State Agency must have a check audit performed by a team appointed by National NPIP Office and must demonstrate that they have implemented applicable biosecurity measures. The team will consist of an APHIS poultry subject matter expert, the Official State Agency, and a licensed, accredited, industry poultry veterinarian.
(f)(1) The Department requires that a biosecurity audit be conducted by an auditing team comprised of an auditor and a reviewer using the biosecurity audit tool available at
https://www.aphis.usda.gov/sites/default/files/biosecurityaudit.pdf.
The auditor makes the initial determination of whether a premises passes a biosecurity audit and will be a State employee. If the State lacks the human resources to fill the position, an APHIS employee can fill the position. The reviewer makes the final determination of whether a premises passes a biosecurity audit and will be an APHIS employee. The audit will be conducted as follows:
(i) Biosecurity audits for premises in a buffer zone as described in § 53.10(g)(1)(ii), shall be conducted virtually by an auditor unless the State Animal Health Official, in the State
where the premises is located, requests an in-person audit.
(ii) Biosecurity audits for previously infected premises as described in § 53.10(g)(1)(iii), shall be conducted in-person by an auditor unless the State Animal Health Official determines that extenuating circumstances warrant a virtual audit instead. Extenuating circumstances include, but are not limited to, severe adverse weather conditions, employee safety considerations, and lack of necessary equipment on the premises to conduct a virtual audit.
(2) To assist auditors in conducting the biosecurity audit, producers must allow auditors access to their premises and access to documentation to review and verify whether the premises meets the minimum requirements of the biosecurity audit criteria described in the biosecurity audit tool. A premises will initially pass a biosecurity audit if the auditor determines that the minimum requirements are met for all biosecurity audit criteria in the biosecurity audit tool. Auditors will communicate all identified deficiencies to producers and collaborate, where appropriate, to identify solutions to resolve the identified deficiencies. Producers must provide timelines to auditors for remediation of all identified deficiencies. Auditors will submit the audit package to a reviewer based in the State where the premises is located.
(3) The reviewer will review the audit package for completeness, accuracy, and consistency with other audits and render a final audit determination of pass or fail. The reviewer must be afforded the same access to the premises previously afforded to the auditor, if requested.
(4) If the producer disagrees with the final audit determination, the producer may send a request for reconsideration to
APHIS.HPAI.BCAP.audits@usda.gov
or by postal mail to: Biosecurity Audit Reconsideration, 920 Main Campus Drive, Raleigh, NC 27606. The request for reconsideration must be in writing, state all the facts and reasons upon which the producer relies to show that the producer wrongfully failed the biosecurity audit, and be received by the Biosecurity Compliance Audit Program Manager within 14 calendar days of communication of the reviewer's final audit determination. After receipt of the reconsideration request, the process proceeds as follows:
(i) The Biosecurity Compliance Audit Program Manager will review the reconsideration request, the audit package prepared by the auditor, and the reviewer's final audit determination. If the Biosecurity Compliance Audit Program Manager determines that the producer wrongfully failed the biosecurity audit, he or she will change the final audit determination from fail to pass. The auditor will notify the producer of the change in writing, and the Biosecurity Compliance Audit Program Manager will close the reconsideration request. If the Biosecurity Compliance Audit Program Manager agrees that the producer failed the biosecurity audit, the reconsideration process will continue to a panel review.
(ii) A panel consisting of the State Animal Health Official of the State where the premises is located, the APHIS Area Veterinarian in Charge, and the Biosecurity Compliance Audit Program Manager will review the reconsideration request, the audit package prepared by the auditor, and the reviewer's final audit determination. The panel's decision is final and will be communicated to the producer as promptly as circumstances allow and will state, in writing, the reasons for the decision.
(5) A final audit determination of pass for a premises that had a biosecurity audit conducted in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section will be valid for six (6) months, unless the premises changes its poultry biosecurity plan, biosecurity coordinator, ownership, or infrastructure. If such premises makes any of the aforementioned changes, the premises must pass a new biosecurity audit conducted in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable, prior to the movement of poultry onto the premises.
(6) The biosecurity audit tool referenced in paragraph (f)(1) of this section will be reviewed by APHIS on an annual basis and revised as follows:
(i)
Standard process for revising the biosecurity audit tool.
If the Administrator determines that revisions to the biosecurity audit tool are necessary,
APHIS will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
advising the public of the Administrator' determination. The notice will describe the proposed revisions and the reasons for the proposed revisions and will invite public comment on the proposed revisions.
(ii)
Immediate process for revising the biosecurity audit tool.
If the Administrator determines that the biosecurity audit tool is no longer sufficient for auditors to use to conduct biosecurity audits pursuant to paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, APHIS will immediately update the biosecurity audit tool. APHIS will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
advising the public of the Administrator's determination. The notice will specify the revisions and the reasons for the revisions, provide an effective date for the revisions, and will invite public comment on the revisions.
(g) Proposed updates to the NPIP Program Standards will be announced to the public through a
Federal Register
notice, as described in § 147.53(e) of this chapter.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0440)
[81 FR 6750, Feb. 9, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 40438, Aug. 15, 2018; 89 FR 106995, Dec. 31, 2024]
Pt. 54

# PART 54—CONTROL OF SCRAPIE
Sec.
54.1
Definitions.
54.2
Cooperative agreements and memoranda of understanding with States.

# Subpart A—Scrapie Indemnification Program
54.3
Animals eligible for indemnity payments.
54.4
Application by owners for indemnity payments.
54.5
Certification by owners.
54.6
Amount of indemnity payments.
54.7
Procedures for destruction of animals.
54.8
Requirements for flocks under investigation and flocks subject to flock plans and post-exposure management and monitoring plans.
54.9
Waiver of requirements for scrapie control pilot projects.
54.10
Program approval of tests for scrapie.
54.11
Approval of laboratories to run official scrapie tests and official genotype tests.

# Subpart B—Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program
54.20
Administration.
54.21
Participation.
54.22
State scrapie certification boards.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8301-8317; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.4.

# Source:
66 FR 43982, Aug. 21, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 54.1
Definitions.
Accredited veterinarian.
A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with part 161 of this chapter to perform functions specified in subchapters B, C, and D of this chapter.
Administrator.
The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or any employee of the United States Department of Agriculture authorized to act for the Administrator.
Animal.
A sheep or goat.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).
The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
APHIS representative.
An individual employed by APHIS in animal health activities who is authorized by the Administrator to perform the function involved.
Approved laboratory.
A laboratory approved by the Administrator in accordance with § 54.11 to conduct one or more scrapie tests, or genotype tests, on one or more tissues.
Area veterinarian in charge.
The veterinary official of APHIS who is assigned by the Administrator to supervise and perform the official animal health work of APHIS in the State concerned.
Breed association and registries.
Organizations that maintain the permanent records of ancestry or pedigrees of animals (including the animal's sire and dam), individual identification of animals, and ownership of animals.
Classification or reclassification investigation.
An epidemiological investigation conducted or directed by a DSE for the purpose of designating or redesignating the status (
e.g.,
scrapie-positive, exposed, high-risk, suspect, infected, noncompliant, source, etc.) of a flock or animal. In conducting such an
investigation, the DSE will evaluate the available records for flocks and individual animals and conduct or direct any testing needed to assess the status of a flock or animal. The status of an animal or flock will be determined based on the applicable definitions in this section and, when needed to make a designation under § 79.4 of this chapter, official genotype test results, exposure risk, scrapie type involved, results of official scrapie testing on live or dead animals, or any combination of these.
Commingle, commingled, commingling.
Animals grouped together and having physical contact with each other, including contact through a fence, but not limited contacts. Commingling also includes sharing the same section in a transportation unit where there is physical contact.
Designated scrapie epidemiologist DSE.
An epidemiologist who has demonstrated the knowledge and ability to perform the functions required and who has been selected by the State animal health official and the area veterinarian in charge. The regional epidemiologist and the APHIS National Scrapie Program Coordinator must concur in the selection and appointment of the designated scrapie epidemiologist. The designated scrapie epidemiologist must satisfactorily complete training designated by APHIS.
Destroyed.
Euthanized and the carcass disposed of by means authorized by the Administrator that will prevent its use as feed or food.
Electronic implant.
Any radio frequency identification implant device approved for use in the scrapie program by the Administrator. The Administrator will approve an electronic implant after determining that it is tamper resistant, not harmful to the animal, and readable by equipment available to APHIS and State representatives.
Exposed animal.
Any animal or embryo that:
(1) Has been in a flock with a scrapie-positive female animal;
(2) Has been in an enclosure with a scrapie-positive female animal at any location;
(3) Resides in a noncompliant flock; or
(4) Has resided on the premises of a flock before or while it was designated by a DSE an infected or source flock and before a flock plan was completed. An animal shall not be designated an exposed animal if it only resided on the premises before the date that infection was most likely introduced to the premises as determined by a Federal or State representative. If the probable date of infection cannot be determined based on the epidemiologic investigation, a date 2 years before the birth of the oldest scrapie-positive animal born in that flock will be used. If the actual birth date is unknown, the date of birth will be estimated based on examination of the teeth and any available records. If an age estimate cannot be made, the animal will be assumed to have been 48 months of age on the date samples were collected for scrapie diagnosis. Exposed animals will be further designated as genetically resistant exposed sheep, genetically less susceptible exposed sheep, genetically susceptible exposed animals, or low-risk exposed animals. An animal will no longer be an exposed animal if it is redesignated in accordance with § 79.4 of this chapter.
Exposed flock.
(1) Any flock that was designated by a DSE as an infected or source flock that has completed a flock plan, and that retained a female genetically susceptible exposed animal;
(2) Any flock under investigation that retains a female genetically susceptible exposed animal or a suspect animal, or whose owner declines to complete genotyping and live-animal and/or post-mortem scrapie testing required by the APHIS or State representative investigating the flock; or
(3) Any noncompliant flock or any flock for which a PEMMP is required that is not in compliance with the conditions of the PEMMP.
Flock.
All animals that are maintained on a single premises and all animals under common ownership or supervision on two or more premises with animal interchange between the premises. Changes in ownership of part or all of a flock do not change the identity of the flock or the regulatory requirements applicable to the flock.
Animals maintained temporarily on a premises for activities such as shows and sales or while in marketing channels are not a flock. More than one flock may be maintained on a single premises if:
(1) The flocks are enrolled as separate flocks in the SFCP; or
(2) A State or APHIS representative determines, based upon examination of flock records, that:
(i) There is no interchange of animals between the flocks;
(ii) The flocks never commingle and are kept at least 30 feet apart at all times or are separated by a solid wall through, over, or under which fluids cannot pass and through which contact cannot occur;
(iii) The flocks have separate flock records and identification;
(iv) The flocks have separate lambing facilities, including buildings and pastures, and a pasture or building used for lambing by one flock is not used by the other flock at any time; and
(v) The flocks do not share equipment without cleaning and disinfection in accordance with § 54.7(e). Additional guidance on acceptable means of cleaning and disinfection is also available in the Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program standards and the Scrapie Eradication Uniform Methods and Rules.
Flock of origin.
The flock in which an animal most recently resided in which it either was born, gave birth, or was used for breeding purposes. The determination of an animal's flock of origin may be based either on the physical presence of the animal in the flock, the presence of official identification on the animal traceable to the flock, the presence of other identification on the animal that is listed on the bill of sale, or other evidence, such as registry records.
Flock plan.
A written flock management agreement signed by the owner of a flock, the accredited veterinarian, if one is employed by the owner, and a State or APHIS representative in which each participant agrees to undertake actions specified in the flock plan to control the spread of scrapie from, and eradicate scrapie in, an infected flock or source flock or to reduce the risk of the occurrence of scrapie in a flock that contains a high-risk or an exposed animal. As part of a flock plan, the flock owner must provide the facilities and personnel needed to carry out the requirements of the flock plan. The flock plan must include the requirements in § 54.8(a) through (j).
Flock sire.
A sexually intact male animal that has produced offspring in the preceding 12 months or that was used for breeding during the current breeding cycle.
Flock under investigation.
Any flock in which an APHIS or State representative has determined that a scrapie-suspect animal, high-risk animal, or scrapie-positive animal resides or may have resided.
Genetically less susceptible exposed sheep.
Any sheep or sheep embryo that is:
(1) An exposed sheep or sheep embryo of genotype AA QR, unless the Administrator determines that it is epidemiologically linked to a scrapie-positive RR or AA QR sheep or to a scrapie type to which AA QR sheep are not less susceptible; or
(2) An exposed sheep or sheep embryo of genotype AV QR, unless the Administrator determines that it is epidemiologically linked to a scrapie-positive RR or QR sheep, to a flock that the Administrator has determined may be affected by valine-associated scrapie (based on an evaluation of the genotypes of the scrapie-positive animals linked to the flock), or to another scrapie type to which AV QR sheep are not less susceptible; or
(3) An exposed sheep or sheep embryo of a genotype that has been exposed to a scrapie type to which the Administrator has determined that genotype is less susceptible. In this definition R refers to codon 171 and A refers to codon 136, and Q represents any genotype other than R at codon 171 and V represents any genotype other than A at codon 136.
Genetically resistant exposed sheep.
Any exposed sheep or sheep embryo of genotype RR at codon 171 unless the Administrator determines that it is epidemiologically linked to a scrapie-positive RR sheep or to a scrapie type to which RR sheep are not resistant.
Genetically resistant sheep.
Any sheep or sheep embryo of genotype RR at codon 171 unless the Administrator determines that it is epidemiologically linked to a scrapie-positive RR sheep or to a scrapie type that affects RR at codon 171 sheep.
Genetically susceptible animal.
Any goat or goat embryo, sheep or sheep embryo of a genotype other than RR or QR, where Q represents any genotype other than R at codon 171 or sheep or sheep embryo of undetermined genotype.
Genetically susceptible exposed animal.
Excluding low-risk exposed animals, any exposed animal or embryo that is also:
(1) A genetically susceptible animal; or
(2) A sheep or sheep embryo of genotype AV QR that the Administrator determines is epidemiologically linked to a scrapie-positive RR or QR sheep, to a flock that the Administrator has determined may be affected by valine-associated scrapie (based on an evaluation of the genotypes of the scrapie-positive animals linked to the flock), or to a scrapie type to which AV QR sheep are susceptible; or
(3) A sheep or sheep embryo of genotype AA QR that the Administrator determines is epidemiologically linked to a scrapie-positive RR or AA QR sheep or to a scrapie type to which AA QR sheep are susceptible; or
(4) A sheep or sheep embryo of genotype RR that the Administrator determines is epidemiologically linked to a scrapie-positive RR sheep or to a scrapie type to which RR sheep are susceptible.
(5)
Note:
In this definition R refers to codon 171 and A refers to codon 136, and Q represents any genotype other than R at codon 171 and V represents any genotype other than A at codon 136.
High-risk animal.
The female offspring or embryo of a scrapie-positive female animal, or any suspect animal, or a female genetically susceptible exposed animal, or any exposed animal that the Administrator determines to be a potential risk. The Administrator may base the determination that an exposed animal poses a potential risk on the scrapie type, the epidemiology of the flock or flocks with which it is epidemiologically linked, including genetics of the positive sheep, the prevalence of scrapie in the flock, any history of recurrent infection, and other flock or animal characteristics. An animal will no longer be a high-risk animal if it is redesignated in accordance with § 79.4 of this chapter.
Infected flock.
The flock of origin of a female animal that a State or APHIS representative has determined to be a scrapie-positive animal; or any flock in which a State or APHIS representative has determined that a scrapie-positive female animal has resided unless an epidemiologic investigation conducted by a State or APHIS representative shows that the animal did not lamb or abort in the flock. A flock will no longer be considered an infected flock after it has completed the requirements of a flock plan.
Interstate certificate of veterinary inspection (ICVI).
An official document issued by a Federal, State, Tribal, or accredited veterinarian certifying the inspection of animals in preparation for interstate movement or other uses as described in this part and in accordance with § 79.5 of this chapter.
Limited contacts.
Incidental contacts between animals from different flocks off the flock's premises such as at fairs, shows, exhibitions and sales; between ewes being inseminated, flushed, or implanted; or between rams at ram test or collection stations. Embryo transfer and artificial insemination equipment and surgical tools must be sterilized between animals for these contacts to be considered limited contacts. Limited contacts do not include any contact, incidental or otherwise, with animals in the same flock or with a female animal during or up to 30 days after she lambed, kidded or aborted or when there is any visible vaginal discharge. Limited contacts do not include any activity where uninhibited contact occurs, such as sharing an enclosure, sharing a section of a transport vehicle, or residing in other flocks for breeding or other purposes. Examples of limited contacts may be found in the Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program standards.
Live-animal screening test.
Any test for the diagnosis of scrapie in a live animal that is approved by the Administrator as usually reliable but not definitive for diagnosing scrapie, and that is conducted in a laboratory approved by the Administrator.
1
1
The names and addresses of laboratories approved by the Administrator to conduct live-animal screening tests will be published in the Notices Section of the
Federal Register.
A list of approved laboratories is also available upon request from the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Veterinary Services, National Animal Health Programs Staff, 4700 River Road Unit 43, Riverdale, MD 20737-1235. State, Federal, and university laboratories will be approved by the Administrator when he or she determines that the laboratory: (a) Employs personnel trained by the National Veterinary Services Laboratories assigned to supervise the testing; (b) follows standard test protocols; (c) meets check test proficiency requirements; and (d) will report all test results to State and Federal animal health officials. Before the Administrator may withdraw approval of any laboratory for failure to meet any of these conditions, the Administrator must give written notice of the proposed withdrawal to the director of the laboratory and must give the director an opportunity to respond. If there are conflicts as to any material fact, a hearing will be held to resolve the conflicts.
Low-risk exposed animal.
Any exposed animal to which the Administrator has determined one or more of the following applies:
(1) The positive animal that was the source of exposure was not born in the flock and did not lamb in the flock or in an enclosure where the exposed animal resided;
(2) The Administrator and State representative concur that the animal is unlikely to be infected due to factors such as, but not limited to, where the animal resided or the time period the animal resided in the flock;
(3) The exposed animal is male and was not born in an infected or source flock;
(4) The exposed animal is a castrated male;
(5) The exposed animal is an embryo of a genetically resistant exposed sheep or a genetically less susceptible exposed sheep unless placed in a recipient that was a genetically susceptible exposed animal; or
(6) The animal was exposed to a scrapie type and/or is of a genotype that the Administrator has determined poses low risk of scrapie transmission.
Mortgage.
Any mortgage, lien, or other security or interest held by any person other than the one claiming indemnity.
National Scrapie Database.
A database designated by the Administrator in which APHIS and State animal health agencies cooperatively enter data concerning scrapie outbreaks, flocks and premises affected by scrapie, individual animal identification and premises identification data, and other data to support the Scrapie Eradication Program and the Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program.
National Veterinary Services Laboratories (NVSL).
The National Veterinary Services Laboratories, APHIS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or an NVSL cooperating or contract laboratory.
Noncompliant flock.
(1) Any source, infected, or exposed flock or flock under investigation whose owner declines to enter into a flock plan or post-exposure management and monitoring plan agreement within 30 days of being so designated, or whose owner is not in compliance with either agreement;
(2) Any exposed flock or flock under investigation whose owner fails to make animals available for testing within 60 days of notification, or as mutually agreed, or whose owner fails to submit required postmortem samples;
(3) Any flock whose owner has misrepresented, or who employs a person who has misrepresented, the scrapie status of an animal or any other information on a certificate, permit, owner/hauler statement, or other official document within the last 5 years; or
(4) Any flock whose owner or manager has moved, or who employs a person who has moved, an animal in violation of this chapter within the last 5 years.
Official genotype test.
A test to determine the genotype of a live or dead animal conducted at either the National Veterinary Services Laboratories or at
an approved laboratory. The test subject must be an animal that is officially identified and the test accurately recorded on an official form supplied or approved by APHIS, with the samples collected and shipped to the laboratory using a shipping method specified by the laboratory by:
(1) An accredited veterinarian;
(2) A State or APHIS representative; or
(3) The animal's owner or owner's agent, using a tamper-resistant sampling kit approved by APHIS for this purpose.
Official test.
Any test for the diagnosis of scrapie in a live or dead animal that is approved by the Administrator for that use and conducted either at an approved laboratory or at the National Veterinary Services Laboratories.
Owner.
A person, partnership, company, corporation, or any other legal entity who has legal or rightful title to animals, whether or not they are subject to a mortgage.
Post-exposure management and monitoring plan.
A written agreement signed by the owner of a flock, any accredited veterinarian employed by the owner, and a State or APHIS representative in which each participant agrees to undertake actions specified in the agreement to monitor for the occurrence of scrapie in the flock for at least 5 years after the last high-risk or scrapie-positive animal is removed from the flock or after the last exposure of the flock to a scrapie-positive animal, unless otherwise specified by a State or APHIS representative. As part of a post-exposure management and monitoring plan, the flock owner must provide the facilities and personnel needed to carry out the requirements of the plan. The plan must include the requirements in § 54.8.
Program approved test.
A test for the diagnosis of scrapie approved by the Administrator for use in the scrapie eradication or certification program in accordance with § 54.10.
Restricted animal sale or restricted livestock facility.
A sale where any animals in slaughter channels are maintained separate from other animals not in slaughter channels unless they are from the same flock of origin and are sold in lots that consist entirely of animals sold for slaughter only, or a livestock facility at which all animals are in slaughter channels, and where the sale or facility manager maintains a copy of, or maintains a record of, the information from the owner/hauler statement for all animals entering and leaving the sale or facility. A restricted animal sale may be held at a livestock facility that is not restricted.
Scrapie control pilot project.
A pilot project authorized by the Administrator in writing, designed to test or improve program procedures or to facilitate research, in order to control and eradicate scrapie. In addition to APHIS, participants may include State animal health agencies, flock owners, and other parties as necessary.
Scrapie Eradication Program.
The cooperative State-Federal program administered by APHIS and Consistent States to control and eradicate scrapie.
Scrapie Eradication Uniform Methods and Rules (UM
R).
Cooperative procedures and standards adopted by APHIS and Consistent States for controlling and eradicating scrapie. The UM
R will be reviewed at least annually by representatives of the livestock industry and appropriate State and Federal agencies and the public and will be revised, and published as needed by APHIS.
Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program (SFCP).
The cooperative Federal-State-industry voluntary program for the control of scrapie conducted in accordance with this subpart.
Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program standards.
Cooperative procedures and standards adopted by APHIS and State scrapie certification boards for reducing the incidence and controlling the spread of scrapie through flock certification.
2
2
Individual copies of the Scrapie Flock Certification Program standards may be obtained on the World Wide Web at URL
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/animal-health/scrapie,
or from the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, National Animal Health Programs Staff, 4700 River Road Unit 43, Riverdale, MD 20737-1235.
Scrapie-positive animal.
An animal for which a diagnosis of scrapie has been made by the National Veterinary Services Laboratories or another laboratory authorized by the Administrator
to conduct scrapie tests in accordance with this part, through:
(1) Histopathological examination of central nervous system (CNS) tissues from the animal for characteristic microscopic lesions of scrapie;
(2) The use of proteinase-resistant protein analysis methods including but not limited to immunohistochemistry, and/or ELISA, and/or western blotting on CNS and/or peripheral tissue samples from a live or a dead animal for which a given method has been approved by the Administrator for use on that tissue;
(3) Bioassay;
(4) Scrapie associated fibrils (SAF) detected by electron microscopy; or
(5) Any other method or combination of methods approved by the Administrator in accordance with § 54.10.
3
3
The names and addresses of laboratories approved by the Administrator to conduct tests are published in the Notices Section of the
Federal Register.
A list of approved laboratories is also available upon request from the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Veterinary Services, National Animal Health Programs Staff, 4700 River Road Unit 43, Riverdale, MD 20737-1235. State, Federal, and university laboratories will be approved by the Administrator when he or she determines that the laboratory: (a) Employs personnel trained by the National Veterinary Services Laboratories assigned to supervise the testing; (b) follows standard test protocols; (c) meets check test proficiency requirements; and (d) will report all test results to State and Federal animal health officials. Before the Administrator may withdraw approval of any laboratory for failure to meet any of these conditions, the Administrator must give written notice of the proposed withdrawal to the director of the laboratory and must give the director an opportunity to respond. If there are conflicts as to any material fact, a hearing will be held to resolve the conflict.
Slaughter channels.
Animals in slaughter channels include any animal that is sold, transferred, or moved either directly to or through a restricted animal sale or restricted livestock facility to an official slaughter establishment that is under Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) jurisdiction per the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA) or under State inspection that FSIS has recognized as at least equal to Federal inspection or to a custom exempt slaughter establishment as defined by FSIS (9 CFR 303.1) for immediate slaughter or to an individual for immediate slaughter for personal use or to a terminal feedlot.
Source flock.
A flock in which a State or APHIS representative has determined that at least one animal was born that was diagnosed as a scrapie-positive animal at an age of 72 months or less. The determination that an animal was born in a flock will be based on such information as the presence of official identification on the animal traceable to the flock, the presence of other identification on the animal that is listed on the bill of sale, or other evidence, such as registry records, to show that a scrapie-positive animal was born in the flock, combined with the absence of records indicating that the animal was purchased from outside and added to the flock. If DNA from the animal was previously collected by an accredited veterinarian and stored at an approved genotyping laboratory, or if DNA collection and storage are required for breed registration and the breed registration has appropriate safeguards in place to ensure the integrity of the banking process, the owner may request verification of the animal's identity based on DNA comparison if adequate records and identification have been maintained by the owner and the repository to show that the archived DNA is that of the animal that has been traced to the flock. The owner will be responsible for all costs for the DNA comparison. A flock will no longer be a source flock after it has completed the requirements of a flock plan.
State.
Each of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and all territories or possessions of the United States.
State representative.
An individual employed in animal health activities by a State or a political subdivision of a State and who is authorized by the State or political subdivision to perform the function involved.
Suspect animal.
An animal will be designated a suspect animal in accordance with § 79.4 of this chapter if it is:
(1) A mature sheep or goat as evidenced by eruption of the first incisor that has been condemned by FSIS or a
State inspection authority for central nervous system (CNS) signs, or that exhibits any of the following clinical signs of scrapie and has been determined to be suspicious for scrapie by an accredited veterinarian or a State or USDA representative, based on one or more of the following signs and the severity of the signs: Weakness of any kind including, but not limited to, stumbling, falling down, or having difficulty rising, not including those with visible traumatic injuries and no other signs of scrapie; behavioral abnormalities; significant weight loss despite retention of appetite or in an animal with adequate dentition; increased sensitivity to noise and sudden movement; tremors; star gazing; head pressing; bilateral gait abnormalities such as but not limited to incoordination, ataxia, high stepping gait of forelimbs, bunny-hop movement of rear legs, or swaying of back end, but not including abnormalities involving only one leg or one front and one back leg; repeated intense rubbing with bare areas or damaged wool in similar locations on both sides of the animal's body or, if on the head, both sides of the poll; abraded, rough, thickened, or hyperpigmented areas of skin in areas of wool/hair loss in similar locations on both sides of the animal's body or, if on the head, both sides of the poll; or other signs of CNS disease. An animal will no longer be a suspect animal if it is redesignated in accordance with § 79.4 of this chapter.
(2) A sheep or goat that has tested positive for scrapie or for the proteinase resistant protein associated with scrapie on a live-animal screening test or any other test, unless the animal is designated a scrapie-positive animal.
(3) A sheep or goat that has tested inconclusive or suggestive on an official test for scrapie.
Tamper-resistant sampling kit.
A device or method for collecting DNA samples from sheep or goats that is approved by the Administrator and that identifies both the sample and the animal at the time the sample is collected. These devices or methods must ensure that the sample, its corresponding label, and the official ID device or method applied to the animal meets the requirements of § 79.2(k) of this chapter and that the sample is from the same animal to which the official ID device or method was applied. The kit must include an APHIS-approved official form or another form, device, or method acceptable to APHIS for transmitting the information required to APHIS and the approved laboratory.
Terminal feedlot.
(1) A dry lot approved by a State or APHIS representative or an accredited veterinarian who is authorized by the Administrator to perform this function where animals in the terminal feedlot are separated from all other animals by at least 30 feet at all times or are separated by a solid wall through, over, or under which fluids cannot pass and contact cannot occur and must be cleaned of all organic material prior to being used to contain sheep or goats that are not in slaughter channels, where only castrated males are maintained with female animals and from which animals are moved only to another terminal feedlot or directly to slaughter; or
(2) A dry lot approved by a State or APHIS representative or an accredited veterinarian who is authorized by the Administrator to perform this function where only animals that either are not pregnant based on the animal being male, an owner certification that any female animals have not been exposed to a male in the preceding 6 months, an ICVI issued by an accredited veterinarian stating the animals are not pregnant, or the animals are under 6 months of age at time of receipt, where only castrated males are maintained with female animals, and all animals in the terminal feedlot are separated from all other animals such that physical contact cannot occur including through a fence and from which animals are moved only to another terminal feedlot or directly to slaughter; or
(3) A pasture when approved by and maintained under the supervision of the State and in which only nonpregnant animals are permitted based on the animal being male, an owner certification that any female animals have not been exposed to a male in the preceding 6 months, or an ICVI issued by an accredited veterinarian stating the animals are not pregnant, or the
animals are under 6 months of age at time of receipt, where only castrated males are maintained with female animals, where there is no direct fence-to-fence contact with another flock, and from which animals are moved only to another terminal feedlot or directly to slaughter.
(4) Records of all animals entering and leaving a terminal feedlot must be maintained for 5 years after the animal leaves the feedlot and must meet the requirements of § 79.2 of this chapter, including either a copy of the required owner/hauler statements for animals entering and leaving the facility or the information required to be on the statements. Records must be made available for inspection and copying by an APHIS or State representative upon request.
Unofficial test.
Any test for the diagnosis of scrapie or for the detection of the proteinase resistant protein associated with scrapie in a live or dead animal that either has not been approved by the Administrator or that was not conducted at an approved laboratory or at the National Veterinary Services Laboratories.
[66 FR 43982, Aug. 21, 2001, as amended at 84 FR 11179, Mar. 25, 2019]
§ 54.2
Cooperative agreements and memoranda of understanding with States.
APHIS will execute cooperative agreements and/or memoranda of understanding with the animal health agency of any State in order to cooperatively administer the Scrapie Eradication Program and the Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program within that State. These agreements will describe the respective roles of APHIS and State personnel in implementing the Scrapie Eradication Program and the Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program. Each agreement may specify the financial, material, and personnel resources to be committed to these programs and other scrapie control measures by APHIS and the State; assign specific activities related to the control of scrapie within a State to APHIS or State personnel; establish schedules for APHIS representatives or State representatives to visit flocks; establish procedures for maintaining and sharing program records specified in this part, and specify other responsibilities of State representatives and APHIS representatives in support of the Scrapie Eradication Program and the Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0101)
[66 FR 43982, Aug. 21, 2001, as amended at 84 FR 11182, Mar. 25, 2019]

# Subpart A—Scrapie Indemnification Program
§ 54.3
Animals eligible for indemnity payments.
(a) Indemnity may be paid for an animal only after the owner of the animal has applied for indemnification and been approved in accordance with § 54.4. Indemnity may be paid only for the following:
(1) Destruction of high-risk animals;
(2) Destruction of animals based on an epidemiologic investigation, when the Administrator determines that the destruction of these animals will contribute to the eradication of scrapie;
(3) Destruction of live scrapie-positive animals;
(4) Destruction of animals that test positive on a live-animal screening test; and
(5) Destruction of suspect animals that are destroyed at the request of an APHIS representative.
(b) Indemnity will be paid to an owner only for animals actually in a flock at the time indemnity is first offered in writing, and for offspring born to animals in that flock within 60 days after the time indemnity is first offered in writing. Animals removed from the flock as part of an investigation or a post-exposure management and monitoring plan (PEMMP) will be paid indemnity based on the calculated prices at the time an APHIS representative designates, in writing, the animals for removal. If an owner declines to remove an animal within 60 days of when indemnity is first offered the owner will receive the lower value of when indemnity was first offered in writing or when the animal was actually removed. APHIS may withdraw an indemnity offer if an owner does not
make animals available for inventory, gestational assessment, and testing within 30 days, does not remove an animal within 60 days of the written indemnity offer or by the date specified in a flock plan or PEMMP, or fails to provide APHIS animal registration certificates, sale and movement records, or other records requested in accordance with § 54.5. No indemnity will be paid for any animal, or the progeny of any animal, that has been moved or handled by the owner in violation of the requirements of the Animal Health Protection Act or the regulations promulgated thereunder. No indemnity will be paid for an animal added to the premises while a flock is under investigation or while it is an infected or source flock other than natural additions. No indemnity will be paid for natural additions born more than 60 days after the owner is notified they are eligible for indemnity unless the Administrator makes a determination that the dam could not be removed within the allowed time as a result of conditions outside the control of the owner. No indemnity will be paid unless the owner has signed and is in compliance with the requirements of a flock plan or post-exposure management and monitoring plan (PEMMP) as described in § 54.8 unless the requirement for a flock plan or PEMMP has been waived by the Administrator. No indemnity will be paid until the premises, including all structures, holding facilities, conveyances, and materials contaminated because of occupation or use by the depopulated animals, have been properly cleaned and disinfected in accordance with § 54.7(e), unless premises or portions of premises have been exempted from the cleaning and disinfecting requirements per § 54.8(j)(1); Except that, partial indemnity may be paid when the Administrator determines that weather or other factors outside the control of the owner make immediate disinfection impractical. No indemnity will be paid to an owner for any animals if the owner established or increased his flock for the purpose of collecting or increasing indemnity.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0101)
[66 FR 43982, Aug. 21, 2001, as amended at 84 FR 11182, Mar. 25, 2019]
§ 54.4
Application by owners for indemnity payments.
(a) Normally, an application for indemnification will be initiated by a State or APHIS representative who is working with the owner of a flock that has already been determined to be an infected flock or source flock, or that is already under a State movement restriction. In such cases, the flock owner will confirm information about the flock's eligibility for indemnity that is contained in the application submitted by the State or APHIS representative. However, the owner of any flock may apply directly to receive indemnification by submitting to the Administrator a written request containing the following information:
(1) Name, address, and social security number of the flock owner;
(2) Number and breed(s) of animals in the flock, including a current inventory;
(3) Location of flock premises;
(4) Reasons the owner believes animals in his or her flock may be eligible for indemnification, including any diagnosis of scrapie made for animals in the flock; any signs of scrapie observed in the flock by the owner; and any movement of animals into the flock from flocks infected with or exposed to scrapie;
(5) A copy of the registration papers issued in the name of the owner for any registered animals in the flock (registration papers are not required for the payment of indemnity for animals that are not registered); and
(6) Signed release letters addressed to any sheep or goat registry associations that maintain records of the owner's sheep or goats requesting the associations to release to APHIS all records maintained by the association on sheep or goats currently or formerly owned by the applicant.
(b) APHIS will evaluate each application to determine whether the owner's
flock contains animals eligible for indemnity in accordance with § 54.3.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0101)
[66 FR 43982, Aug. 21, 2001, as amended at 84 FR 11182, Mar. 25, 2019]
§ 54.5
Certification by owners.
Before any indemnity is paid to an owner, the owner must sign a written agreement with APHIS, certifying the following:
(a) The owner will make available for review upon request by a State or APHIS representative all bills of sale, pedigree registration certificates, and other records regarding movement of animals into and from the flock;
(b) If the owner maintains any flock after the payment of indemnity or acquires a new flock that is housed on the same premises within 5 years after the last high-risk or scrapie-positive animal is removed, the owner will maintain the flock in accordance with a post-exposure management and monitoring plan for 5 years;
(c) If the animal for which indemnity is paid is subject to any mortgage, the owner consents to the payment of the indemnity, up to the value of the mortgage, to the person(s) holding the mortgage;
(d) That the animal may be removed to a U.S. Department of Agriculture facility or a quarantined research facility, or euthanized and necropsied and tissues removed for diagnostic or other purposes.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0101)
[66 FR 43982, Aug. 21, 2001, as amended at 84 FR 11183, Mar. 25, 2019]
§ 54.6
Amount of indemnity payments.
(a)
Indemnity.
Indemnity paid for sheep and goats in accordance with § 54.3 will be the fair market value of the animals. APHIS' determination of fair market value will be based on available price report data that most accurately reflect the type of animal being indemnified and the time at which the animal was indemnified. Premiums will be paid for certain types of sheep and goats, including, but not limited to: Registered animals, flock sires, pregnant animals and early-maturing ewes; Except that, no premium will be added for animals of any age that were in slaughter channels when indemnity was offered. To calculate indemnity, APHIS will use price information provided by the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) or other available price information and any other data necessary to establish the value of different types of sheep and goats. A detailed description of the methods APHIS uses to calculate indemnity for sheep and goats is available at
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/animal-health/scrapie.
(b)
Age and number of animals.
If records and identification are inadequate to determine the actual age of animals, an APHIS or State representative will count all sexually intact animals that are apparently under 1 year of age, and those that are apparently at least 1 and under 2 years of age, based on examination of their teeth, and the indemnity for these animals will be calculated. The total number of these animals will be subtracted from the total number of sexually intact animals in the group to be indemnified, and indemnity for the remainder will be calculated based on the assumption that the remainder of the flock is 80 percent aged 2 to 6 years and 20 percent aged 6 to 8 years.
(c)
Animal weights.
If the owner disagrees with the average weight estimate, he may have the animals weighed at a public scale at his own expense, provided that the animals may not come in contact with other sheep or goats during movement to the public scales, and will be paid based on the actual weight multiplied by the price per pound for the class of animal as calculated in paragraph (a) of this section.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0101)
[84 FR 11183, Mar. 25, 2019]
§ 54.7
Procedures for destruction of animals.
(a) Animals for which indemnification is sought must be destroyed on the premises where they are held, pastured,
or penned at the time indemnity is approved or moved to an approved research facility, unless the APHIS representative involved approves in advance of destruction moving the animals to another location for destruction.
(b) The carcasses of animals destroyed in accordance with this section are authorized by the Administrator to be buried, incinerated, or disposed of by other methods in accordance with local, State, and Federal laws. The carcasses of scrapie-positive and suspect animals may not be processed for human or animal food.
(c) The destruction of animals and disposition of their carcasses in accordance with this part must be monitored by an APHIS representative who will prepare and transmit to the Administrator a report identifying the animals and showing their disposition.
(d) APHIS may pay the reasonable costs of disposal for animals that are indemnified. To obtain reimbursement for disposal costs, animal owners must obtain written approval of the disposal costs from APHIS, prior to disposal. For reimbursement to be made, the owner of the animals must present the Veterinary Services, Field Operations, Area Veterinarian in Charge (AVIC) responsible for the State involved with a copy of either a receipt for expenses paid or a bill for services rendered. Any bill for services rendered by the owner must not be greater than the normal fee for similar services provided by a commercial hauler or disposal facility.
(e)
Cleaning and disinfection of premises and equipment.
When required, cleaning and disinfection shall be conducted under the supervision of a State or APHIS representative as follows. Additional guidance on acceptable means of cleaning and disinfection is also available in the Scrapie Program Standards Volume 1: National Scrapie Eradication Program and Scrapie Program Standards Volume 2: Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program (SFCP):
(1)
Drylot areas.
When required, remove the manure and top 1-2 inches of soil to reduce contamination. Bury, till under, or compost the removed material in areas not accessed by domestic or wild ruminants.
(2)
Cement, wood, metal and other non-earth surfaces, tools, equipment, instruments, feed, hay, bedding, and other materials.
Organic and/or inorganic materials may be disposed of by incineration or burial. Inorganic material and wood structures may be cleaned and disinfected. To disinfect, remove all organic material and incinerate, bury, till under, or compost the removed organic material in areas not accessed by domestic or wild ruminants until it can be incinerated, buried, or tilled under. Clean and wash all surfaces, tools, equipment, and instruments using hot water and detergent. Allow all surfaces, tools, equipment, and instruments to dry completely before disinfecting and sanitizing using one of the following methods:
(i) Autoclave instruments, small tools, and other items at 136 °C for 1 hour;
(ii) To clean dry surfaces, apply a 2-percent chlorine bleach solution at room temperature (at least 18.3 °C for 1 hour, or apply a 1-molar solution of sodium hydroxide (approximately 5 oz. of sodium hydroxide dissolved in l gallon water) at room temperature for at least 1 hour. Note: A 2-molar solution is more effective than a 1-molar solution and should be used when circumstances permit.
(iii) Use a product registered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) specifically for reduction of prion infectivity at these sites in accordance with the label.
(iv) Use a product in accordance with an emergency exemption issued by the EPA for reduction of prion infectivity at these sites.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0469)
[66 FR 43982, Aug. 21, 2001, as amended at 84 FR 11183, Mar. 25, 2019]
§ 54.8
Requirements for flocks under investigation and flocks subject to flock plans and post-exposure management and monitoring plans.
(a) For animals in a flock under investigation, flock plan, or post-exposure management and monitoring plan (PEMMP), the official identification must provide a unique identification number that is applied by the owner of the flock or his or her agent and must
be linked to that flock in the National Scrapie Database. APHIS may specify the type of official identification that may be used in order to maximize retention of the means of identification, identify restricted or test positive animals or to facilitate the testing or inventory of the animals. The owner of the flock or his or her agent must officially identify and maintain the identity of:
(1) All animals in the flock while it is subject to a flock plan or PEMMP;
(2) Any high-risk or genetically susceptible exposed animals in the flock and any other restricted animals;
(3) Any animals designated for testing by an APHIS representative or State representative until testing is completed, results reported, and animals classified; and
(4) All sexually intact animals, all exposed animals, and animals 18 months of age and older (as evidenced by the eruption of the second incisor) prior to a change in ownership and before they are moved off the premises of the flock.
(b) For flocks under a flock plan or PEMMP, the flock owner must maintain the following records for 5 years or until the flock plan and/or PEMMP is completed, whichever is longer.
(1) For acquired animals, the date of acquisition, name and address of the person from whom the animal was acquired, any identifying marks, or identification devices present on the animal including but not limited to the animal's individual official identification number(s) from its electronic implant, flank tattoo, ear tattoo, tamper-resistant eartag, or, in the case of goats, tail fold tattoo, and any secondary form of identification the owner of the flock may choose to maintain and the records required by § 79.2 of this chapter.
(2) For animals leaving the premises of the flock, the disposition of the animal, including, any identifying marks or identification devices present on the animal, including but not limited to the animal's individual official identification number from its electronic implant, flank tattoo, ear tattoo, tamper-resistant eartag, or, in the case of goats, a tail fold tattoo, and any secondary form of identification the owner of the flock may choose to maintain, the date and cause of death, if known, or date of removal from the flock and name and address of the person to whom the animal was transferred and the records required by § 79.2 of this chapter.
(c) Upon request by a State or APHIS representative or as required in a PEMMP, the owner of the flock or his or her agent must have an accredited veterinarian collect tissues from animals for scrapie diagnostic purposes and submit them to a laboratory designated by a State or APHIS representative or collect and submit samples by another method acceptable to APHIS.
(d) Upon request by a State or APHIS representative, the owner of the flock or his or her agent must make animals in the flock available for inspection and or testing and the records required to be kept as a part of these plans available for inspection and copying.
(e) The owner of the flock or his or her agent must meet requirements found necessary by a DSE to monitor for scrapie and to prevent the recurrence of scrapie in the flock and to prevent the spread of scrapie from the flock. These other requirements may include, but are not limited to: Utilization of a live-animal screening test; reporting animals found dead and collecting and submitting test samples from them; restrictions on the animals that may be moved from the flock; use of genetically resistant rams; segregated lambing; cleaning and disinfection of lambing facilities; and/or education of the owner of the flock and personnel working with the flock in techniques to recognize clinical signs of scrapie and to control the spread of scrapie.
(f) The owner of the flock or his or her agent must immediately report the following animals to a State representative, APHIS representative, or an accredited veterinarian; ensure that samples are properly collected for testing if the animal dies; allow the animals to be tested, and not remove them from a flock without written permission of a State or APHIS representative:
(1) Any sheep or goat exhibiting weight loss despite retention of appetite; behavioral abnormalities; pruritus
(itching); wool pulling; wool loss; biting at legs or side; lip smacking; motor abnormalities such as incoordination, high stepping gait of forelimbs, bunny hop movement of rear legs, or swaying of back end; increased sensitivity to noise and sudden movement; tremor; star gazing; head pressing; recumbency; rubbing, or other signs of neurological disease or chronic wasting illness; and
(2) Any sheep or goat in the flock that has tested positive for scrapie or for the proteinase resistant protein associated with scrapie on a live-animal screening test or any other test.
(g) An epidemiologic investigation must be conducted to identify high-risk and exposed animals that currently reside in the flock or that previously resided in the flock, and all high-risk animals, scrapie-positive animals, and suspect animals must be removed from the flock except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section. The animals must be removed either by movement to an approved research facility or by euthanasia and disposal of the carcasses by burial, incineration, or other methods approved by the Administrator and in accordance with local, State, and Federal laws, or upon request in individual cases by another means determined by the Administrator to be sufficient to prevent the spread of scrapie.
(h) The Administrator may allow high-risk animals that are not suspect animals to be retained under restriction if they are not genetically susceptible animals or if they have tested “PrPsc not detected” on a live animal scrapie test approved for this purpose by the Administrator and are maintained in a manner that the Administrator determines minimizes the risk of scrapie transmission,
e.g.,
bred only to genetically resistant sheep, segregated for lambing, and cleaning and disinfection of the lambing area. Such animals may be retained only if the exempted animal's official identification and the requirements for minimizing the risk of scrapie transmission are documented in the PEMMP and the owner is in compliance with the PEMMP. All such animals must be tested for scrapie when they are euthanized or die or if they are later determined to be suspect animals.
(i) The owner of the flock, or his or her agent, must request breed associations and registries, livestock facilities, and packers to disclose records to APHIS representatives or State representatives, to be used to identify source flocks and trace exposed animals, including high-risk animals.
(j) The flock plan will include a description of the types of animals that must be removed from a flock, the timeframes in which they must be removed and any other actions that must be accomplished in order for the flock plan to be completed. Flock plans shall require an owner to agree to:
(1) Clean and disinfect the premises in accordance with § 54.7(e). Premises or portions of premises may be exempted from the cleaning and disinfecting requirements if a designated scrapie epidemiologist determines, based on an epidemiologic investigation, that cleaning and disinfection of such buildings, holding facilities, conveyances, or other materials on the premises will not significantly reduce the risk of the spread of scrapie, either because effective disinfection is not possible or because the normal operations on the premises prevent transmission of scrapie. No confined area where a scrapie-positive animal was born, lambed or aborted may be exempted;
(2) Agree to conduct a post-exposure management and monitoring plan (PEMMP); and
(3) Comply with any other conditions in the flock plan;
(k) A PEMMP will be required for exposed flocks and may be required for flocks under investigation that were not source or infected flocks. A PEMMP may also be required for flocks that formerly were exposed flocks or flocks under investigation as a condition for being redesignated. A designated scrapie epidemiologist shall determine when to require a PEMMP and the monitoring requirements for these flocks based on the findings of the classification or reclassification investigation.
(l) Provided that, the Administrator may waive the requirement for a flock plan or PEMMP or waive any of the requirements in a flock plan or PEMMP
after determining that the flock poses a low risk of scrapie transmission.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0101 and 0579-0469)
[84 FR 11183, Mar. 25, 2019]
§ 54.9
Waiver of requirements for scrapie control pilot projects.
The Administrator may waive the following requirements of this part for participants in a scrapie control pilot project by recording the requirements waived in the scrapie control pilot project plan:
(a) The determination that an animal is a high-risk animal, if the scrapie control pilot project plan contains testing or other procedures that indicate that an animal, despite meeting the definition of high-risk animal, is unlikely to spread scrapie; and
(b) The requirement that high-risk animals must be removed from a flock if the scrapie control pilot project plan contains alternative procedures to prevent the further spread of scrapie without removing high-risk animals from the flock.
§ 54.10
Program approval of tests for scrapie.
(a) The Administrator may approve new tests or test methods for the diagnosis of scrapie conducted on live or dead animals for use in the Scrapie Eradication Program and/or the Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program. The Administrator will base the approval or disapproval of a test on the evaluation by APHIS and, when appropriate, outside scientists, of:
(1) A standardized test protocol that must include a description of the test, a description of the reagents, materials, and equipment used for the test, the test methodology, and any control or quality assurance procedures;
(2) Data to support repeatability, that is, the ability to reproduce the same result repeatedly on a given sample;
(3) Data to support reproducibility, that is, data to show that similar results can be produced when the test is run at other laboratories;
(4) Data to support the diagnostic and in the case of assays the analytical sensitivity and specificity of the test; and
(5) Any other data or information requested by the Administrator to determine the suitability of the test for program use. This may include but is not limited to past performance, cost of test materials and equipment, ease of test performance, generation of waste, and potential use of existing equipment.
(b) To be approved for program use, a scrapie test must be able to be readily and successfully performed at the National Veterinary Services Laboratories.
(c) The test must have a reliable, timely, and cost effective method of proficiency testing.
(d) The Administrator may decline to evaluate any test kit for program approval that has not been licensed for the intended use and may decline to evaluate any test or test method for program use unless the requester can demonstrate that the new method offers a significant advantage over currently approved methods.
(e) A test or combination of tests may be approved for the identification of suspect animals, or scrapie-positive animals, or for other purposes such as flock certification. For a test to be approved for the identification of scrapie-positive animals, the test must demonstrate a diagnostic specificity comparable to that of current program-approved tests, and the sensitivity of the test will also be considered in determining the approved uses of the test within the program. For a test to be approved for the removal of high-risk, exposed, or suspect animal designations the test must have a diagnostic sensitivity at least comparable to that of current program-approved tests used for this purpose. Since the purpose of a screening test is usually to identify a subset of animals for further testing, for a test to be approved as a screening test for the identification of suspect animals, the test must be usually reliable but need not be definitive for diagnosing scrapie.
(f) Specific guidelines for use of program-approved tests within the Scrapie Eradication Program or Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program will be made available on the scrapie website
at
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/animal-health/scrapie.
Guidelines will be based on the characteristics of the test, including specificity, sensitivity, and predictive value in defined groups of animals.
(g) If an owner elects to have an unofficial test conducted on an animal for scrapie, or for the proteinase resistant protein associated with scrapie, and that animal tests positive to such a test, the animal will be designated a suspect animal, unless the test is conducted as part of a research protocol and the protocol includes appropriate measures to prevent the spread of scrapie.
(h) The Administrator may withdraw or suspend approval of any test or test method if the test or method does not perform at an acceptable level following approval or if a more effective test or test method is subsequently approved. The Administrator shall give written notice of the suspension or proposed withdrawal to the director of the laboratories using the test or method or in the case of test kits to the manufacturer and shall give the director or manufacturer an opportunity to respond. Such action shall become effective upon oral or written notification, whichever is earlier, to the laboratory or manufacturer. If there are conflicts as to any material fact concerning the reason for withdrawal, a hearing may be requested in accordance with the procedure in § 79.4(c)(3) of this chapter. The action under appeal shall continue in effect pending the final determination of the Administrator, unless otherwise ordered by the Administrator. The Administrator's final determination constitutes final agency action.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0469)
[84 FR 11185, Mar. 25, 2019]
§ 54.11
Approval of laboratories to run official scrapie tests and official genotype tests.
(a) State, Federal, and university laboratories, or in the case of genotype tests, private laboratories will be approved by the Administrator when he or she determines that the laboratory:
(1) Employs personnel assigned to supervise and conduct the testing who are qualified to conduct the test based on education, training, and experience and who have been trained by the National Veterinary Services Laboratories (NVSL) or who have completed equivalent training approved by NVSL;
(2) Has adequate facilities and equipment to conduct the test;
(3) Follows standard test protocols that are approved or provided by NVSL;
(4) Meets check test proficiency requirements and consistently produces accurate test results as determined by NVSL review;
(5) Meets recordkeeping requirements;
(6) Will retain records, slides, blocks, and other specimens from all cases for at least 1 year and from positive cases and DNA from all genotype tests for at least 5 years and will forward copies of records and any of these materials to NVSL within 5 business days of request; Except that, NVSL may authorize a shorter retention time in a standard operating procedure or contract;
(7) Will allow APHIS to inspect the laboratory without notice during normal business hours. An inspection may include, but is not limited to, review and copying of records, examination of slides, review of quality control procedures, observation of sample handling/tracking procedures, observation of the test being conducted, and interviewing of personnel;
(8) Will report all test results to State and Federal animal health officials and record them in the National Scrapie Database within timeframes and in the manner and format specified by the Administrator; and
(9) Complies with any other written guidance provided to the laboratory by the Administrator.
(b) A laboratory may request approval to conduct one or more types of program-approved scrapie test or genotype test on one or more types of tissue. To be approved, a laboratory must meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section for each type of test and for each type of tissue for which they request approval.
(c) The Administrator may suspend or withdraw approval of any laboratory for failure to meet any of the conditions required by paragraph (a) of this section. The Administrator shall give
written notice of the suspension or the proposed withdrawal to the director of the laboratory and shall give the director an opportunity to respond. Such action shall become effective upon oral or written notification, whichever is earlier, to the laboratory or manufacturer. If there are conflicts as to any material fact concerning the reason for withdrawal, a hearing may be requested in accordance with the procedure in § 79.4(c)(3) of this chapter. The action under appeal shall continue in effect pending the final determination of the Administrator, unless otherwise ordered by the Administrator. The Administrator's final determination constitutes final agency action.
(d) The Administrator may require approved laboratories to reimburse APHIS for part or all of the costs associated with the approval and monitoring of the laboratory.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0101 and 0579-0469)
[84 FR 11185, Mar. 25, 2019]

# Subpart B—Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program
§ 54.20
Administration.
The Scrapie Flock Certification Program is a cooperative effort between APHIS; members of the sheep and goat industry, including owners of flocks, slaughtering and rendering establishments, and breed associations and registries; accredited veterinarians; and State governments. APHIS coordinates with State scrapie certification boards and State animal health agencies to encourage flock owners to certify their flocks as free of scrapie by being in continuous compliance with the Scrapie Flock Certification Program standards.
§ 54.21
Participation.
Any owner of a sheep or goat flock may apply to enter the Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program by sending a written request to a State scrapie certification board or to the Veterinary Services, Field Operations, AVIC responsible for the State involved. A notice containing a current list of flocks participating in the Scrapie Free Flock Certification Program, and the certification status of each flock, may be obtained from the APHIS website at
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/animal-health/scrapie.
A list of noncompliant flocks and a list of flocks that sold exposed animals that could not be traced may also be obtained from this site, and these lists may be obtained by writing to the National Scrapie Program Coordinator, Strategy and Policy, VS, APHIS, 4700 River Road Unit 43, Riverdale, MD 20737-1235.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0101)
[84 FR 11185, Mar. 25, 2019]
§ 54.22
State scrapie certification boards.
An area veterinarian in charge, after consulting with a State representative and industry representatives, may appoint a State scrapie certification board for the purpose of coordinating activities for the Scrapie Flock Certification Program, including making decisions to admit flocks to the Scrapie Flock Certification Program and to change flock status in accordance with the Scrapie Flock Certification Program standards. These boards are not appointed for the purpose of providing APHIS with consensus advice or policy recommendations. No more than one State scrapie certification board may be formed in each State. Each State scrapie certification board shall include as members the area veterinarian in charge, one or more State representatives, one or more accredited veterinarians, when possible, and one or more owners of flocks, and, at the discretion of the area veterinarian in charge, may include other members.
Pt. 55

# PART 55—CONTROL OF CHRONIC WASTING DISEASE
Sec.
55.1
Definitions.

# Subpart A—Chronic Wasting Disease Indemnification Program
55.2
Payment of indemnity.
55.3
Appraisal and destruction of captive cervids.
55.4
Disinfection of premises, conveyances, and materials.
55.5
Presentation of claims for indemnity.
55.6
Mortgage against animals.
55.7
Claims not allowed.
55.8
Official CWD tests and approval of laboratories to conduct official CWD tests.

# Subpart B—Chronic Wasting Disease Herd Certification Program
55.21
Administration.
55.22
Participation and enrollment.
55.23
Responsibilities of States and enrolled herd owners.
55.24
Herd status.
55.25
Animal identification.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8301-8317; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.4.

# Source:
67 FR 5931, Feb. 8, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 55.1
Definitions.
Accredited veterinarian.
A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with part 161 of this chapter to perform functions specified in subchapters B, C, and D of this chapter.
Administrator.
The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.
Animal.
Any farmed or captive deer, elk, or moose.
Animal identification.
A device or means of animal identification approved for use under this part by APHIS. Examples of animal identification devices that APHIS has approved are listed in § 55.25.
Animal identification number (AIN).
A numbering system for the official identification of individual animals in the United States. The AIN contains 15 digits, with the first 3 being the country code (840 for the United States), the alpha characters USA, or the numeric code assigned to the manufacturer of the identification device by the International Committee on Animal Recording.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
(APHIS). The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
APHIS employee.
Any individual employed by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service who is authorized by the Administrator to do any work or perform any duty in connection with the control and eradication of disease.
Approved State CWD Herd Certification Program.
A program operated by a State government for certification of cervid herds with respect to CWD that the Administrator has determined to meet the requirements of § 55.23(a).
Cervid.
All members of the family Cervidae and hybrids, including deer, elk, moose, caribou, reindeer, and related species. For the purposes of this part, the term “cervid” refers specifically to cervids susceptible to CWD. These are animals in the genera Odocoileus, Cervus, and Alces and their hybrids,
i.e.
, deer, elk, and moose.
Commingled, commingling.
Animals are commingled if they have direct contact with each other, have less than 10 feet of physical separation, or share equipment, pasture, or water sources/watershed. Animals are considered to have commingled if they have had such contact with a positive animal or contaminated premises within the last 5 years.
CWD-exposed animal.
An animal that is part of a CWD-positive herd, or that has been exposed to a CWD-positive animal or contaminated premises within the previous 5 years.
CWD-exposed herd.
A herd in which a CWD-positive animal has resided within 5 years prior to that animal's diagnosis as CWD-positive, as determined by an APHIS employee or State representative.
CWD Herd Certification Program.
The Chronic Wasting Disease Herd Certification Program established by this part. This program includes both herds that are directly enrolled in the CWD Herd Certification Program and herds that are included based on their participation in Approved State CWD Herd Certification Programs.
CWD-positive animal.
An animal that has had a diagnosis of CWD established through official confirmatory testing conducted by the National Veterinary Services Laboratories.
CWD positive herd.
A herd in which a CWD positive animal resided at the time it was diagnosed and which has not been released from quarantine.
CWD-source herd.
A herd that is identified through testing, tracebacks, and/or epidemiological evaluations to be the source of CWD-positive animals identified in other herds.
CWD-suspect animal.
An animal for which an APHIS employee or State representative has determined that unofficial CWD test results, laboratory evidence or clinical signs suggest a diagnosis of CWD, but for which official laboratory results have been inconclusive or not yet conducted.
CWD-suspect herd.
A herd for which unofficial CWD test results, laboratory evidence, or clinical signs suggest a diagnosis of CWD, as determined by an APHIS employee or State representative, but for which official laboratory results have been inconclusive or not yet conducted.
Deer, elk, and moose.
All animals in the genera Odocoileus, Cervus, and Alces and their hybrids.
Department.
The United States Department of Agriculture.
Farmed or captive.
Privately or publicly maintained or held for economic or other purposes within a perimeter fence or confined area, or captured from a free-ranging population for interstate movement and release.
Herd.
One or more animals that are:
(1) Under common ownership or supervision and are grouped on one or more parts of any single premises (lot, farm, or ranch) or
(2) All animals under common ownership or supervision on two or more premises which are geographically separated but on which animals have been interchanged or had direct or indirect contact with one another.
Herd plan.
A written herd and/or premises management agreement developed by APHIS in collaboration with the herd owner, State representatives, and other affected parties. The herd plan will not be valid until it has been reviewed and signed by the Administrator, the State representative, and the herd owner. A herd plan sets out the steps to be taken to control the spread of CWD from a CWD-positive herd, to control the risk of CWD in a CWD-exposed or CWD-suspect herd, or to prevent introduction of CWD into that herd or any other herd. A herd plan will require specified means of identification for each animal in the herd; regular examination of animals in the herd by a veterinarian for clinical signs of disease; reporting to a State or APHIS representative of any clinical signs of a central nervous system disease or chronic wasting condition in the herd; maintaining records of the acquisition and disposition of all animals entering or leaving the herd, including the date of acquisition or removal, name and address of the person from whom the animal was acquired or to whom it was disposed; and the cause of death, if the animal died while in the herd. A herd plan may also contain additional requirements to prevent or control the possible spread of CWD, depending on the particular circumstances of the herd and its premises, including but not limited to depopulation of the herd, specifying the time for which a premises must not contain cervids after CWD-positive, -exposed, or -suspect animals are removed from the premises; fencing requirements; selective culling of animals; restrictions on sharing and movement of possibly contaminated livestock equipment; premises cleaning and disinfection requirements; or other requirements. A herd plan may be reviewed and changes to it suggested at any time by any party signatory to it, in response to changes in the situation of the herd or premises or improvements in understanding of the nature of CWD epidemiology or techniques to prevent its spread. The revised herd plan will become effective after it is reviewed by the Administrator and signed by the Administrator, the State representative, and the herd owner.
Herd status.
The status of a herd assigned under the CWD Herd Certification Program in accordance with § 55.24, indicating a herd's relative risk for CWD. Herd status is based on the number of years of monitoring without evidence of the disease and any specific determinations that the herd has contained or has been exposed to a CWD-positive, -exposed or -suspect animal.
Materials.
Parts of barns or other structures, straw, hay, and other feed for animals, farm products or equipment, clothing, and any other articles on the premises that have been in contact with captive cervids.
Mortgage.
Any mortgage, lien, or other security or beneficial interest held by any person other than the one claiming indemnity.
National Uniform Eartagging System.
A numbering system for the official identification of individual animals in the United States providing a nationally unique identification number for each animal. The National Uniform Eartagging System employs an eight- or nine-character alphanumeric format, consisting of a two-number State or territory code, followed by two or three letters and four additional numbers. Official APHIS disease control programs may specify which format to employ.
Official animal identification.
A device or means of animal identification approved for use under this part by APHIS to uniquely identify individual animals. Examples of approved official animal identification devices are listed in § 55.25. The official animal identification must include a nationally unique animal identification number that adheres to one of the following numbering systems:
(1) National Uniform Eartagging System. The CWD program allows the use of either the eight-character or nine-character format for cervids.
(2) Animal identification number (AIN).
(3) Premises-based number system. The premises-based number system combines an official premises identification number (PIN), as defined in this section, with a producer's livestock production numbering system to provide a unique identification number. The PIN and the production number must both appear on the official tag.
(4) Any other numbering system approved by the Administrator for the identification of animals in commerce.
Official appraiser (APHIS official appraiser, State official appraiser).
A person authorized by APHIS (an APHIS official appraiser) or a State (a State official appraiser) to appraise animals for the purposes of this part. An official appraiser may be an APHIS employee, a State employee, or a professional livestock appraiser working under contract to APHIS or a State.
Official CWD test.
Any test for the diagnosis of CWD approved by the Administrator and conducted in a laboratory approved by the Administrator in accordance with § 55.8 of this part.
Person.
Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or other legal entity.
Premises identification number (PIN).
A nationally unique number assigned by a State, Tribal, and/or Federal animal health authority to a premises that is, in the judgment of the State, Tribal, and/or Federal animal health authority, a geographically distinct location from other premises. The premises identification number is associated with an address, geospatial coordinates, and/or location descriptors which provide a verifiably unique location. The premises identification number may be used in conjunction with a producer's own livestock production numbering system to provide a unique identification number for an animal. It may also be used as a component of a group/lot identification number. The premises identification number may consist of:
(1) The State's two-letter postal abbreviation followed by the premises' assigned number; or
(2) A seven-character alphanumeric code, with the right-most character being a check digit. The check digit number is based upon the ISO 7064 Mod 36/37 check digit algorithm.
Secretary.
The Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department delegated to act in the Secretary's stead.
State.
Each of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
State representative.
A person regularly employed in the animal health work of a State and who is authorized by that State to perform the function involved.
Trace back herd.
A herd in which a CWD-positive animal formerly resided.
Trace forward herd.
A herd that has received exposed animals from a CWD-positive herd within 5 years prior to the diagnosis of CWD in the positive herd or from the identified date of entry of CWD into the positive herd.
Veterinarian in charge.
The veterinary official of Veterinary Services, APHIS,
who is assigned by the Administrator to supervise and perform official animal health work for APHIS in the State concerned.
[67 FR 5931, Feb. 8, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 41701, July 21, 2006; 77 FR 35565, June 13, 2012; 79 FR 23891, Apr. 29, 2014]

# Subpart A—Chronic Wasting Disease Indemnification Program
§ 55.2
Payment of indemnity.
The Administrator is authorized to pay for the purchase and destruction of CWD positive animals, CWD exposed animals, and CWD suspect animals. Subject to available funding, the amount of the Federal payment for any such animals will be 95 percent of the appraised value established in accordance with § 55.3 of this part, but the Federal payment shall not exceed $3,000 per animal. If a non-Federal source makes a payment for an animal for which a Federal indemnity is paid, and the non-Federal payment exceeds 5 percent of the appraised value established in accordance with § 55.3 of this part, the amount of the Federal payment for any such animals will be reduced by the amount by which the non-Federal payment exceeds 5 percent of the appraised value. The Administrator is also authorized to reimburse State governments or State animal health agencies for payments they make for the purchase and destruction, on or after October 1, 2001, of CWD positive animals, CWD exposed animals, and CWD suspect animals, and for State expenditures for associated carcass disposal and cleaning and disinfection costs resulting from such purchase and destruction, in accordance with cooperative agreements signed by the Administrator and the duly authorized agent of the State.
§ 55.3
Appraisal and destruction of captive cervids.
(a) CWD positive herds, or individual CWD suspect animals or exposed animals removed by APHIS from a herd for testing, will be appraised by an APHIS official appraiser and a State official appraiser jointly, or, if APHIS and State authorities agree, by either a State official appraiser or an APHIS official appraiser alone.
(b) The appraisal of cervids will be the fair market value as determined by the meat or breeding value of the animals. Animals may be appraised in groups, provided that where appraisal is by the head, each animal in the group is the same value per head, and where appraisal is by the pound, each animal in the group is the same value per pound.
(c) Appraisals of cervids must be reported on forms furnished by APHIS and signed by the appraisers, and signed by the owner of the cervids to indicate agreement with the appraisal amount. Reports of appraisals must show the number of cervids and the value per head or the weight and value by pound.
(d) In accordance with instructions from an APHIS employee, cervids for which indemnification is sought must be:
(1) Destroyed on the premises where they are held, pastured, or penned at the time indemnity is approved;
(2) Moved to another location for destruction under conditions specified by the APHIS employee; or
(3) Moved to an approved research facility under conditions specified by the APHIS employee.
(e) The carcasses of any cervids destroyed in accordance with this part are authorized by the Administrator to be incinerated, destroyed in an alkaline hydrolysis tissue digestor, or disposed of by any other method authorized by an APHIS employee and in accordance with local, State, and Federal laws. APHIS will pay the reasonable costs of destruction and carcass disposal for animals that are indemnified. To obtain reimbursement for disposal costs, animal owners must obtain written approval of the disposal costs from APHIS, prior to disposal. Except in cases where APHIS or a State directly arranges for disposal, the owner of the animals must present an APHIS employee with a written contract or estimate of disposal costs. Prior to receiving reimbursement, the owner must also present an APHIS employee with a copy of either a receipt for expenses paid by the owner or a bill for services rendered to the owner. Any bill for services rendered presented by the owner must not be greater than the
normal fee for similar services provided by commercial entities. The carcasses of cervids destroyed in accordance with this section may not be sold to be processed for human or animal food, including dietary supplements.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0189)
§ 55.4
Disinfection of premises, conveyances, and materials.
After cervids are destroyed in accordance with this part, all premises, including barns, stockyards and pens, all cars and other conveyances, and all other materials on any premises or conveyances used to house or transport such cervids must be cleaned and disinfected under the supervision of an APHIS employee or a State representative, using methods specified by the APHIS employee or a State representative. Premises may not be restocked with cervids until after the date specified in the herd plan required by § 55.7(b) of this part. The owner to whom the indemnity is paid will be responsible for expenses incurred in connection with the cleaning and disinfection, except that APHIS or a State will pay for cleaning and disinfection of the conveyances used to transport the cervids to the location of disposal. However, APHIS may also decide to pay the cost of cleaning and disinfecting premises when the procedures needed to conduct effective cleaning and disinfection are unusually extensive and require methods that are not normally available on a premises. For example, normal procedures would include washing surfaces with high-pressure hoses and disinfectants and burying or burning contaminated materials. Unusually extensive procedures would include disposing of contaminated materials by digestive disposal or high-temperature incineration.
§ 55.5
Presentation of claims for indemnity.
Claims for indemnity for the value of animals destroyed must be documented on a form furnished by APHIS and presented to an APHIS employee or a State representative authorized to accept the claims.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0189)
§ 55.6
Mortgage against animals.
When cervids have been destroyed under this part, any claim for indemnity must be presented on forms furnished by APHIS. The owner of the cervids must certify on the forms that the cervids covered are, or are not, subject to any mortgage as defined in this part. If the owner states there is a mortgage, the owner and each person holding a mortgage on the cervids must sign, consenting to the payment of indemnity to the person specified on the form.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0189)
§ 55.7
Claims not allowed.
(a) The Department will not allow claims arising out of the destruction of cervids unless the cervids have been appraised as prescribed in this part and the owners have signed the appraisal form indicating agreement with the appraisal amount as required by § 55.3(c) of this part.
(b) The Department will not allow claims arising out of the destruction of cervids unless the owners have signed a written agreement with APHIS in which they agree that if they maintain cervids in the future on the premises used for cervids for which indemnity is paid, they will maintain the cervids in accordance with a herd plan and will not introduce cervids onto the premises until after the date specified in that herd plan. Persons who violate this written agreement may be subject to civil and criminal penalties.
(c) The Department will not allow claims arising out of the destruction of cervids that have been moved or handled by the owner or a representative of the owner in violation of a law or regulation administered by the Secretary regarding animal disease, or in violation of a law or regulation for which the Secretary has entered into a cooperative agreement.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0189)
§ 55.8
Official CWD tests and approval of laboratories to conduct official CWD tests.
(a) An official CWD test is:
(1) Histopathological examination of central nervous system (CNS) tissues from the animal for characteristic microscopic lesions of CWD, using test protocols provided by the National Veterinary Services Laboratories (NVSL);
(2) The use of proteinase-resistant protein analysis methods including but not limited to immunohistochemistry and/or western blotting on CNS and/or peripheral tissue samples from a live or a dead animal, using test protocols provided by NVSL; or
(3) Any other test method approved by the Administrator in accordance with this section.
(b) The Administrator may approve new tests for the diagnosis of CWD conducted on live or dead animals, and will base the approval or disapproval of a test on the evaluation by APHIS and, when appropriate, outside scientists, of:
(1) A standardized test protocol that must include a description of the test, a description of the reagents, materials, and equipment used for the test, the test methodology, and any control or quality assurance procedures;
(2) Data to support reproducibility, that is, the ability to reproduce the same result repeatedly on a given sample;
(3) Data to support suitability, that is, data to show that similar results can be produced when the test is run at other laboratories;
(4) Data to support the sensitivity and specificity of the test; and
(5) Any other data requested by the Administrator to determine the suitability of the test for program use.
(c) Specific protocols for official CWD tests are available upon request to NVSL.
(d) State, Federal, and university laboratories will be approved by the Administrator to conduct official CWD tests when he or she determines that the laboratory:
(1) Employs personnel assigned to supervise the testing who are qualified to conduct the test based on education, training, and experience and who have been trained by NVSL or who have completed equivalent training approved by NVSL;
(2) Has adequate facilities and equipment to conduct the test;
(3) Follows standard test protocols;
(4) Meets check test proficiency requirements;
(5) Meets recordkeeping requirements;
(6) Will retain records, slides, blocks, and other specimens from all cases for at least 1 year and from positive cases for 5 years;
(7) Will allow APHIS to inspect
1
the laboratory without notice during normal business hours; and
1
An inspection may include, but is not limited to, review and copying of records, examination of slides, observation of the test being conducted, and interviewing of personnel.
(8) Will report all test results to State and Federal animal health officials within agreed timeframes.
(e) The Administrator may withdraw approval of any laboratory for failure to meet any of the conditions required by paragraph (d) of this section. The Administrator shall give written notice of the proposed withdrawal to the director of the laboratory and shall give the director an opportunity to respond. If there are conflicts as to any material fact concerning the reason for withdrawal, a hearing will be held to resolve the conflicts. The hearing will be conducted in accordance with rules of practice that will be adopted by the Administrator for the proceeding.

# Subpart B—Chronic Wasting Disease Herd Certification Program

# Source:
77 FR 35566, June 13, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 55.21
Administration.
The CWD Herd Certification Program is a cooperative effort between APHIS, State animal health and wildlife agencies, and deer, elk, and moose owners. APHIS coordinates with these State agencies to encourage deer, elk, and moose owners to certify their herds as low risk for CWD by being in continuous compliance with the CWD Herd Certification Program standards.
§ 55.22
Participation and enrollment.
(a)
Participation by States.
Any State that operates a State program to certify the CWD status of deer, elk, or moose may request the Administrator to designate the State program as an Approved State CWD Herd Certification Program. The Administrator will approve or disapprove a State program in accordance with § 55.23(a). In States with an Approved State CWD Herd Certification Program, program activities will be conducted in accordance with the guidelines of that program as long as the State program meets the minimum requirements of this part. A list of Approved State CWD Herd Certification Programs may be obtained by writing to the National Center for Animal Health Program, VS, APHIS, 4700 River Road Unit 43, Riverdale, MD 20737-1235.
(b)
Participation by owners.
Any owner of a farmed or captive deer, elk, or moose herd may apply to enroll in an Approved State CWD Herd Certification Program by sending a written request to the appropriate State agency. Subject to the availability of appropriated funds for a Federal CWD Herd Certification Program, the owner may apply to the APHIS veterinarian in charge if no Approved State CWD Herd Certification Program exists in the herd's State. APHIS or the State will determine the herd's eligibility, and if needed will require the owner to submit more details about the herd animals and operations. An application for participation may be denied if APHIS or the State determines that the applicant has previously violated State or Federal laws or regulations for livestock, and that the nature of the violation indicates that the applicant may not faithfully comply with the requirements of the CWD Herd Certification Program. If the enrolling herd is a CWD-positive herd or CWD-exposed herd, immediately after enrollment it must begin complying with a herd plan developed in accordance with § 55.24. After determining that the herd is eligible to participate in accordance with this paragraph, APHIS or the appropriate State agency will send the herd owner a notice of enrollment that includes the herd's enrollment date. Inquiries regarding which herds are participating in the CWD Herd Certification Program and their certification should be directed to the State representative of the relevant State.
(1)
Enrollment date.
With the exceptions listed in this paragraph, the enrollment date for any herd that joins the CWD Herd Certification Program after August 13, 2012 will be the date the herd is approved for participation.
(i) For herds already participating in State CWD programs, the enrollment date will be the first day that the herd participated in a State program that APHIS subsequently determines qualifies as an Approved State CWD Herd Certification Program in accordance with § 55.23(a) of this part.
(ii) For herds that enroll directly in the Federal CWD Herd Certification Program, which is allowed only when there is no Approved State CWD Herd Certification Program in their State and which is subject to the availability of appropriated funds, the enrollment date will be the earlier of:
(A) The date APHIS approves enrollment; or
(B) If APHIS determines that the herd owner has maintained the herd in a manner that substantially meets the conditions specified in § 55.23(b) for herd owners, the first day that the herd participated in such a program. However, in such cases the enrollment date may not be set at a date more than 3 years prior to the date that APHIS approved enrollment of the herd.
(iii) For new herds that were formed from and contain only animals from herds enrolled in the CWD Herd Certification Program, the enrollment date will be the latest enrollment date for any source herd for the animals.
(2) [Reserved]
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0237)
§ 55.23
Responsibilities of States and enrolled herd owners.
(a)
Approval of State programs and responsibilities of States.
In reviewing a State program's eligibility to be designated an Approved State CWD Herd Certification Program, the Administrator will evaluate a written statement from the State that describes the State's CWD control and deer, elk, and moose herd certification activities and
that cites relevant State statutes, regulations, and directives pertaining to animal health activities and reports and publications of the State. In determining whether the State program qualifies, the Administrator will determine whether the State:
(1) Has the authority, based on State law or regulation, to restrict the intrastate movement of all CWD-positive, CWD-suspect, and CWD-exposed animals.
(2) Has the authority, based on State law or regulation, to require the prompt reporting of any animal suspected of having CWD and test results for any animals tested for CWD to State or Federal animal health authorities.
(3) Has, in cooperation with APHIS personnel, drafted and signed a memorandum of understanding with APHIS that delineates the respective roles of the State and APHIS in CWD Herd Certification Program implementation.
(4) Has placed all known CWD-positive, CWD-exposed, and CWD-suspect animals and herds under movement restrictions, with movement of animals from them only for destruction or under permit.
(5) Has effectively implemented policies to:
(i) Promptly investigate all animals reported as CWD-suspect animals;
(ii) Designate herds as CWD-positive, CWD-exposed, or CWD-suspect and promptly restrict movement of animals from the herd after an APHIS employee or State representative determines that the herd contains or has contained a CWD-positive animal;
(iii) Remove herd movement restrictions only after completion of a herd plan agreed upon by the State representative, APHIS, and the owner;
(iv) Conduct an epidemiologic investigation of CWD-positive, CWD-exposed, and CWD-suspect herds that includes the designation of suspect and exposed animals and that identifies animals to be traced;
(v) Conduct tracebacks of CWD-positive animals and traceouts of CWD-exposed animals and report any out-of-State traces to the appropriate State promptly after receipt of notification of a CWD-positive animal; and
(vi) Conduct tracebacks based on slaughter or other sampling promptly after receipt of notification of a CWD-positive animal at slaughter.
(6) Effectively monitors and enforces State quarantines and State reporting laws and regulations for CWD.
(7) Has designated at least one State animal health official, or has worked with APHIS to designate an APHIS official, to coordinate CWD Herd Certification Program activities in the State.
(8) Has programs to educate those engaged in the interstate movement of deer, elk, and moose regarding the identification and recordkeeping requirements of this part.
(9) Requires, based on State law or regulation, and effectively enforces identification of all animals in herds participating in the CWD Herd Certification Program;
(10) Maintains in the CWD National Database administered by APHIS, or in a State database approved by the Administrator as compatible with the CWD National Database, the State's:
(i) Premises information and assigned premises numbers;
(ii) Individual animal information on all deer, elk, and moose in herds participating in the CWD Herd Certification Program in the State;
(iii) Individual animal information on all out-of-State deer, elk, and moose to be traced; and
(iv) Accurate herd status data.
(11) Requires that tissues from all CWD-exposed or CWD-suspect animals that die or are depopulated or otherwise killed be submitted to a laboratory authorized by the Administrator to conduct official CWD tests and requires appropriate disposal of the carcasses of CWD-positive, CWD-exposed, and CWD-suspect animals.
(b)
Responsibilities of enrolled herd owners.
Herd owners who enroll in the CWD Herd Certification Program agree to maintain their herds in accordance with the following conditions:
(1) Each animal in the herd must be identified using means of animal identification specified in § 55.25. All animals in an enrolled herd must be identified before reaching 12 months of age. In addition, all animals of any age in
an enrolled herd must be identified before being moved from the herd premises. In addition, all animals in an enrolled herd must be identified before the inventory required under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, and animals found to be in violation of this requirement during the inventory must be identified during or after the inventory on a schedule specified by the APHIS employee or State representative conducting the inventory;
(2) The herd premises must have perimeter fencing adequate to prevent ingress or egress of cervids. This fencing must also comply with any applicable State regulations;
(3) The owner must immediately report to an APHIS employee or State representative all animals that escape or disappear, and all deaths (including animals killed on premises maintained for hunting and animals sent to slaughter) of deer, elk, and moose in the herd aged 12 months or older; Except that, APHIS employees or State representatives may approve reporting schedules other than immediate notification when herd conditions warrant it in the opinion of both APHIS and the State. The report must include the identification numbers of the animals involved and the estimated time and date of the death, escape, or disappearance. For animals that die (including animals killed on premises maintained for hunting and animals sent to slaughter), the owner must inform an APHIS or State representative and must make the carcasses of the animals available for tissue sampling and testing in accordance with instructions from the APHIS or State representative. In cases where animals escape or disappear and thus are not available for tissue sampling and testing, or when the owner provides samples that are of such poor quality that they cannot be tested for CWD, an APHIS representative will investigate whether the unavailability of animals or usable samples for testing constitutes a failure to comply with program requirements and will affect the herd's status in the CWD Herd Certification Program;
(4) The owner must maintain herd records that include a complete inventory of animals that states the species, age, and sex of each animal, the date of acquisition and source of each animal that was not born into the herd, the date of disposal and destination of any animal removed from the herd, and all individual identification numbers (from tags, tattoos, electronic implants, etc.) associated with each animal. Upon request by an APHIS employee or State representative, the owner must allow either of these officials or a designated accredited veterinarian access to the premises and herd to conduct an inventory. The owner will be responsible for assembling, handling, and restraining the animals and for all costs incurred to present the animals for inspection. The APHIS employee or State representative may order either an inventory that consists of review of herd records with visual examination of an enclosed group of animals, or a complete physical herd inventory with verification to reconcile all animals and identifications with the records maintained by the owner. In the latter case, the owner must present the entire herd for inspection under conditions where the APHIS employee, State representative, or accredited veterinarian can safely read all identification on the animals. During inventories, the owner must cooperate with the inspector to resolve any discrepancies to the satisfaction of the person performing the inventory. Inventory of a herd will be conducted no more frequently than once per year, unless an APHIS employee, State representative, or accredited veterinarian determines that more frequent inventories are needed based on indications that the herd may not be in compliance with CWD Herd Certification Program requirements. A complete physical herd inventory must be performed on a herd in accordance with this paragraph at the time a herd is enrolled in the CWD Herd Certification Program; Except that, APHIS may accept a complete physical herd inventory performed by an APHIS employee, State representative, or accredited veterinarian not more than 1 year before the herd's date of enrollment in the CWD Herd Certification Program as fulfilling the requirement for an initial inventory. In addition, a complete physical herd inventory must be performed for all herds enrolled in the
CWD Herd Certification Program no more than 3 years after the last complete physical herd inventory for the herd;
(5) If an owner wishes to maintain separate herds, he or she must maintain separate herd inventories, records, working facilities, water sources, equipment, and land use. There must be a buffer zone of at least 30 feet between the perimeter fencing around separate herds, and no commingling of animals may occur. Movement of animals between herds must be recorded as if they were separately owned herds;
(6) New animals may be introduced into the herd only from other herds enrolled in the CWD Herd Certification Program. If animals are received from an enrolled herd with a lower program status, the receiving herd will revert to that lower program status. If animals are obtained from a herd not participating in the program, then the receiving herd will be required to start over in the program.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0237)
§ 55.24
Herd status.
(a)
Initial and subsequent status.
When a herd is first enrolled in the CWD Herd Certification Program, it will be placed in First Year status; except that, if the herd is composed solely of animals obtained from herds already enrolled in the Program, the newly enrolled herd will have the same status as the lowest status of any herd that provided animals for the new herd. If the herd continues to meet the requirements of the CWD Herd Certification Program, each year, on the anniversary of the enrollment date the herd status will be upgraded by 1 year;
i.e.
, Second Year status, Third Year status, Fourth Year status, and Fifth Year status. One year from the date a herd is placed in Fifth Year status, the herd status will be changed to Certified, and the herd will remain in Certified status as long as it is enrolled in the program, provided its status is not lost or suspended in accordance with this section.
(b)
Loss or suspension of herd status.
(1) If a herd is designated a CWD-positive herd or a CWD-exposed herd, it will immediately lose its program status and may only reenroll after entering into a herd plan.
(2) If a herd is designated a CWD-suspect herd, a trace back herd, or a trace forward herd, it will immediately be placed in Suspended status pending an epidemiologic investigation by APHIS or a State animal health agency. If the epidemiologic investigation determines that the herd was not commingled with a CWD-positive animal, the herd will be reinstated to its former program status, and the time spent in Suspended status will count toward its promotion to the next herd status level.
(i) If the epidemiologic investigation determines that the herd was commingled with a CWD-positive animal, the herd will lose its program status and will be designated a CWD-exposed herd.
(ii) If the epidemiological investigation is unable to make a determination regarding the exposure of the herd, because the necessary animal or animals are no longer available for testing (
i.e.
, a trace animal from a known positive herd died and was not tested) or for other reasons, the herd status will continue as Suspended unless and until a herd plan is developed for the herd. If a herd plan is developed and implemented, the herd will be reinstated to its former program status, and the time spent in Suspended status will count toward its promotion to the next herd status level;
Except that,
if the epidemiological investigation finds that the owner of the herd has not fully complied with program requirements for animal identification, animal testing, and recordkeeping, the herd will be reinstated into the CWD Herd Certification Program at the First Year status level, with a new enrollment date set at the date the herd entered into Suspended status. Any herd reinstated after being placed in Suspended status must then comply with the requirements of the herd plan as well as the requirements of the CWD Herd Certification Program. The herd plan will require testing of all animals that die in the herd for any reason, regardless of the age of the animal, may require movement restrictions for animals in the herd based on epidemiologic evidence regarding the risk posed by the animals in question, and may include
other requirements found necessary to control the risk of spreading CWD.
(3) If an APHIS or State representative determines that animals from a herd enrolled in the program have commingled with animals from a herd with a lower program status, the herd with the higher program status will be reduced to the status of the herd with which its animals commingled.
(c)
Cancellation of enrollment by Administrator.
The Administrator may cancel the enrollment of an enrolled herd by giving written notice to the herd owner. In the event of such cancellation, any herd enrolled in the CWD Herd Certification Program by that herd owner may not reach Certified status until 5 years after the herd owner's new application for enrollment is approved by APHIS, regardless of the status of the animals of which the herd is composed. The Administrator may cancel enrollment after determining that the herd owner failed to comply with any requirements of this subpart. Before enrollment is canceled, an APHIS representative will inform the herd owner of the reasons for the proposed cancellation.
(1) Herd owners may appeal designation of an animal as CWD-positive, cancellation of enrollment of a herd, or loss or suspension of herd status by writing to the Administrator within 10 days after being informed of the reasons for the action. The appeal must include all of the facts and reasons upon which the herd owner relies to show that the reasons for the action are incorrect or do not support the action. Specifically, to appeal designation of an animal as CWD-positive, the owner may present as evidence the results of a DNA test requested and paid for by the owner to determine whether previous official CWD test results were correctly associated with an animal that belonged to the owner. If the owner intends to present such test results as evidence, he or she shall request the tests and state this in the written notice sent to the Administrator. In such cases the Administrator may postpone a decision on the appeal for a reasonable period pending receipt of such test results. To this end, laboratories approved under § 55.8 are authorized to conduct DNA tests to compare tissue samples tested for CWD to samples from tissues that were collected at the same time from the same animal and are attached to an official identification device. Such DNA tests are available only if the animal owner arranged to submit animal tissue attached to an official identification device along with the other tissues that were collected for the official CWD test. The Administrator will grant or deny the appeal in writing as promptly as circumstances permit, stating the reason for his or her decision. If the Administrator grants an appeal of the status of a CWD-positive animal, the animal shall be redesignated as CWD-suspect pending further investigation to establish the final status of the animal and its herd. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing will be held to resolve the conflict. Rules of practice concerning the hearing will be adopted by the Administrator.
(2) [Reserved]
(d)
Herd status of animals added to herds.
A herd may add animals from herds with the same or a higher herd status in the CWD Herd Certification Program with no negative impact on the certification status of the receiving herd.
5
If animals are acquired from a herd with a lower herd status, the receiving herd reverts to the program status of the sending herd. If a herd participating in the CWD Herd Certification Program acquires animals from a nonparticipating herd, the receiving herd reverts to First Year status with a new enrollment date of the date of acquisition of the animal.
5
Note that in addition to this requirement, § 81.3 of this chapter restricts the interstate movement of farmed and captive deer, elk, and moose based on their status in the CWD Herd Certification Program.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0237)
§ 55.25
Animal identification.
Each animal required to be identified by this subpart must have at least two forms of animal identification attached to the animal. One of the animal identifications must be official animal identification as defined in this part, with a nationally unique animal identification number that is linked to that
animal in the CWD National Database or in an approved State database. The second animal identification must be unique for the individual animal within the herd and also must be linked to that animal and herd in the CWD National Database or in an approved State database. The means of animal identification must be approved for this use by APHIS, and must be an electronic implant, flank tattoo, ear tattoo, tamper-resistant ear tag, or other device approved by APHIS.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0237)
Pt. 56

# PART 56—CONTROL OF H5/H7 LOW PATHOGENIC AVIAN INFLUENZA
Sec.
56.1
Definitions.
56.2
Cooperation with States.
56.3
Payment of indemnity and/or compensation.
56.4
Determination of indemnity and/or compensation amounts.
56.5
Destruction and disposal of poultry and cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) of premises, conveyances, and materials.
56.6
Presentation of claims for indemnity and/or compensation.
56.7
Mortgage against poultry or eggs.
56.8
Conditions for payment.
56.9
Claims not allowed.
56.10
Initial State response and containment plan.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8301-8317; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.4.

# Source:
71 FR 56323, Sept. 26, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 56.1
Definitions.
Administrator.
The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any other employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).
The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Breeding flock.
A flock that is composed of stock that has been developed for commercial egg or meat production and is maintained for the principal purpose of producing progeny for the ultimate production of eggs or meat for human consumption.
Classification.
A designation earned by participation in a Plan program.
Cleaning.
The removal of gross contamination, organic material, and debris from the premises or respective structures, via mechanical means like sweeping (dry cleaning) and/or the use of water and soap or detergent (wet cleaning), in order to minimize organic material to prepare for effective disinfection.
Commercial flock or slaughter plant.
A commercial poultry flock or slaughter plant that is required because of its size to participate in the special provisions in part 146 of this chapter in order to participate in the Plan.
Compensation.
In the case of H5/H7 LPAI detection, compensation specifically refers to reimbursement for the activities associated with the depopulation of infected or exposed poultry, including the disposal of contaminated carcasses and materials and the cleaning and disinfection of premises, conveyances, and materials that came into contact with infected or exposed poultry. In the case of contaminated materials, if the cost of cleaning and disinfection would exceed the value of the materials, or cleaning and disinfection would be impracticable for any reason, APHIS' Veterinary Services will base compensation on the fair market value (depreciated value) of those materials. Compensation does not include payment for depopulated birds or eggs destroyed (see definition of
Indemnity
in this section).
Cooperating State Agency.
Any State authority recognized by the Department to cooperate in the administration of the provisions of this part 56. This may include the State animal health authority or the Official State Agency.
Department.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Disinfection.
Methods used on surfaces to destroy or eliminate H5/H7 LPAI virus through physical (
e.g.,
heat) or chemical (
e.g.,
disinfectant) means. A combination of methods may be required.
Domesticated.
Propagated and maintained under the control of a person.
Flock plan.
A written flock management agreement developed by APHIS and the Official State Agency with input from the flock owner and other affected parties. A flock plan sets out the steps to be taken to eradicate H5/H7 LPAI from a positive flock, or to prevent introduction of H5/H7 LPAI into another flock. A flock plan shall include, but is not necessarily limited to, poultry and poultry product movement and geographically appropriate infected and control/monitoring zones. Control measures in the flock plan should include detailed plans for safe handling of conveyances, containers, and other associated materials that could serve as fomites; disposal of flocks; cleaning and disinfection; downtime; and repopulation.
H5/H7 low pathogenic avian influenza (LPAI).
An infection of poultry caused by an influenza A virus of H5 or H7 subtype that has an intravenous pathogenicity index in 6-week-old chickens less than or equal to 1.2 or causes less than 75 percent mortality in 4- to 8-week-old chickens infected intravenously, or an infection with influenza A viruses of H5 or H7 subtype with a cleavage site that is not consistent with a previously identified highly pathogenic avian influenza virus.
H5/H7 LPAI virus actively infected (infectious).
(1) Poultry will be considered to be actively infected with H5/H7 LPAI for the purposes of this part if:
(i) H5/H7 LPAI virus has been isolated and identified as such from poultry; or
(ii) Viral antigen or viral RNA specific to the H5 or H7 subtype of AI virus has been detected in poultry.
(2) The official determination that H5/H7 LPAI virus has been isolated and identified, or viral antigen or viral RNA specific to the H5 or H7 subtype of AI virus has been detected, may only be made by the National Veterinary Services Laboratories.
H5/H7 LPAI virus exposed (non-infectious).
(1) Poultry will be considered to be exposed (non-infectious) to H5/H7 LPAI for the purposes of this part if:
(i) Antibodies to the H5 or H7 subtype of the AI virus that are not a consequence of vaccination have been detected in poultry; and
(ii) Samples collected from the flock using real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) or virus isolation are determined to be not infectious for H5/H7 LPAI.
(2) The official determination that H5/H7 LPAI virus exposure has occurred is by the identification of antibodies to the H5 or H7 subtype of AI virus detected and may only be made by the National Veterinary Services Laboratories.
Indemnity.
Payments representing the fair market value of destroyed birds and eggs. Indemnity does not include reimbursements for depopulation, disposal, destroyed materials, or cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) activities; these activities are covered under compensation (see definition of
Compensation
in this section).
Mortgage.
Any mortgage, lien, or other security or beneficial interest held by any person other than the one claiming indemnity for the destruction of poultry or eggs due to H5/H7 LPAI.
Official appraiser (APHIS official appraiser, State official appraiser).
A person authorized by APHIS to appraise poultry for the purposes of this part. A State official appraiser is selected by a State and authorized by APHIS.
Official State Agency.
The State authority recognized by the Department to cooperate in the administration of the Plan.
Plan.
The provisions of the National Poultry Improvement Plan contained in parts 145, 146, and 147 of this chapter.
Poultry.
Domesticated fowl, including chickens, turkeys, ostriches, emus, rheas, cassowaries, waterfowl, and game birds, except doves and pigeons, which are bred for the primary purpose of producing eggs or meat.
Secretary.
The Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture, or any officer or employee of the Department delegated to act in the Secretary's stead.
State.
Any of the States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any territory or possession of the United States.
Table-egg layer.
A domesticated chicken grown for the primary purpose
of producing eggs for human consumption.
United States.
All of the States.
Virus elimination (VE).
Cleaning and disinfection measures conducted to destroy or eliminate all AI virus on an affected premises.
[71 FR 56323, Sept. 26, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 10656, Mar. 9, 2010; 76 FR 15792, Mar. 22, 2011; 79 FR 38753, July 9, 2014; 81 FR 53249, Aug. 12, 2016; 85 FR 62562, Oct. 5, 2020]
§ 56.2
Cooperation with States.
(a) The Administrator has been delegated the authority to cooperate with Cooperating State Agencies in the eradication of H5/H7 LPAI. This cooperation may include, but is not necessarily limited to, the following activities:
(1) Payment to Cooperating State Agencies for surveillance and monitoring associated with poultry that have been infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI;
(2) Transfer of vaccine for H5/H7 LPAI to Cooperating State Agencies if provided for in the initial State response and containment plan approved by APHIS under § 56.10; and
(3) Payment for vaccine administration by Cooperating State Agencies, if provided for in the initial State response and containment plan approved by APHIS under § 56.10.
(b)(1) Any payment made to a State or an Official State Agency for the activities listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section must be made through a cooperative agreement between the Cooperating State Agency and APHIS. The payment for which the Cooperating State Agency is eligible will be determined in the cooperative agreement.
(i) For any Cooperating State Agency that participates in the National Poultry Improvement Plan diagnostic surveillance program for H5/H7 LPAI, as described in § 146.14 of this chapter, and has an initial State response and containment plan for H5/H7 LPAI that is approved by APHIS, as described in § 56.10 of this part, the cooperative agreement will provide that the Cooperating State Agency is eligible for payment of 100 percent of the costs of surveillance and monitoring and 100 percent of the costs of vaccine administration, as determined in the cooperative agreement.
(ii) For any Cooperating State Agency that does not meet the criteria in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the cooperative agreement will provide that the Cooperating State Agency is eligible for payment of 25 percent of the costs of surveillance and monitoring and 25 percent of the costs of vaccine administration, as determined in the cooperative agreement.
(2) Transfer of vaccine under paragraph (a)(2) of this section must be accomplished through a cooperative agreement between the Cooperating State Agency and APHIS.
(c) Cooperating State Agencies will be responsible for making the determination to request Federal assistance under this part in the event of an outbreak of H5/H7 LPAI.
[71 FR 56323, Sept. 26, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 10656, Mar. 9, 2010]
§ 56.3
Payment of indemnity and/or compensation.
(a)
Activities eligible for indemnity and/or compensation.
The Administrator may pay indemnity and/or compensation for the activities listed in this paragraph (a), as provided in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) Destruction and disposal of poultry that were infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI;
(2) Destruction of any eggs destroyed during testing of poultry for H5/H7 LPAI during an outbreak of H5/H7 LPAI; and
(3) Cleaning and disinfection of premises, conveyances, and materials that came into contact with poultry that were infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI; or, in the case of materials, if the cost of cleaning and disinfection would exceed the value of the materials or cleaning and disinfection would be impracticable for any reason, the destruction and disposal of the materials.
(b)
Percentage of costs eligible for indemnity and/or compensation.
Except for poultry that are described by the categories in this paragraph (b), the Administrator is authorized to pay 100 percent of the costs and/or compensation, as determined in accordance with § 56.4, of the activities described in
paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, regardless of whether the infected or exposed poultry participate in the Plan. For infected or exposed poultry that are described by the categories in this paragraph (b), the Administrator is authorized to pay 25 percent of the costs of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section:
(1)(i) The poultry are from a breeding flock, commercial flock, or slaughter plant that participates in any Plan program in part 145 or 146 of this chapter but that does not participate in the U.S. Avian Influenza Clean, U.S. H5/H7 Avian Influenza Clean, or U.S. H5/H7 Avian Influenza Monitored program of the Plan available to the flock in part 145 or 146 of this chapter; and
(ii) The poultry are from:
(A) A commercial table-egg laying premises with at least 75,000 birds; or
(B) A meat-type chicken slaughter plant that slaughters at least 200,000 meat-type chickens in an operating week; or
(C) A meat-type turkey slaughter plant that slaughters at least 2 million meat-type turkeys in a 12-month period; or
(D) A commercial waterfowl and commercial upland game bird slaughter plant that slaughters at least 50,000 birds annually; or
(E) A raised-for-release upland game bird premises, raised-for-release waterfowl premises, and commercial upland game bird or commercial waterfowl producing eggs for human consumption premises that raise at least 25,000 birds annually; or
(F) A breeder flock premises with at least 5,000 birds.
(2) The poultry are located in a State that does not participate in the diagnostic surveillance program for H5/H7 LPAI, as described in § 146.14 of this chapter, or that does not have an initial State response and containment plan for H5/H7 LPAI that is approved by APHIS under § 56.10, unless such poultry participate in the Plan with another State that does participate in the diagnostic surveillance program for H5/H7 LPAI, as described in § 146.14 of this chapter, and has an initial State response and containment plan for H5/H7 LPAI that is approved by APHIS under § 56.10.
(c)
Other sources of payment.
If the recipient of indemnity and/or compensation for any of the activities listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section also receives payment for any of those activities from a State or from other sources, the indemnity and/or compensation provided under this part may be reduced by the total amount of payment received from the State or other sources to the extent that total payments do not exceed 100 percent of total reimbursable indemnity and/or compensation amounts.
[71 FR 56323, Sept. 26, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 10657, Mar. 9, 2010; 76 FR 15792, Mar. 22, 2011; 76 FR 65935, Oct. 25, 2011; 85 FR 62562, Oct. 5, 2020]
§ 56.4
Determination of indemnity and/or compensation amounts.
(a)
Destruction and disposal of poultry.
(1) Indemnity for the destruction of poultry and/or eggs infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI will be based on the fair market value of the poultry and/or eggs, as determined by an appraisal. Poultry infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI that are removed by APHIS or a Cooperating State Agency from a flock will be appraised by an APHIS official appraiser and a State official appraiser jointly, or, if APHIS and State authorities agree, by either an APHIS official appraiser or a State official appraiser alone. For laying hens, the appraised value should include the hen's projected future egg production. Appraisals of poultry must be reported on forms furnished by APHIS and signed by the appraisers and must be signed by the owners of the poultry to indicate agreement with the appraisal amount. Appraisals of poultry must be signed by the owners of the poultry prior to the destruction of the poultry, unless the owners, APHIS, and the Cooperating State Agency agree that the poultry may be destroyed immediately. Reports of appraisals must show the number of birds and the value per head.
(2) Compensation for disposal of poultry and/or eggs infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI will be based on
receipts or other documentation maintained by the claimant verifying expenditures for disposal activities authorized by this part. Any disposal of poultry infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI for which compensation is requested must be performed under a compliance agreement between the claimant and APHIS. APHIS will review claims for compensation for disposal to ensure that all expenditures relate directly to activities described in § 56.5 and in the initial State response and containment plan described in § 56.10. If disposal is performed by the Cooperating State Agency, APHIS will compensate the Cooperating State Agency for disposal under a cooperative agreement.
(3) The destruction and disposal of the poultry and/or eggs must be conducted in accordance with the initial State response and containment plan for H5/H7 LPAI, as described in § 56.10.
(b)
Cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination).
(1) Compensation for cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) of premises, conveyances, and materials that came into contact with poultry that are infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI will be determined using the current APHIS flat-rate virus elimination (VE) calculator in effect at the time of the infection, except in instances when the claimant and APHIS jointly agree the VE calculator is not applicable to the premises type.
(2) For premises types for which a flat-rate VE calculator is not applicable, reimbursement will be based on receipts or other documentation maintained by the claimant verifying expenditures for cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) activities authorized by this part. Any cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) of premises, conveyances, and materials for which compensation is requested must be performed under a compliance agreement between the claimant, the Cooperating State Agency, and APHIS. APHIS will review claims for compensation for cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) to ensure that all expenditures relate directly to activities described in § 56.5 and in the initial State response and containment plan described in § 56.10.
(i) In the case of materials, if the cost of cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) would exceed the value of the materials or cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) would be impracticable for any reason, compensation for the destruction of the materials will be based on the fair market value (depreciated value) of those materials, as determined by an appraisal. Materials will be appraised by an APHIS official appraiser. Compensation for disposal of the materials will be based on receipts or other documentation maintained by the claimant verifying expenditures for disposal activities authorized by this part. Appraisals of materials must be reported on forms furnished by APHIS and must be signed by the appraisers and by the owners of the materials to indicate agreement with the appraisal amount. Appraisals of materials must be signed and received by APHIS prior to the disassembly or destruction of the materials, unless the owners, APHIS, and the Cooperating State Agency agree in writing that the materials may be disassembled and/or destroyed immediately. Any disposal of materials for which compensation is requested must be performed under a compliance agreement between the claimant, the Cooperating State Agency, and APHIS. APHIS will review claims for compensation for disposal to ensure that all expenditures relate directly to activities described in § 56.5 and in the initial State response and containment plan described in § 56.10.
(ii) [Reserved]
(c)
Requirements for compliance agreements.
The compliance agreement is a comprehensive document that describes the depopulation, disposal, and cleaning and disinfection plans for poultry that were infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI, or a premises that contained such poultry. The compliance agreement must set out cost estimates that include labor, materials, supplies, equipment, personal protective equipment, and any additional information deemed necessary by APHIS. A compliance agreement is comparable to a statement of work and must indicate what tasks will be completed, who will be responsible for each
task, and how much the work is expected to cost. A compliance agreement may also be referred to as a detailed financial plan. Once work associated with the compliance agreement is completed, receipts and documentation detailing the activities specified in the agreement should be forwarded to APHIS for review, approval, and final payment. This documentation should be submitted to APHIS no later than 30 days after the quarantine release of the affected or exposed premises.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0579-0007 and 0579-0474)
[85 FR 62563, Oct. 5, 2020]
§ 56.5
Destruction and disposal of poultry and cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) of premises, conveyances, and materials.
(a)
Destruction of poultry.
Poultry that are infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI may be required to be destroyed at the discretion of the Cooperating State Agency and APHIS and in accordance with the initial State response and containment plan described in § 56.10. The Cooperating State Agency and APHIS will select a method to use for the destruction of such poultry based on the following factors:
(1) The species, size, and number of the poultry to be destroyed;
(2) The environment in which the poultry are maintained;
(3) The risk to human health or safety of the method used;
(4) Whether the method requires specialized equipment or training;
(5) The risk that the method poses of spreading the H5/H7 LPAI virus;
(6) Any hazard the method could pose to the environment;
(7) The degree of bird control and restraint required to administer the destruction method;
(8) The speed with which destruction must be conducted; and
(9) Consistency of the method with humane euthanasia guidelines.
(b)
Disposal of poultry.
Carcasses of poultry that have died from H5/H7 LPAI infection or poultry that have been humanely slaughtered to fulfill depopulation requirements must be disposed of promptly and efficiently in accordance with the initial State response and containment plan described in § 56.10 to prevent the spread of H5/H7 LPAI infection. Disposal methods will be selected by the Cooperating State Agency and APHIS and may include one or more of the following: Burial, incineration, composting, or rendering. Regardless of the method used, strict biosecurity procedures must be implemented and enforced for all personnel and vehicular movement into and out of the area in accordance with the initial State response and containment plan to prevent dissemination of the H5/H7 LPAI virus.
(c)
Controlled marketing.
(1) At the discretion of the Cooperating State Agency and APHIS, poultry that has been infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI may be allowed to move for controlled marketing and maintain their current National Poultry Improvement Plan (NPIP) certifications in accordance with the initial State response and containment plan described in § 56.10 and in accordance with the following requirements:
(i) Poultry infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI must not be transported to a market for controlled marketing until approved by the Cooperating State Agency in accordance with the initial State response and containment plan described in § 56.10.
(ii) Within 7 days prior to slaughter, each flock to be moved for controlled marketing must be tested for H5/H7 LPAI using a test approved by the Cooperating State Agency and found to be free of the virus.
(iii) Routes to slaughter must avoid other commercial poultry operations whenever possible. All load-out equipment, trailers, and trucks used on premises that have housed poultry that were infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI must be cleaned and disinfected and not enter other poultry premises or facilities for 48 hours after removing such poultry from their premises.
(iv) Flocks moved for controlled marketing must be the last poultry marketed during the week they are marketed.
(2) Poultry moved for controlled marketing will not be eligible for indemnity under § 56.3. However, any costs related to cleaning and disinfection
(virus elimination) of premises, conveyances, and materials that came into contact with poultry that are moved for controlled marketing will be eligible for compensation under § 56.3.
(d)
Cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) of premises, conveyances, and materials.
Premises, conveyances, and materials that came into contact with poultry infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI must be cleaned and disinfected;
Provided,
that materials for which the cost of cleaning and disinfection would exceed the value of the materials or for which cleaning and disinfection would be impracticable for any reason may be destroyed and disposed. Cleaning and disinfection must be performed in accordance with the initial State response and containment plan described in § 56.10, which must be approved by APHIS. Cleaning and disinfection must also be performed in accordance with any applicable State and local environmental regulations.
[71 FR 56323, Sept. 26, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 10657, Mar. 9, 2010; 79 FR 38753, July 9, 2014; 85 FR 62563, Oct. 5, 2020]
§ 56.6
Presentation of claims for indemnity and/or compensation.
Claims for the following must be documented on a form furnished by APHIS and presented to an APHIS employee or the State representative authorized to accept the claims:
(a) Indemnity for the value of poultry to be destroyed due to infection with or exposure to H5/H7 LPAI;
(b) Indemnity for the value of eggs to be destroyed due to infection or exposure to H5/H7 LPAI; and
(c) Compensation for the cost of cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) of premises, conveyances, and materials that came into contact with poultry infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI, or, in the case of materials, if the cost of cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) would exceed the value of the materials or cleaning and disinfection (virus elimination) would be impracticable for any reason, the cost of destruction and disposal for the materials.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0007)
[71 FR 56323, Sept. 26, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 10657, Mar. 9, 2010; 85 FR 62564, Oct. 5, 2020]
§ 56.7
Mortgage against poultry or eggs.
When poultry or eggs have been destroyed under this part, any claim for indemnity must be presented on forms furnished by APHIS. The owner of the poultry or eggs must certify on the forms that the poultry or eggs covered are, or are not, subject to any mortgage as defined in this part. If the owner states there is a mortgage, the owner and each person holding a mortgage on the poultry or eggs must sign the APHIS-furnished form, consenting to the payment of indemnity to the person specified on the form.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0007)
[71 FR 56323, Sept. 26, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 10657, Mar. 9, 2010]
§ 56.8
Conditions for payment.
(a) When poultry or eggs have been destroyed pursuant to this part, the Administrator shall pay claims to any party with which the owner of the poultry or eggs has entered into a contract for the growing or care of the poultry or eggs. The indemnity the Administrator shall pay to such a party or parties shall be determined as follows:
(1) Divide the value of the contract the owner of the poultry or eggs entered into with another party for the growing and care of the poultry or eggs in dollars by the duration of the contract as it was signed prior to the H5/H7 LPAI outbreak in days;
(2) Multiply this figure by the time in days between the date the other party began to provide services relating to the destroyed poultry or eggs under the contract and the date the poultry or eggs were destroyed due to H5/H7 LPAI.
(b)(1) If indemnity for the destroyed poultry or eggs is being provided for 100 percent of eligible costs under § 56.3(b), the Administrator may pay contractors eligible for indemnity under this
section 100 percent of the amount determined in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If indemnity for the destroyed poultry or eggs is being provided for 25 percent of eligible costs under § 56.3(b), the Administrator may pay contractors eligible for indemnity under this section 25 percent of the amount determined in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) If a contractor receiving indemnity under this section has received any payment under his or her contract from the owner of the poultry or eggs at the time the poultry or eggs are destroyed, the amount of indemnity for which the contract grower is eligible will be reduced by the amount of the payment the contract grower has already received.
(d) If indemnity is paid to a contractor under this section, the owner of the poultry or eggs will be eligible to receive the difference between the indemnity paid to the growers and the total amount of indemnity that may be paid for the poultry or eggs.
(e) In the event that determination of indemnity to a party with which the owner of destroyed poultry or eggs has entered into a contract for the growing or care of the poultry or eggs using the method described in paragraph (a) of this section is determined to be impractical or inappropriate, APHIS may use any other method that the Administrator deems appropriate to make that determination.
[71 FR 56323, Sept. 26, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 10657, Mar. 9, 2010; 85 FR 62564, Oct. 5, 2020]
§ 56.9
Claims not allowed.
(a) The Department will not allow claims arising out of the destruction of poultry unless the poultry have been appraised as prescribed in this part and the owners have signed the appraisal form indicating agreement with the appraisal amount as required by § 56.4(a).
(b) The Department will not allow claims arising out of the destruction of poultry unless the owners have signed a written agreement with APHIS in which they agree that if they maintain poultry in the future on the premises used for poultry for which indemnity and/or compensation is paid, they will maintain the poultry in accordance with a plan set forth by the Cooperating State Agency and will not introduce poultry onto the premises until after the date specified by the Cooperating State Agency. Persons who do not maintain their poultry and premises in accordance with this written agreement will not be eligible to receive indemnity and/or compensation under this part.
(c) The Department will not allow claims arising out of the destruction of poultry unless the poultry have been moved or handled by the owner in accordance with an agreement for the control and eradication of H5/H7 LPAI and in accordance with part 56, for any progeny of any poultry unless the poultry have been moved or handled by the owner in accordance with an agreement for the control and eradication of H5/H7 LPAI and in accordance with part 56, or for any poultry that become or have become infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI because of actions not in accordance with an agreement for the control and eradication of H5/H7 LPAI or a violation of this part.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0007)
[71 FR 56323, Sept. 26, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 10657, Mar. 9, 2010; 85 FR 62564, Oct. 5, 2020]
§ 56.10
Initial State response and containment plan.
(a) In order for poultry owners within a State to be eligible for indemnity and/or compensation for 100 percent of eligible costs under § 56.3(b), the State in which the poultry participate in the Plan must have in place an initial State response and containment plan that has been approved by APHIS. The initial State response and containment plan must be developed by the Official State Agency. In States where the Official State Agency is different than the Cooperating State Agency, the Cooperating State Agency must also participate in the development of the plan. The plan must be administered by the Cooperating State Agency of the relevant State. This plan must include:
(1) Provisions for a standing emergency disease management committee, regular meetings, and exercises, including coordination with any tribal governments that may be affected;
(2) A minimum biosecurity plan followed by all poultry producers;
(3) Provisions for adequate diagnostic resources;
(4) Detailed, specific procedures for initial handling and investigation of suspected cases of H5/H7 LPAI;
(5) Detailed, specific procedures for reporting test results to APHIS. These procedures must be developed after appropriate consultation with poultry producers in the State and must provide for the reporting only of confirmed cases of H5/H7 LPAI in accordance with § 146.13 of this chapter;
(6) Detailed, strict quarantine measures for presumptive and confirmed index cases;
(7) Provisions for developing flock plans for infected and exposed flocks;
(8) Detailed plans for disposal of infected flocks, including preexisting agreements with regulatory agencies and detailed plans for carcass disposal, disposal sites, and resources for conducting disposal, and detailed plans for disposal of materials that come into contact with poultry infected with or exposed to H5/H7 LPAI;
(9) Detailed plans for cleaning and disinfection of premises, repopulation, and monitoring after repopulation;
(10) Provisions for appropriate control/monitoring zones, contact surveys, and movement restrictions;
(11) Provisions for monitoring activities in control zones;
(12) If vaccination is considered as an option, a written plan for use in place with proper controls and provisions for APHIS approval of any use of vaccine;
(13) Plans for H5/H7 LPAI-negative flocks that provide for quarantine, testing, and controlled marketing; and
(14) Public awareness and education programs regarding avian influenza.
(b) If a State is designated a U.S. Avian Influenza Monitored State, Layers under § 146.24(a) of this chapter or a U.S. Avian Influenza Monitored State, Turkeys under § 146.44(a) of this chapter, it will lose that status during any outbreak of H5/H7 LPAI and for 90 days after the destruction and disposal of all infected or exposed birds and cleaning and disinfection of all affected premises are completed.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0474)
[71 FR 56323, Sept. 26, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 10658, Mar. 9, 2010; 85 FR 62564, Oct. 5, 2020]

# SUBCHAPTER C—INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF ANIMALS (INCLUDING POULTRY) AND ANIMAL PRODUCTS
Pt. 70

# PART 70—RULES OF PRACTICE GOVERNING PROCEEDINGS UNDER CERTAIN ACTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
70.1
Scope and applicability of rules of practice.

# Subpart B—Supplemental Rules of Practice
70.10
Stipulations.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8301-8317; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.4.

# Source:
48 FR 30094, June 30, 1983, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 70.1
Scope and applicability of rules of practice.
The Uniform Rules of Practice for the Department of Agriculture promulgated in subpart H of part 1, subtitle A, title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, are the Rules of Practice applicable to adjudicatory, administrative proceedings under the following statutory provisions:
Act of May 29, 1884, commonly known as the Animal Industry Act, section 7, as amended (21 U.S.C. 117),
Act of February 2, 1903, commonly known as the Cattle Contagious Diseases Act of 1903, Section 3, as amended (21 U.S.C. 122),
Act of March 3, 1905, Section 6, as amended (21 U.S.C. 127),
Act of July 2, 1962, Section 6(a), as amended (21 U.S.C. 134e).
The Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8301
et seq.
).
Sections 901-905 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 1901 note).
In addition, the Supplemental Rules of Practice set forth in subpart B of this part shall be applicable to such proceedings.
[48 FR 30094, June 30, 1983, as amended at 66 FR 63615, Dec. 7, 2001; 68 FR 6343, Feb. 7, 2003]

# Subpart B—Supplemental Rules of Practice
§ 70.10
Stipulations.
(a) At any time prior to the issuance of a complaint seeking a civil penalty under any of the Acts listed in § 70.1, the Administrator, in his discretion, may enter into a stipulation with any person in which:
(1) The Administrator or the Administrator's delegate gives notice of an apparent violation of the Act, or the regulations issued thereunder, by such person and affords such person an opportunity for a hearing regarding the matter as provided by the Act;
(2) Such person expressly waives hearing and agrees to pay a specified penalty within a designated time; and
(3) The Administrator agrees to accept the penalty in settlement of the particular matter involved if the penalty is paid within the designated time.
(b) If the penalty is not paid within the time designated in such a stipulation, the amount of the stipulated penalty shall not be relevant in any respect to the penalty which may be assessed after issuance of a complaint.
Pt. 71

# PART 71—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec.
71.1
Definitions.
71.2
Secretary to issue rule governing quarantine and interstate movement of diseased animals, including poultry.
71.3
Interstate movement of diseased animals and poultry generally prohibited.
71.4
Maintenance of certain facilities and premises in a sanitary condition required; cleaning and disinfection, when required; animals classed as “exposed.”
71.5
Unsanitary railroad cars, trucks, boats, aircraft or other means of conveyance; interstate movement restricted.
71.6
Carrier responsible for cleaning and disinfecting of railroad cars, trucks, boats, aircraft or other means of conveyance.
71.7
Means of conveyance, facilities, premises, and cages and other equipment; methods of cleaning and disinfecting.
71.10
Permitted disinfectants.
71.11
Cresylic disinfectant as permitted disinfectant; specifications.
71.12
Sodium orthophenylphenate as permitted disinfectant for premises infected with tuberculosis.
71.13
Inspection of shipments in transit by APHIS representative.
71.14
Slaughter of poultry or other animals to prevent spread of disease; ascertainment of value and compensation.
71.15
Movement from quarantined to free area and shipment therefrom; conditions under which permitted.
71.16
Inspection and certification of poultry or other animals for interstate movement.
71.17
Interstate movement of dead poultry or other animals prohibited in same car with live poultry or other animals.
71.18
[Reserved]
71.19
Identification of swine in interstate commerce.
71.20
Approval of livestock facilities.
71.21
Tissue and blood testing at slaughter.
71.22
Approval of laboratories to conduct official testing.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8301-8317; 7 CFR 2.22, 2.80, and 371.4.

# Source:
28 FR 5937, June 13, 1963, unless otherwise noted.
§ 71.1
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section.
Accredited veterinarian.
A veterinarian who is approved by the Administrator, in accordance with part 161 of this chapter, to perform official animal health work of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service specified in subchapters A, B, C, and D of this chapter and to perform work required by cooperative State-Federal disease control and eradication programs.
Administrator.
The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (APHIS).
Animal identification number (AIN).
A numbering system for the official identification of individual animals in the United States that provides a nationally unique identification number for each animal. The AIN consists of 15 digits, with the first 3 being the country code (840 for the United States or a unique country code for any U.S. territory that has such a code and elects to use it in place of the 840 code). The alpha characters USA or the numeric code assigned to the manufacturer of the identification device by the International Committee on Animal Recording may be used as an alternative to the 840 or other prefix representing a U.S territory; however, only the AIN beginning with the 840 or other prefix representing a U.S. territory will be recognized as official for use on AIN tags applied to animals on or after March 11, 2015. The AIN beginning with the 840 prefix may not be applied to animals known to have been born outside the United States.
APHIS representative.
An individual employed by APHIS who is authorized to perform the function involved.
Approved laboratory.
A laboratory approved by the Administrator to conduct official testing in accordance with the regulations in § 71.22.
Approved livestock facility.
A stockyard, livestock market, buying station, concentration point, or any other premises under State or Federal veterinary supervision where livestock are assembled and that has been approved under § 71.20.
Area veterinarian in charge.
The veterinary official of APHIS who is assigned by the Administrator to supervise and perform the official animal health work of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in the State concerned.
Breeding sheep and goats.
Any sexually intact sheep or goat that is not moving either directly to slaughter or through one or more restricted sales and/or terminal feedlots and then directly to slaughter.
Breeder swine.
Sexually intact swine over 6 months of age.
Commingling.
The mixing or assembling of swine from one premises with swine from any other premises, including, but not limited to, loading swine from more than one premises on the same truck, trailer, vessel, or railroad car, unless swine from different premises are kept separate on the means of conveyance by dividers.
Consistent States.
Those States listed as consistent States in § 79.1 of this subchapter because they meet certain standards, as provided in § 79.6 of this subchapter, for conducting an active
State scrapie program involving the identification of scrapie in sheep and goats for the purpose of controlling the spread of scrapie.
Department.
The United States Department of Agriculture.
Feeder swine.
Swine under 6 months of age that are not slaughter swine.
Flock-based number system.
The flock-based number system combines a flock identification number (FIN) with a producer's unique livestock production numbering system to provide a nationally unique identification number for an animal.
Flock identification number (FIN).
A nationally unique number assigned by a State, Tribal, or Federal animal health authority to a group of animals that are managed as a unit on one or more premises and are under the same ownership.
Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS).
The Food Safety and Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture.
Free area.
The States, Territories, or the District of Columbia or portions thereof not quarantined by the Secretary of Agriculture for the specific contagious, infectious, or communicable animal disease mentioned in each part.
Group/lot identification number (GIN).
The identification number used to uniquely identify a “unit of animals” of the same species that is managed together as one group throughout the preharvest production chain. When a GIN is used, it is recorded on documents accompanying the animals moving interstate; it is not necessary to have the GIN attached to each animal.
Horses.
Horses, asses, mules, ponies, and zebras.
Inconsistent States.
Those States not included in the list of consistent States appearing in § 79.1 of this subchapter.
Interstate.
From one State into or through any other State.
Interstate commerce.
Trade, traffic, transportation, or other commerce between a place in a State and any place outside of that State, or between points within a State but through any place outside of that State.
Interstate swine movement report.
A paper or electronic document signed by a producer moving swine giving notice that a group of animals is being moved across State lines in a swine production system. This document must contain the name of the swine production system; the name, location, and premises identification number of the premises from which the swine are to be moved; the name, location, and premises identification number of the premises to which the swine are to be moved; the date of movement; and the number, age, and type of swine to be moved. This document must also contain a description of any individual or group identification associated with the swine, the name of the swine production system accredited veterinarian(s), the health status of the herd from which the swine are to be moved, including any disease of regulatory concern to APHIS or to the States involved, and an accurate statement that swine on the premises from which the swine are to be moved have been inspected by the swine production system accredited veterinarian(s) within 30 days prior to the interstate movement and consistent with the dates specified by the premises' swine production health plan and found free from signs of communicable disease.
Livestock.
All farm-raised animals.
Livestock market.
A stockyard, buying station, concentration point, or any other premises where livestock are assembled for sale or sale purposes.
Move.
To carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; to aid, abet, cause, or induce carrying, entering, importing, mailing, shipping, or transporting; to offer to carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; to receive in order to carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; or to allow any of these activities.
National Animal Health Laboratory Network (NAHLN).
The NAHLN is a nationally coordinated network and partnership of primarily Federal, State, and university-associated animal health laboratories that provide animal health diagnostic testing, methods research and development, and expertise for education and extension to detect biological threats to the nation's animal agriculture, thus protecting animal health, public health, and the nation's food supply.
National Uniform Eartagging System (NUES).
A numbering system for the official identification of individual animals in the United States that provides a nationally unique identification number for each animal.
Official Brand Inspection Agency.
The duly constituted body elected, appointed, or delegated or granted authority by a State or governmental subdivision thereof, to administer laws, regulations, ordinances or rules pertaining to the brand identification of livestock.
Official brand inspection certificate.
A certificate issued by an official brand inspection agency in any State in which such certificates are required for movement of livestock.
Official eartag.
An identification tag approved by APHIS that bears an official identification number for individual animals. The design, size, shape, color, and other characteristics of the official eartag will depend on the needs of the users, subject to the approval of the Administrator. The official eartag must be tamper-resistant and have a high retention rate in the animal.
Official eartag shield.
The shield-shaped graphic of the U.S. Route Shield with “U.S.” or the State postal abbreviation or Tribal alpha code imprinted within the shield.
Official identification device or method.
A means approved by the Administrator of applying an official identification number to an animal of a specific species or associating an official identification number with an animal or group of animals of a specific species.
Official identification number.
A nationally unique number that is permanently associated with an animal or group of animals and that adheres to one of the following systems:
(1) National Uniform Eartagging System (NUES).
(2) Animal identification number (AIN).
(3) Location-based number system.
(4) Flock-based number system.
(5) Any other numbering system approved by the Administrator for the official identification of animals.
Official swine tattoo.
A tattoo, conforming to the six-character alpha-numeric National Tattoo System, that provides a unique identification for each herd or lot of swine.
Official testing.
Testing to determine the disease status of animals for use in State-Federal programs. Tests are approved by the Administrator and conducted by qualified analysts in an approved laboratory.
Person.
Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, or joint stock company, or other legal entity.
Premises.
A location where livestock or poultry are housed or kept.
Premises identification number (PIN).
A nationally unique number assigned by a State, Tribal, and/or Federal animal health authority to a premises that is, in the judgment of the State, Tribal, and/or Federal animal health authority a geographically distinct location from other premises. The PIN may be used in conjunction with a producer's own unique livestock production numbering system to provide a nationally unique and herd-unique identification number for an animal. It may be used as a component of a group/lot identification number (GIN).
Purebred registry association.
A swine breed association formed and perpetuated for the maintenance of records of purebreeding of swine species for a specific breed whose characteristics are set forth in constitutions, by-laws, and other rules of the association.
Quarantined area.
The States, Territories, or the District of Columbia or portions thereof quarantined by the Secretary of Agriculture for the specific contagious, infectious, or communicable animal disease mentioned in each part.
Slaughter swine.
Swine being sold or moved for slaughter purposes only.
State.
Any of the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the District of Columbia, and any territories and possessions of the United States.
State animal health official.
The State official responsible for livestock and poultry disease control and eradication programs.
State representative.
An individual employed in animal health work by a State or a political subdivision thereof
and authorized by such State or political subdivision to perform the function involved.
Swine production health plan.
A written agreement developed for a swine production system designed to maintain the health of the swine and detect signs of communicable disease.
The plan must identify all premises that are part of the swine production system and that receive or send swine in interstate commerce and must provide for health monitoring of all swine within the system. Such health monitoring must include inspections by the swine production system accredited veterinarian(s). Inspections of all identified premises that contain swine that are or will be in the process of moving interstate within the swine production system and of all swine on those premises must be conducted by the accredited veterinarian(s) at intervals of no greater than 30 days. Inspections of all identified receiving premises that contain only swine that have completed their interstate movement within a single swine production system and of all swine on those premises must be conducted in accordance with State regulations. The plan must also describe the recordkeeping system of the swine production system. The plan will not be valid unless it is signed by an official of each swine production system identified in the plan, the swine production system accredited veterinarian(s), an APHIS representative, and the State animal health official from each State in which the swine production system has premises. In the plan, the swine production system must acknowledge that it has been informed of and has notified the managers of all its premises listed in the plan that any failure of the participants in the swine production system to abide by the provisions of the plan and the applicable provisions of this part and part 85 of this chapter constitutes a basis for the cancellation of the swine production health plan, as well as other administrative or criminal sanctions, as appropriate.
Swine production system.
A swine production enterprise that consists of multiple sites of production;
i.e.
, sow herds, nursery herds, and growing or finishing herds, but not including slaughter plants or livestock markets, that are connected by ownership or contractual relationships, between which swine move while remaining under the control of a single owner or a group of contractually connected owners.
Swine production system accredited veterinarian.
An accredited veterinarian who is named in a swine production health plan for a premises within a swine production system and who performs inspection of such premises and animals and other duties related to the movement of swine in a swine production system.
Tick infested.
Infested with the ticks Boophilus annulatus (Margaropus annulatus), Boophilus microplus, or Rhipicephalus evertsi evertsi.
United States.
All of the States.
United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) approved backtag.
A backtag issued by APHIS that provides a temporary unique identification for each animal.
[28 FR 5937, June 13, 1963]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 71.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 71.2
Secretary to issue rule governing quarantine and interstate movement of diseased animals, including poultry.
When the Secretary of Agriculture shall determine the fact that poultry or other animals in any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia are affected with any contagious, infectious, or communicable disease of livestock or poultry for which, in his opinion, a quarantine should be established or that other basis for a quarantine exists, notice will be given of that fact, and a rule will be issued accordingly, placing in quarantine such State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, or specified portion thereof. This rule will either absolutely forbid the interstate movement of the quarantined animals from the quarantined area or will indicate the regulations under which interstate movements may be made.
[34 FR 15641, Oct. 9, 1969]
§ 71.3
Interstate movement of diseased animals and poultry generally prohibited.
(a) Animals or poultry affected with any of the following diseases, which are endemic to the United States: Equine piroplasmosis, bovine piroplasmosis or splenetic fever, scabies in cattle, pseudorabies, acute swine erysipelas, tuberculosis, Johne's disease, brucellosis, scrapie, bluetongue, anthrax, chlamydiosis, and Newcastle disease, or any other communicable disease which is endemic to the United States, or which are cattle fever tick infested, shall not be moved interstate.
(b) Animals or poultry affected with any of the following diseases, not known to exist in the United States: foot-and-mouth disease, African swine fever, classical swine fever, Teschen disease, contagious bovine pleuropneumonia, highly pathogenic avian influenza, dourine, contagious equine metritis, vesicular exanthema, screwworms and glanders, scabies in sheep or any other communicable foreign disease not known to exist in the United States, shall not be moved interstate.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
(1) Domestic animals that have reacted to an official test for brucellosis, are not affected with any other disease referred to in this section, and are not tick infested may be moved interstate in accordance with part 78 of this chapter.
(2) Domestic animals that are positive to an official Johne's disease test, are not affected with any other disease referred to in this section, and are not tick infested may be moved interstate in accordance with part 80 of this chapter.
(3) Cattle which have reacted to the tuberculin test, which are not affected with any other disease referred to in this section and are not tick infested, may be moved interstate in accordance with the provisions of § 77.17 of this subchapter.
(4) Swine infected with or exposed to pseudorabies may be moved interstate in accordance with part 85 of this chapter.
(5) [Reserved]
(6) Sheep or goats designated, with regard to scrapie, as exposed animals, high-risk animals, suspect animals, or scrapie-positive animals, as those terms are defined in part 79 of this subchapter, may be moved interstate only in accordance with part 79 of this subchapter.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, livestock which is found to be diseased may be moved interstate in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section:
Provided,
That such livestock is not tick infested or affected with any disease referred to in this section other than the diseases named in this paragraph:
And provided further,
That such livestock is accompanied by a certificate, issued by an APHIS or State representative or accredited veterinarian stating the destination of the animals; the purpose for which they are to be moved; the number of animals covered by the certificate; the point from which the animals are moved interstate; and the name and address of the owner or shipper.
(1) Livestock affected with one or more of the following diseases may be moved interstate for immediate slaughter to a slaughtering establishment where State or Federal meat inspection is maintained; Actinomycosis, actinobacillosis, anaplasmosis, atrophic rhinitis, contagious ecthyma, foot rot, infectious keratitis, ram epididymitis, ringworm, swine influenza, arthritis (simple lesions only), and shipping fever.
(2) Cattle with slight unopened cases of actinomycosis or actinobacillosis (or both) may be moved interstate to a feed lot in the State of destination:
Provided,
That such cattle are not affected with any other disease named in this paragraph.
(3) Sheep affected with or exposed to contagious ecthyma may be moved interstate to a feed lot located in a State the laws, rules, or regulations of which require that such sheep be segregated or quarantined under a permit from an official of such State:
Provided,
That such sheep are not affected with any other disease named in this paragraph.
(4) Livestock affected with one or more of the following diseases may be
moved interstate for any purpose to a State the laws, rules, or regulations of which require that such livestock be segregated or quarantined under a permit from the appropriate livestock sanitary official of such State: actinomycosis, actinobacillosis, contagious ecthyma, foot rot, and shipping fever:
Provided,
That such livestock is not affected with any other disease named in this paragraph.
(5) Livestock affected with infectious keratitis or ringworm (or both) may be moved interstate for any purpose if treated under the supervision of an APHIS or State representative or an accredited veterinarian prior to movement:
Provided,
That such livestock is not affected with any other disease named in this paragraph. Livestock affected with infectious keratitis or ringworm (or both) and also with another disease named in this paragraph may be moved interstate only under the applicable provisions of paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section after being so treated for infectious keratitis or ringworm (or both). Such livestock will be subject to further treatment at destination, if required.
(6) Fish affected with spring viremia of carp may be moved interstate only if they are being moved directly to a facility to be processed into food for human consumption.
(7)
Other movements.
The Administrator may provide for the movement, not otherwise provided for in this paragraph, of animals affected with the diseases named in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, under such conditions as he may prescribe to prevent the spread of disease. The Administrator will promptly notify the appropriate livestock sanitary officials of the States involved of any such action.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Administrator in specific cases and under such conditions as he may prescribe to prevent the dissemination of disease may provide for the interstate movement of individual animals affected with contagious, infectious, or communicable disease to a designated diagnostic or research facility when accompanied by a permit from the appropriate livestock sanitary official in the State of destination:
Provided,
That animals so moved shall be maintained in quarantine at such designated facility until freed of disease as determined by tests recognized by the Department, until natural death, or until disposal by euthanasia.
(f) Before offering cattle or other livestock or poultry for interstate transportation, transporting them interstate, or introducing them into any stockyards or upon routes of traffic for interstate transportation, all persons, companies, or corporations are required to exercise reasonable diligence to ascertain whether such animals or poultry are affected with any contagious, infectious, or communicable disease, or have been exposed to the contagion or infection of any such disease by contact with other animals or poultry so diseased or by location in pens, cars, or other vehicles, or upon premises that have contained animals or poultry so diseased.
[28 FR 5937, June 13, 1963]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 71.3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 71.4
Maintenance of certain facilities and premises in a sanitary condition required; cleaning and disinfection, when required; animals classed as “exposed.”
(a) Yards, pens, chutes, alleys, and other facilities and premises which are used in connection with the interstate movement of livestock or poultry shall be maintained by the person in possession of the facilities and premises in a clean and sanitary condition, in accordance with good animal husbandry practices, and shall be subject to inspection by an APHIS or State representative. When an APHIS or State representative determines that such facilities or premises are not in such clean and sanitary condition and gives written notice of his determination to such person, the facilities and premises shall be cleaned and disinfected in accordance with §§ 71.7 and 71.10 through 71.12 by such person under the supervision of an APHIS or State representative or an accredited veterinarian before such premises are again used for livestock or poultry.
(b) Yards, pens, chutes, alleys, and other facilities and premises which have contained interstate shipments of cattle, sheep, swine, poultry, or other animals affected with, or carrying the infection of, any contagious, infectious, or communicable disease of livestock or poultry other than slight unopened cases of actinomycosis or actinobacillosis (or both), bovine foot rot, atrophic rhinitis, ram epididymitis, ringworm, infectious keratitis, and arthritis (simple lesions only), shall be cleaned and disinfected under the supervision of an APHIS or State representative or an accredited veterinarian in accordance with §§ 71.7 and 71.10 through 71.12 before such premises are again used for animals, and any poultry or other animals unloaded into such yards or premises before they have been so cleaned and disinfected shall thereafter be classed as “exposed” within the meaning of the regulations in this subchapter and shall not be moved interstate except in compliance with the provisions of such regulations applicable to “exposed” animals.
[34 FR 15641, Oct. 9, 1969, as amended at 55 FR 11156, Mar. 27, 1990; 55 FR 15320, Apr. 23, 1990; 62 FR 27933, May 22, 1997]
§ 71.5
Unsanitary railroad cars, trucks, boats, aircraft or other means of conveyance; interstate movement restricted.
No person who receives notice from an APHIS representative that a railroad car, truck, boat, aircraft or other means of conveyance owned or operated by such person is not in a clean and sanitary condition in accordance with good animal husbandry practices, shall thereafter use such means of conveyance in connection with the interstate movement of livestock or poultry, or move said means of conveyance interstate, until it has been cleaned and disinfected under the supervision of an APHIS or State representative or an accredited veterinarian in accordance with §§ 71.7 and 71.10 through 71.12.
[34 FR 15641, Oct. 9, 1969, as amended at 55 FR 11156, Mar. 27, 1990; 55 FR 15320, Apr. 23, 1990; 62 FR 27933, May 22, 1997]
§ 71.6
Carrier responsible for cleaning and disinfecting of railroad cars, trucks, boats, aircraft or other means of conveyance.
(a) Railroad cars, trucks, boats, aircraft, and other means of conveyance which have been used in the interstate transportation of cattle, sheep, goats, swine, poultry, or other animals affected with, or carrying the infection of, any contagious, infectious, or communicable disease of livestock or poultry, other than slight unopened cases of actinomycosis or actinobacillosis (or both), atrophic rhinitis, bovine foot rot, brucellosis, ram epididymitis, ringworm, infectious keratitis, and arthritis (simple lesions only), shall be cleaned and disinfected under APHIS supervision in accordance with §§ 71.7 and 71.10 through 71.12 at the point where the animals are unloaded and the final carrier shall be responsible for such cleaning and disinfecting:
Provided,
That when APHIS supervision is not available at such point, the means of conveyance may be cleaned and disinfected under the supervision of a State representative or an accredited veterinarian.
(b) No railroad car, truck, boat, aircraft or other means of conveyance from which poultry or other animals affected with an infectious, contagious or communicable disease of livestock or poultry, other than those specified in § 71.4(b), have been unloaded shall thereafter be used in connection with the interstate movement of animals, including poultry, or be moved interstate until it has been cleaned and disinfected by the final carrier under the supervision of an APHIS or State representative or an accredited veterinarian in accordance with §§ 71.7 and 71.10 through 71.12.
(c) If APHIS supervision or other supervision as required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section or proper cleaning and disinfecting facilities are not available at the point where the animals are unloaded, upon permission first received from the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, the means of conveyance may be forwarded empty to a point at which such supervision and facilities are available, and there be cleaned and disinfected under
supervision in accordance with §§ 71.7 and 71.10 through 71.12.
[34 FR 15641, Oct. 9, 1969, as amended at 37 FR 25337, Nov. 30, 1972; 39 FR 4465, Feb. 4, 1974; 55 FR 11156, Mar. 27, 1990; 55 FR 15320, Apr. 23, 1990; 62 FR 27934, May 22, 1997; 74 FR 14709, Apr. 1, 2009]
§ 71.7
Means of conveyance, facilities, premises, and cages and other equipment; methods of cleaning and disinfecting.
(a) Railroad cars, trucks, aircraft, or other means of conveyance, except boats, required by the regulations in this subchapter to be cleaned and disinfected shall be treated in the following manner: Remove all litter and manure from all portions of the conveyance, including any external ledges and framework; clean the exterior and interior of the conveyance; and saturate the entire interior surface, including the inner surface of the doors of the conveyance, with a permitted disinfectant specified in §§ 71.10 through 71.12.
(b) Boats required by the regulations in this subchapter to be cleaned and disinfected shall be treated in the following manner: Remove all litter and manure from the decks and stalls, and all other parts of the boat occupied or traversed by any poultry or other animals and from the portable chutes or other appliances or fixtures used in loading and unloading the animals, and saturate with a permitted disinfectant the entire surface of the deck, stalls, or other parts of the boat occupied or traversed by any animals or with which they may come in contact or which have contained litter or manure.
(c) Yards, pens, chutes, alleys, cages, and other equipment required by the regulations in this subchapter to be disinfected shall be treated in the following manner: Empty all troughs, racks, or other feeding or watering appliances; remove all litter and manure from the floors, posts, or other parts; and saturate the entire surface of the fencing, troughs, chutes, floors, walls, and other parts with a permitted disinfectant specified in §§ 71.10 through 71.12.
[34 FR 15642, Oct. 9, 1969, as amended at 61 FR 56883, Nov. 5, 1996]
§ 71.10
Permitted disinfectants.
(a) Disinfectants permitted for use on cars, boats, and other vehicles, premises, and cages and other equipment are as follows:
(1) “Cresylic disinfectant” in the proportion of at least 4 fluid ounces to 1 gallon of water.
(2) Liquefied phenol (U.S.P. strength 87 percent phenol) in the proportion of at least 6 fluid ounces to 1 gallon of water.
(3) Chlorinated lime (U.S.P. strength, 30 percent available chlorine) in the proportion of 1 pound to 3 gallons of water.
(4) Sodium hydroxide (Lye) prepared in a fresh solution in the proportion of not less than 1 pound avoirdupois of sodium hydroxide of not less than 95 percent purity to 6 gallons of water, or one 13
1/2
ounce can to 5 gallons of water. Due to the extreme caustic nature of sodium hydroxide solution, precautionary measures such as the wearing of rubber gloves, boots, raincoat, and goggles should be observed. An acid solution such as vinegar shall be kept readily available in case any of the sodium hydroxide solution should come in contact with the body.
(5) Disinfectants which are registered under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 135
et seq.
), with tuberculocidal claims, as disinfectants for general use, may be used for the purpose of this part in accordance with directions on the labels accepted in connection with their registration. However, disinfectants which fall in this category are not permitted for use in outbreaks of foreign animal diseases unless in specific cases such use is approved in advance by the Administrator.
(b) The use of “cresylic disinfectant” is permitted subject to the following conditions:
(1) The manufacturer thereof shall have obtained specific permission from APHIS for the use of his products in official disinfection. To obtain such permission manufacturers shall first submit a sample of at least 8 ounces for examination, together with a statement of the formula employed and a guaranty that the product will be maintained of a quality uniform with the sample submitted.
(2) To prevent confusion, the product of each manufacturer and distributor shall bear a distinctive trade name or brand, together with the name of the manufacturer or distributor.
(3) The product shall at all times conform to specifications for composition and performance issued by the Administrator.
[28 FR 5937, June 13, 1963, as amended at 32 FR 19157, Dec. 20, 1967; 37 FR 8864, May 2, 1972; 37 FR 9460, May 11, 1972; 55 FR 11156, Mar. 27, 1990; 55 FR 15320, Apr. 23, 1990; 61 FR 56883, Nov. 5, 1996]
§ 71.11
Cresylic disinfectant as permitted disinfectant; specifications.
The following specifications will be employed for determining the suitability of cresylic disinfectant for use under the provisions of § 71.10(b)(3):
(a) The product shall remain a uniform liquid when held at 0 °C. (32 °F.) for 3 hours (chill test).
(b) The product shall dissolve completely in 30 parts of distilled water at 25 °C. (77 °F.) within 2 minutes (solution-rate test), producing a solution entirely free from globules and not more than faintly opalescent (solubility-degree test).
(c) The product shall contain not more than 25 percent of inert ingredients (water and glycerin), not more excess alkali than the equivalent of 0.5 percent of sodium hydroxide, and not less than 21 percent of soap exclusive of water, glycerin, and excess alkali.
(d) The product shall contain not less than 50 percent and not more than 53 percent of total phenols. It shall contain less than 5 percent of benzophenol (C
6
H
5
OH).
(e) The methods of determining compliance with the specifications in paragraphs (a) to (d) of this section will be those described in United States Department of Agriculture Bulletin 1308, Chemical and Physical Methods for the Control of Saponified Cresol Solutions, so far as they are applicable.
(f) Any suitable glyceride, fat acid, or resin acid may be used in preparing the soap, but not all are suitable nor are all grades of a single product equally suitable, Also various grades of commercial cresylic acid differ in suitability. Therefore, manufacturers are cautioned to prepare a trial laboratory batch from every set of ingredients and to prove its conformity with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, before proceeding with manufacture on a factory scale.
§ 71.12
Sodium orthophenylphenate as permitted disinfectant for premises infected with tuberculosis.
(a) A permitted brand of sodium orthophenylphenate in a proportion of at least one pound to 12 gallons of water is permitted in tuberculosis eradication work for disinfecting infected premises following the removal of cattle that reacted to the tuberculin test.
(b) It is absolutely necessary that the solution be applied at a temperature of 60 °F. or over. Whenever the temperature of the building to be disinfected is below 60 °F., as indicated by a wall thermometer, the solution shall be heated to 120 °F. and higher in very cold weather, to insure effective disinfection.
§ 71.13
Inspection of shipments in transit by APHIS representative.
All persons and corporations having control of the interstate transportation of livestock or poultry shall, when directed by an APHIS inspector so to do, stop the same in transit for inspection, and if any of such poultry or other animals are found upon such inspection to be infected with any contagious, infectious, or communicable disease or to have been exposed to such infection, the person or corporation having control of the transportation of such poultry or other animals shall, upon receipt of an order from an APHIS representative so to do, cease the carriage, transportation, or moving of such poultry or other animals unless such carriage, transportation, or moving can be accomplished in accordance with the regulations in this subchapter governing the interstate movement of poultry or other animals infected with or which have been exposed to the infection of such disease, and in all cases after the discovery of such infection or exposure thereto such poultry or other
animals shall be handled in accordance with such regulations.
[28 FR 5937, June 13, 1963, as amended at 34 FR 15642, Oct. 9, 1969; 55 FR 11156, Mar. 27, 1990; 55 FR 15320, Apr. 23, 1990; 62 FR 27934, May 22, 1997]
§ 71.14
Slaughter of poultry or other animals to prevent spread of disease; ascertainment of value and compensation.
When, in order to prevent the spread of any contagious, infectious, or communicable disease, it becomes necessary to slaughter any diseased or exposed animals, including poultry, and the purchase of such animals, including poultry, by the United States is authorized by law and an appropriation is available therefor, the value of the animals, including poultry shall be ascertained and compensation made therefor in accordance with the orders or regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture.
[28 FR 5937, June 13, 1963, as amended at 34 FR 15642, Oct. 9, 1969]
§ 71.15
Movement from quarantined to free area and shipment therefrom; conditions under which permitted.
No livestock or poultry shall be shipped, trailed, driven, or hauled in private conveyance from the quarantined area in any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia to the free area in the same State, Territory, or the District of Columbia and subsequently delivered to a transportation company for shipment or moved to any other State, Territory, or the District of Columbia without complying with all Federal and State regulations pertaining to such movements.
[28 FR 5937, June 13, 1963, as amended at 34 FR 15642, Oct. 9, 1969]
§ 71.16
Inspection and certification of poultry or other animals for interstate movement.
(a)
Assistance and facilities.
When poultry or other animals are to be inspected and certified by an APHIS representative, assistance and proper facilities for restraining them shall be provided in order that a careful inspection may be made, and the representative while making the inspection shall not be interfered with in any manner; otherwise inspection will be immediately discontinued.
(b)
Certificates and other statements to accompany shipments.
Whenever inspection or treatment and the issuance of a certificate, statement, test chart, or other writing showing the performance of such inspection or treatment and the result thereof is required by any of the regulations in this subchapter as a condition precedent to the movement interstate of any poultry or other animal or class of poultry or other animals, or any poultry or other animal or class of poultry or other animals is so required to be accompanied in interstate movement by such certificate, statement, test chart, or other writing, no such poultry or other animal or poultry or other animals shall be moved interstate unless and until the following requirements are also complied with:
(1) In the case of such movement by a common carrier issuing waybills or other form or forms of billing covering the movement, the said certificate, statement, test chart, or other writing shall be delivered to such carrier at the time the poultry or other animal or poultry or other animals are delivered for shipment, and shall become the property of the carrier, and be by such carrier attached to the billing covering the transportation of such poultry or other animal or poultry or other animals, and accompany such billing to destination, and be filed with such billing for future reference.
(2) In case of such movement otherwise than by common carrier issuing waybills or other form or forms of billing, the said certificate, statement, test chart, or other writing shall accompany the poultry or other animal or poultry or other animals to destination and be delivered to the consignees, or, in case the consignor and consignee is the same person, to the first purchaser purchasing during or after such movement in interstate commerce, or to the person to whom the poultry or other animal or poultry or other animals are delivered.
[28 FR 5937, June 13, 1963, as amended at 34 FR 15642, Oct. 9, 1969; 55 FR 11156, Mar. 27, 1990; 55 FR 15320, Apr. 23, 1990; 62 FR 27934, May 22, 1997]
§ 71.17
Interstate movement of dead poultry or other animals prohibited in same car with live poultry or other animals.
No dead poultry or other animals shall be offered or accepted for transportation or transported in the same car with live poultry or other animals from the original point of shipment in any State or Territory or the District of Columbia to or through any other State, Territory, or the District of Columbia.
[28 FR 5937, June 13, 1963, as amended at 34 FR 15642, Oct. 9, 1969]
§ 71.18
[Reserved]
§ 71.19
Identification of swine in interstate commerce.
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (g) of this section, no swine may be sold, transported, received for transportation, or offered for sale or transportation, in interstate commerce, unless each swine is identified at whichever of the following comes first:
(i) The point of first commingling of the swine in interstate commerce with swine from any other source;
(ii) Upon unloading of the swine in interstate commerce at any livestock market;
(iii) Upon transfer of ownership of the swine in interstate commerce; or
(iv) Upon arrival of the swine in interstate commerce at their final destination.
(2) The identification shall be by means of identification approved by the Administrator and listed in paragraph (b) of this section. All swine shall remain so identified while they are in interstate commerce.
(3) Each person who buys or sells, for his or her own account or as the agent of the buyer or seller, transports, receives for transportation, offers for sale or transportation, or otherwise handles swine in interstate commerce, is responsible for the identification of the swine as provided by this section.
(b) Means of swine identification approved by the Administrator are:
(1) Official eartags, when used on any swine;
(2) United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) approved backtag, when used on swine moving to slaughter;
(3) Official swine tattoos, when used on swine moving to slaughter, when the use of the official swine tattoo has been requested by a user or the State animal health official, and the Administrator authorizes its use in writing based on a determination that the tattoo will be retained and visible on the carcass of the swine after slaughter, so as to provide identification of the swine;
(4) Tattoos of at least 4-characters when used on swine moving to slaughter, except sows and boars as provided in § 78.33 of this chapter;
(5) Ear notching when used on any swine, if the ear notching has been recorded in the book of record of a purebred registry association;
(6) Tattoos on the ear or inner flank of any swine, if the tattoos have been recorded in the book of record of a swine registry association;
(7) For slaughter swine and feeder swine, an eartag or tattoo bearing the premises identification number assigned by the State animal health official to the premises on which the swine originated; and
(8) Any other official identification device or method that is approved by the Administrator.
(c) Swine that are kept as a group are not required to be individually identified when in interstate commerce if:
(1) They were born on the same premises;
(2) They were raised on the same premises where they were born;
(3) They are moved in a group directly to a slaughtering establishment from the place where they were raised;
(4) They are not mixed with swine from any other premises, between the time they are born and the time they arrive at the slaughtering establishment; and
(5) They are slaughtered one after another, as a group, and not mixed with other swine at slaughter; or approved identification is applied to the swine after entry into the slaughtering establishment.
(d) Serial numbers of United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) approved backtag and official swine tattoos will be assigned to each person
who applies to the State animal health official or the area veterinarian in charge for the State in which that person maintains his/her or its place of business. Serial numbers of official eartags will be assigned to each accredited veterinarian or State or Federal representative who requests official eartags from the State animal health official or the area veterinarian in charge, whoever is responsible for issuing official eartags in that State. Persons assigned serial numbers of United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) approved backtag, official swine tattoos, and official eartags must:
(1) Record the following information on a document:
(i) All serial numbers applied to the swine;
(ii) Any other serial numbers and approved identification appearing on the swine that are needed to identify the swine to its previous owner and location;
(iii) The street address, including the city and state, or the township, county, and state, of the premises where the approved means of identification were applied; and
(iv) The telephone number, if available, of the person who owns or possesses the swine.
(2) Maintain these records at the person's place of business for 2 years; and
(3) Make these records available for inspection and copying during ordinary business hours (8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday) upon request by any authorized employee of the United States Department of Agriculture, upon that employee's request and presentation of his or her official credentials.
(e)(1) Each person who buys or sells, for his or her own account or as the agent of the buyer or seller, transports, receives for transportation, offers for sale or transportation, or otherwise handles swine in interstate commerce, must keep records relating to the transfer of ownership, shipment, or handling of the swine, such as yarding receipts, sale tickets, invoices, and waybills upon which is recorded:
(i) All serial numbers and other approved means of identification appearing on the swine that are necessary to identify it to the person from whom it was purchased or otherwise obtained; and
(ii) The street address, including city and state, or the township, county, and state, and the telephone number, if available, of the person from whom the swine were purchased or otherwise obtained.
(2) Each person required to keep records under this paragraph must maintain the records at his/her or its place of business for at least 2 years after the person has sold or otherwise disposed of the swine to another person, and for such further period as the Administrator may require by written notice to the person, for purposes of any investigation or action involving the swine identified in the records. The person shall make the records available for inspection and copying during ordinary business hours (8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday) by any authorized employee of the United States Department of Agriculture, upon that employee's request and presentation of his or her official credentials.
(f) No person may remove or tamper with any approved means of identification required to be on swine pursuant to this section while it is in interstate commerce, except at the time of slaughter as provided in 9 CFR 309.16(e).
(g)
Swine moving interstate within a swine production system.
Swine moving within a swine production system to other than slaughter or a livestock market are not required to be individually identified when moved in interstate commerce under the following conditions:
(1) The swine may be moved interstate only to another premises identified in a valid swine production health plan for that swine production system.
(2) The swine production system must operate under a valid swine production health plan, in which both the sending and receiving States have agreed to allow the movement.
(3) The swine must have been found free from signs of any communicable
disease during the most recent inspection of the premises by the swine production system accredited veterinarian(s) within 30 days prior to movement.
(4) Prior to the movement of any swine, the producer(s) moving swine must deliver the required interstate swine movement report to the following individuals identified in the swine production health plan:
(i) The swine production system accredited veterinarian for the premises from which the swine are to be moved, and
(ii) The State animal health officials for the sending and receiving States, and any other State employees designated by the State animal health officials.
(5) The receiving premises must not commingle swine received from different premises in a manner that prevents identification of the premises that sent the swine or groups of swine. This may be achieved by use of permanent premises or individual identification marks on animals, by keeping groups of animals received from one premises physically separate from animals received from other premises, or by any other effective means.
(6) Each premises must maintain, for 3 years after their date of creation, records that will allow an APHIS representative or State animal health official to trace any animal on the premises back to its previous premises, and must maintain copies of each swine production health plan signed by the producer, all interstate swine movement reports issued by the producer, and all reports the swine production system accredited veterinarian(s) issue documenting the health status of the swine on the premises.
(7) Each premises must allow APHIS representatives and State animal health officials access to the premises upon request to inspect animals and review records.
(8) Once a month, each swine production system must send APHIS a written summary based on the interstate swine movement report data that shows how many animals were moved in the past month, the premises from which they were moved, and the premises to which they were moved.
(h)
Cancellation of and withdrawal from a swine production health plan.
The following procedures apply to cancellation of, or withdrawal from, a swine production health plan:
(1) A State animal health official may cancel his or her State's participation in a swine production health plan by giving written notice to all swine producers, APHIS representatives, accredited veterinarians, and other State animal health officials listed in the plan. Withdrawal shall be effective upon the date specified by the State animal health official in the notice, but for shipments in transit, withdrawal shall become effective 7 days after the date of such notice. Upon withdrawal of a State, the swine production health plan may continue to operate among the other States and parties signatory to the plan.
(2) A swine production system may withdraw one or more of its premises from participation in the plan upon giving written notice to the Administrator, the accredited veterinarian(s), all swine producers listed in the plan, and State animal health officials listed in the plan. Withdrawal shall be effective upon the date specified by the swine production system in the written notice, but for shipments in transit, withdrawal shall become effective 7 days after the date of such notice.
(3) The Administrator may cancel a swine production health plan by giving written notice to all swine producers, accredited veterinarians, and State animal health officials listed in the plan. The Administrator shall cancel a swine production health plan after determining that swine movements within the swine production system have occurred that were not in compliance with the swine production health plan or with other requirements of this chapter. Before a swine health production plan is canceled, an APHIS representative will inform a representative of the swine production system of the reasons for the proposed cancellation. The swine production system may appeal the proposed cancellation in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after being informed of the reasons for the proposed cancellation. The appeal must include all of the facts and
reasons upon which the swine production system relies to show that the reasons for the proposed cancellation are incorrect or do not support the cancellation. The Administrator will grant or deny the appeal in writing as promptly as circumstances permit, stating the reason for his or her decision. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing will be held to resolve the conflict. Rules of practice concerning the hearing will be adopted by the Administrator. However, cancellation of the disputed swine production health plan shall become effective pending final determination in the proceeding if the Administrator determines that such action is necessary to protect the public's health, interest, or safety. Such cancellation shall become effective upon oral or written notification, whichever is earlier, to the swine production system representative. In the event of oral notification, written confirmation shall be given as promptly as circumstances allow. This cancellation shall continue in effect pending the completion of the proceeding, and any judicial review thereof, unless otherwise ordered by the Administrator.
[53 FR 40385, Oct. 14, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 11156, Mar. 27, 1990; 55 FR 15320, Apr. 23, 1990; 59 FR 67612, Dec. 30, 1994; 62 FR 27934, May 22, 1997; 62 FR 54758, Oct. 22, 1997; 66 FR 65603, Dec. 20, 2001; 69 FR 64649, Nov. 8, 2004; 74 FR 14709, Apr. 1, 2009; 78 FR 2064, Jan. 9, 2013]
§ 71.20
Approval of livestock facilities.
(a) To qualify for approval by the Administrator as an approved livestock facility
1
and to retain such designation, the individual legally responsible for the day-to-day operations of the livestock facility shall execute the following agreement:
1
A list of approved livestock facilities may be obtained by writing to National Animal Health Programs, VS, APHIS, 4700 River Road Unit 36, Riverdale, MD 20737-1231.

# AGREEMENT—APPROVED LIVESTOCK FACILITY FOR HANDLING LIVESTOCK PURSUANT TO TITLE 9 OF THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
[
Name of facility
]
[
Address and telephone number of facility
]
I, [
name of the individual legally responsible for the day-to-day operations of the livestock facility
], operator of [
name of facility
], hereby agree to maintain and operate the livestock facility located at [
address of premises
] in accordance with the applicable provisions of this agreement and Chapter I, Title 9, of the Code of Federal Regulations (9 CFR).

# Cooperation
(1) The State animal health official and the area veterinarian in charge shall be provided with a schedule of the facility's sale days, which shall indicate the types of animals that will be handled at the facility on each sale day, and shall be apprised of any changes to that schedule prior to the implementation of the changes.
(2) An accredited veterinarian, State representative, or APHIS representative shall be on the facility premises on all sale days to perform duties in accordance with State and Federal regulations.
(3) State representatives and APHIS representatives shall be granted access to the facility during normal business hours to evaluate whether the facility and its operations are in compliance with the applicable provisions of this agreement and 9 CFR parts 71, 75, 78, 79, and 85.
