(2) A registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization that, if it holds funds or securities deposited as margin for security futures products or futures in a portfolio margin account in a bank, as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(6)), obtains and preserves written notification from the bank at which it holds such funds and securities or at which such funds and securities are held on its behalf. The written notification will state that all funds and/or securities deposited with the bank as margin (including customer security futures products and futures in a portfolio margin account), or held by the bank and pledged to such registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing agency as margin, are being held by the bank for the exclusive benefit of clearing members of the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization (subject to the interest of such registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization therein), and are being kept separate from any other accounts maintained by the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization with the bank. The written notification also will provide that such funds and/or securities will at no time be used directly or indirectly as security for a loan to the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization by the bank, and will be subject to no right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the bank or any person claiming through the bank. This provision, however, will not prohibit a registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization from pledging customer funds or securities as collateral to a bank for any purpose that the rules of the Commission or the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization otherwise permit; and
(3) A registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization establishes, documents, and maintains:
(i) Safeguards in the handling, transfer, and delivery of cash and securities;
(ii) Fidelity bond coverage for its employees and agents who handle customer funds or securities. In the case of agents of a registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization, the agent may provide the fidelity bond coverage; and
(iii) Provisions for periodic examination by independent public accountants; and
(iv) A derivatives clearing organization that, if it is not otherwise registered with the Commission, has provided the Commission with a written undertaking, in a form acceptable to the Commission, executed by a duly authorized person at the derivatives clearing organization, to the effect that, with respect to the clearance and settlement of the customer security futures products and futures in a portfolio margin account of the broker or dealer, the derivatives clearing organization will permit the Commission to examine the books and records of the derivatives clearing organization for compliance with the requirements set forth in § 240.15c3-3a, Note G (b)(1) through (3).
(c) Item 14 will apply only if a broker or dealer determines, at least annually, that the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization with which the broker or dealer has on deposit margin related to securities future products or futures in a portfolio margin account meets the conditions of this Note G.
Note H.
(a) Item 15 must include the amount of margin required and on deposit with a clearing agency registered with the Commission under section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) that clears, settles, and novates transactions in U.S. Treasury securities (“qualified clearing agency”) to the extent that the margin is:
(1) In the form of cash, U.S. Treasury securities, or qualified customer securities; and
(2) Being used to margin U.S. Treasury securities positions of the customers of the broker or dealer that are cleared, settled, and novated by the qualified clearing agency.
(b) Item 15 will apply only if the cash and securities required and on deposit at the qualified clearing agency:
(1)(i) Are cash owed by the broker or dealer to the customer of the broker or dealer that was delivered by the broker or dealer to the qualified clearing agency to meet a margin requirement resulting from that customer's U.S. Treasury securities positions cleared, settled, and novated at the qualified clearing agency and not for any other customer's or the broker's or dealer's U.S. Treasury securities positions cleared, settled, and novated at the qualified clearing agency;
(ii) U.S. Treasury securities or qualified customer securities held in custody by the broker or dealer for the customer of the broker or dealer that were delivered by the broker or dealer to the qualified clearing
agency to meet a margin requirement resulting from that customer's U.S. Treasury securities positions cleared, settled, and novated at the qualified clearing agency and not for any other customer's or the broker's or dealer's U.S. Treasury securities positions cleared, settled, and novated at the qualified clearing agency; or
(iii) U.S. Treasury securities owned by the broker or dealer that were delivered by the broker or dealer to the qualified clearing agency to meet a margin requirement resulting from a customer's U.S. Treasury securities positions cleared, settled, and novated at the qualified clearing agency under the following conditions:
(A) The broker or dealer did not owe to the customer or hold in custody for the customer sufficient cash, U.S. Treasury securities, and/or qualified customer securities to meet a margin requirement resulting from that customer's U.S. Treasury securities positions cleared, settled, and novated at the qualified clearing agency at the time the margin requirement arose;
(B) The broker or dealer calls for the customer to deliver a sufficient amount of cash, U.S. Treasury securities, and/or qualified customer securities to meet the margin requirement on the day the margin requirement arose; and
(C) The broker or dealer receives a sufficient amount of cash, U.S. Treasury securities, and/or qualified customer securities to meet the margin requirement by the close of the next business day after the margin requirement arose.
(2) Are treated in accordance with rules of the qualified clearing agency that impose the following requirements and the qualified clearing agency and broker or dealer are in compliance with the requirements of the rules (as applicable):
(i) Rules requiring the qualified clearing agency to calculate a separate margin amount for each customer of the broker or dealer and the broker or dealer to deliver that amount of margin for each customer on a gross basis;
(ii) Rules limiting the qualified clearing agency from investing cash delivered by the broker or dealer to margin U.S. Treasury security transactions of the customers of the broker or dealer or cash realized through using U.S. Treasury securities delivered by the broker or dealer for that purpose in any asset other than U.S. Treasury securities with a maturity of one year or less;
(iii) Rules requiring that the cash, U.S. Treasury securities, and qualified customer securities used to margin the U.S. Treasury securities positions of the customers of the broker or dealer be held in an account of the broker or dealer at the qualified clearing agency that is segregated from any other account of the broker or dealer at the qualified clearing agency and that is:
(A) Used exclusively to clear, settle, novate, and margin U.S. Treasury securities transactions of the customers of the broker or dealer;
(B) Designated “Special Clearing Account for the Exclusive Benefit of the Customers of [name of broker or dealer]”;
(C) Subject to a written notice of the qualified clearing agency provided to and retained by the broker or dealer that the cash, U.S. Treasury securities, and qualified customer securities in the account are being held by the qualified clearing agency for the exclusive benefit of the customers of the broker or dealer in accordance with the regulations of the Commission and are being kept separate from any other accounts maintained by the broker or dealer or any other clearing member at the qualified clearing agency; and
(D) Subject to a written contract between the broker or dealer and the qualified clearing agency which provides that the cash, U.S. Treasury securities, and qualified customer securities in the account are not available to cover claims arising from the broker or dealer or any other clearing member defaulting on an obligation to the qualified clearing agency or subject to any other right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the qualified clearing agency or any person claiming through the qualified clearing agency, except a right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim resulting from a cleared U.S. Treasury securities transaction of a customer of the broker or dealer effected in the account;
(iv) Rules requiring the qualified clearing agency to hold the customer cash, U.S. Treasury securities, and qualified customer securities used to margin the U.S. Treasury securities positions of the customers of the broker or dealer itself or in an account of the clearing agency at a U.S. Federal Reserve Bank or a “bank,” as that term is defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(6)), that is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and that the account at the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank or bank must be:
(A) Segregated from any other account of the qualified clearing agency or any other person at the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank or bank and used exclusively to hold cash, U.S. Treasury securities, and qualified customer securities to meet current margin requirements of the qualified clearing agency resulting from positions in U.S. Treasury securities of the customers of the broker or dealer members of the qualified clearing agency;
(B) Subject to a written notice of the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank or bank provided to and retained by the qualified clearing agency that the cash, U.S. Treasury securities, and qualified customer securities in the account are being held by the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank or bank pursuant to § 240.15c3-3 and are being kept separate from any other accounts
maintained by the qualified clearing agency or any other person at the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank or bank; and
(C) Subject to a written contract between the qualified clearing agency and the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank or bank which provides that the cash, U.S. Treasury securities, and qualified customer securities in the account are subject to no right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank or bank or any person claiming through the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank or bank; and
(v) Rules requiring systems, controls, policies, and procedures to return cash, U.S. Treasury securities, and qualified customer securities to the broker or dealer that are no longer needed to meet a current margin requirement resulting from positions in U.S. Treasury securities of the customers of the broker or dealer; and
(3) The Commission has approved rules of the qualified clearing agency that meet the conditions of this Note H and has published (and not subsequently withdrawn) a notice that brokers or dealers may include a debit in the customer reserve formula when depositing cash, U.S. Treasury securities, and/or qualified customer securities to meet a margin requirement of the qualified clearing agency resulting from positions in U.S. Treasury securities of the customers of the broker or dealer.
(c) As used in this Note H, the term “qualified customer securities” means the securities of a customer of the broker or dealer (other than U.S. Treasury securities) that are held in custody by the broker or dealer for the customer and that under the rules of the qualified clearing agency are eligible to be used to margin U.S. Treasury securities positions of the customer that are cleared, settled, and novated by the qualified clearing agency.

# Notes Regarding the PAB Reserve Bank Account Computation
Note 1.
Broker-dealers should use the formula in Exhibit A for the purposes of computing the PAB reserve requirement, except that references to “accounts,” “customer accounts, or “customers” will be treated as references to PAB accounts.
Note 2.
Any credit (including a credit applied to reduce a debit) that is included in the computation required by § 240.15c3-3 with respect to customer accounts (the “customer reserve computation”) may not be included as a credit in the computation required by § 240.15c3-3 with respect to PAB accounts (the “PAB reserve computation”).
Note 3.
Note E(1) to § 240.15c3-3a does not apply to the PAB reserve computation.
Note 4.
Note E(3) to § 240.15c3-3a which reduces debit balances by 1 percent does not apply to the PAB reserve computation.
Note 5.
Interest receivable, floor brokerage, and commissions receivable of another broker or dealer from the broker or dealer (excluding clearing deposits) that are otherwise allowable assets under § 240.15c3-1 need not be included in the PAB reserve computation, provided the amounts have been clearly identified as payables on the books of the broker or dealer. Commissions receivable and other receivables of another broker or dealer from the broker or dealer that are otherwise non-allowable assets under § 240.15c3-1 and clearing deposits of another broker or dealer may be included as “credit balances” for purposes of the PAB reserve computation, provided the commissions receivable and other receivables are subject to immediate cash payment to the other broker or dealer and the clearing deposit is subject to payment within 30 days.
Note 6.
Credits included in the PAB reserve computation that result from the use of securities held for a PAB account (“PAB securities”) that are pledged to meet intra-day margin calls in a cross-margin account established between the Options Clearing Corporation and any regulated derivatives clearing organization may be reduced to the extent that the excess margin held by the other clearing corporation in the cross-margin relationship is used the following business day to replace the PAB securities that were previously pledged. In addition, balances resulting from a portfolio margin account that are segregated pursuant to Commodity Futures Trading Commission regulations need not be included in the PAB Reserve Bank Account computation.
Note 7.
Deposits received prior to a transaction pending settlement which are $5 million or greater for any single transaction or $10 million in aggregate may be excluded as credits from the PAB reserve computation if such balances are placed and maintained in a separate PAB Reserve Bank Account by 12 p.m. Eastern Time on the following business day. Thereafter, the money representing any such deposits may be withdrawn to complete the related transactions without performing a new PAB reserve computation.
Note 8.
A credit balance resulting from a PAB reserve computation may be reduced by the amount that items representing such credits are swept into money market funds or mutual funds of an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 on or prior to 10 a.m. Eastern Time on the deposit date provided that the credits swept into any such fund are not subject to any right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the investment company or the broker or dealer. Any credits that have been swept into money market funds or mutual funds must be maintained in the name of a particular broker or for the benefit of another broker.
Note 9.
Clearing deposits required to be maintained at registered clearing agencies may be included as debits in the PAB reserve computation to the extent the percentage of the deposit, which is based upon the clearing agency's aggregate deposit requirements (
e.g.,
dollar trading volume), that relates to the proprietary business of other brokers and dealers can be identified. However, Note H to Item 15 of § 240.15c3-3a applies with respect to margin delivered to a U.S. Treasury securities clearing agency.
Note 10.
A broker or dealer that clears PAB accounts through an affiliate or third party clearing broker must include these PAB account balances and the omnibus PAB account balance in its PAB reserve computation.
[78 FR 51904, Aug. 21, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 1550, Jan. 8, 2014; 89 FR 2826, Jan. 16, 2024]
§ 240.15c3-3b
Exhibit B—Formula for determination of security-based swap customer reserve requirements of brokers and dealers under § 240.15c3-3.
Credits
Debits
1. Free credit balances and other credit balances in the accounts carried for security-based swap customers (See Note A)
$______
2. Monies borrowed collateralized by securities in accounts carried for security-based swap customers (See Note B)
$______
3. Monies payable against security-based swap customers' securities loaned (See Note C)
$______
4. Security-based swap customers' securities failed to receive (See Note D)
$______
5. Credit balances in firm accounts which are attributable to principal sales to security-based swap customers
$______
6. Market value of stock dividends, stock splits and similar distributions receivable outstanding over 30 calendar days
$______
7. Market value of short security count differences over 30 calendar days old
$______
8. Market value of short securities and credits (not to be offset by longs or by debits) in all suspense accounts over 30 calendar days
$______
9. Market value of securities which are in transfer in excess of 40 calendar days and have not been confirmed to be in transfer by the transfer agent or the issuer during the 40 days
$______
10. Debit balances in accounts carried for security-based swap customers, excluding unsecured accounts and accounts doubtful of collection (See Note E)
$______
11. Securities borrowed to effectuate short sales by security-based swap customers and securities borrowed to make delivery on security-based swap customers' securities failed to deliver
$______
12. Failed to deliver of security-based swap customers' securities not older than 30 calendar days
$______
13. Margin required and on deposit with the Options Clearing Corporation for all option contracts written or purchased in accounts carried for security-based swap customers (See Note F)
$______
14. Margin related to security futures products written, purchased or sold in accounts carried for security-based swap customers required and on deposit in a qualified clearing agency account at a clearing agency registered with the Commission under section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) or a derivatives clearing organization registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1) (See Note G)
$______
15. Margin related to cleared security-based swap transactions in accounts carried for security-based swap customers required and on deposit in a qualified clearing agency account at a clearing agency registered with the Commission pursuant to section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1)
$______
16. Margin related to non-cleared security-based swap transactions in accounts carried for security-based swap customers required and held in a qualified registered security-based swap dealer account at a security-based swap dealer or at a third-party custodial account
$______
Total Credits
$______
Total Debits
$______
Excess of Credits over Debits
$______
Note A. Item 1 must include all outstanding drafts payable to security-based swap customers which have been applied against free credit balances or other credit balances and must also include checks drawn in excess of bank balances per the records of the broker or dealer.
Note B. Item 2 must include the amount of options-related or security futures product-related Letters of Credit obtained by a member of a registered clearing agency or a derivatives clearing organization which are collateralized by security-based swap customers' securities, to the extent of the member's margin requirement at the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization.
Note C. Item 3 must include in addition to monies payable against security-based swap customers' securities loaned the amount by which the market value of securities loaned exceeds the collateral value received from the lending of such securities.
Note D. Item 4 must include in addition to security-based swap customers' securities failed to receive the amount by which the market value of securities failed to receive and outstanding more than thirty (30) calendar days exceeds their contract value.
Note E. (1) Debit balances in accounts carried for security-based swap customers must be reduced by the amount by which a specific security (other than an exempted security) which is collateral for margin requirements exceeds in aggregate value 15 percent of the aggregate value of all securities which collateralize all accounts receivable; provided, however, the required reduction must not be in excess of the amount of the debit balance required to be excluded because of this concentration rule. A specified security is deemed to be collateral for an account only to the extent it is not an excess margin security.
(2) Debit balances in special omnibus accounts, maintained in compliance with the requirements of section 4(b) of Regulation T under the Act (12 CFR 220.4(b)) or similar accounts carried on behalf of a security-based swap dealer, must be reduced by any deficits in such accounts (or if a credit, such credit must be increased) less any calls for margin, marks to the market, or other required deposits which are outstanding 5 business days or less.
(3) Debit balances in security-based swap customers' accounts included in the formula under item 10 must be reduced by an amount equal to 1 percent of their aggregate value.
(4) Debit balances in accounts of household members and other persons related to principals of a broker or dealer and debit balances in accounts of affiliated persons of a broker or dealer must be excluded from the reserve formula, unless the broker or dealer can demonstrate that such debit balances are directly related to credit items in the formula.
(5) Debit balances in accounts (other than omnibus accounts) must be reduced by the amount by which any single security-based swap customer's debit balance exceeds 25 percent (to the extent such amount is greater than $50,000) of the broker's or dealer's tentative net capital (
i.e.,
net capital prior to securities haircuts) unless the broker or dealer can demonstrate that the debit balance is directly related to credit items in the Reserve Formula. Related accounts (e.g.,
the separate accounts of an individual, accounts under common control or subject to cross guarantees) will be deemed to be a single security-based swap customer's account for purposes of this provision.
If the registered national securities exchange or the registered national securities association having responsibility for examining the broker or dealer (“designated examining authority”) is satisfied, after taking into account the circumstances of the concentrated account including the quality, diversity, and marketability of the collateral securing the debit balances in accounts subject to this provision, that the concentration of debit balances is appropriate, then such designated examining authority may, by order, grant a partial or plenary exception from this provision. The debit balance may be included in the reserve formula computation for five business days from the day the request is made.
(6) Debit balances of joint accounts, custodian accounts, participations in hedge funds or limited partnerships or similar type accounts or arrangements that include both assets of a person who would be excluded from the definition of security-based swap customer (“non-security-based swap customer”) and assets of a person or persons includible in the definition of security-based swap customer must be included in the Reserve Formula in the following manner: if the percentage ownership of the non-security-based swap customer is less than 5 percent then the entire debit balance shall be included in the formula; if such percentage ownership is between 5 percent and 50 percent then the portion of the debit balance attributable to the non-security-based swap customer must be excluded from the formula unless the broker or dealer can demonstrate that the debit balance is directly related to credit items in the formula; if such percentage ownership is greater than 50 percent, then the entire debit balance must be excluded from the formula unless the broker or dealer can demonstrate that the debit balance is directly related to credit items in the formula.
Note F. Item 13 must include the amount of margin required and on deposit with Options Clearing Corporation to the extent such margin is represented by cash, proprietary qualified securities, and letters of credit collateralized by security-based swap customers' securities.
Note G. (a) Item 14 must include the amount of margin required and on deposit with a clearing agency registered with the Commission under section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) or a derivatives clearing organization registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1) for security-based swap customer accounts to the extent that the margin is represented by cash, proprietary qualified securities, and letters of credit collateralized by security-based swap customers' securities.
(b) Item 14 will apply only if the broker or dealer has the margin related to security futures products on deposit with:
(1) A registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization that:
(i) Maintains security deposits from clearing members in connection with regulated options or futures transactions and assessment power over member firms that equal a combined total of at least $2 billion, at least $500 million of which must be in the form of security deposits. For purposes of this Note G, the term “security deposits” refers to a general fund, other than margin deposits or their equivalent, that consists of cash or securities held by a registered clearing agency or derivative clearing organization;
(ii) Maintains at least $3 billion in margin deposits; or
(iii) Does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(ii) of this Note G, if the Commission has determined, upon a written request for exemption by or for the benefit of the broker or dealer, that the broker or dealer may utilize such a registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization. The Commission may, in its sole discretion, grant such an exemption subject to such conditions as are appropriate under the circumstances, if the Commission determines that such conditional or unconditional exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors; and
(2) A registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization that, if it holds funds or securities deposited as margin for security futures products in a bank, as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(6)), obtains and preserves written notification from the bank at which it holds such funds and securities or at which such funds and securities are held on its behalf. The written notification will state that all funds and/or securities deposited with the bank as margin (including security-based swap customer security futures products margin), or held by the bank and pledged to such registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing agency as margin, are being held by the bank for the exclusive benefit of clearing members of the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization (subject to the interest of such registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization therein), and are being kept separate from any other accounts maintained by the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization with the bank. The written notification also will provide that such funds and/or securities will at no time be used directly or indirectly as security for a loan to the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization by the bank, and will be subject to no right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the bank or any person claiming through the bank. This provision, however, will not prohibit a registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization from pledging security-based swap customer funds or securities as collateral to a bank for any purpose that the rules of the Commission or the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization otherwise permit; and
(3) A registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization that establishes, documents, and maintains:
(i) Safeguards in the handling, transfer, and delivery of cash and securities;
(ii) Fidelity bond coverage for its employees and agents who handle security-based swap customer funds or securities. In the case of agents of a registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization, the agent may provide the fidelity bond coverage; and
(iii) Provisions for periodic examination by independent public accountants; and
(4) A derivatives clearing organization that, if it is not otherwise registered with the Commission, has provided the Commission with a written undertaking, in a form acceptable to the Commission, executed by a duly authorized person at the derivatives clearing organization, to the effect that, with respect to the clearance and settlement of the security-based swap customer security futures products of the broker or dealer, the derivatives clearing organization will permit the Commission to examine the books and records of the derivatives clearing organization for compliance with the requirements set forth in § 240.15c3-3a, Note G. (b)(1) through (3).
(c) Item 14 will apply only if a broker or dealer determines, at least annually, that the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization with which the broker or dealer has on deposit margin related to security futures products meets the conditions of this Note G.
[84 FR 44050, Aug. 22, 2019]
§ 240.15c3-4
Internal risk management control systems for OTC derivatives dealers.
(a) An OTC derivatives dealer shall establish, document, and maintain a system of internal risk management controls to assist it in managing the risks associated with its business activities, including market, credit, leverage, liquidity, legal, and operational risks.
(b) An OTC derivatives dealer shall consider the following when adopting its internal control system guidelines, policies, and procedures:
(1) The ownership and governance structure of the OTC derivatives dealer;
(2) The composition of the governing body of the OTC derivatives dealer;
(3) The management philosophy of the OTC derivatives dealer;
(4) The scope and nature of established risk management guidelines;
(5) The scope and nature of the permissible OTC derivatives activities;
(6) The sophistication and experience of relevant trading, risk management, and internal audit personnel;
(7) The sophistication and functionality of information and reporting systems; and
(8) The scope and frequency of monitoring, reporting, and auditing activities.
(c) An OTC derivatives dealer's internal risk management control system shall include the following elements:
(1) A risk control unit that reports directly to senior management and is independent from business trading units;
(2) Separation of duties between personnel responsible for entering into a transaction and those responsible for recording the transaction in the books and records of the OTC derivatives dealer;
(3) Periodic reviews (which may be performed by internal audit staff) and annual reviews (which must be conducted by independent certified public accountants) of the OTC derivatives dealer's risk management systems;
(4) Definitions of risk, risk monitoring, and risk management; and
(5) Written guidelines, approved by the OTC derivatives dealer's governing body, that include and discuss the following:
(i) The OTC derivatives dealer's consideration of the elements in paragraph (b) of this section;
(ii) The scope, and the procedures for determining the scope, of authorized activities or any nonquantitative limitation on the scope of authorized activities;
(iii) Quantitative guidelines for managing the OTC derivatives dealer's overall risk exposure;
(iv) The type, scope, and frequency of reporting by management on risk exposures;
(v) The procedures for and the timing of the governing body's periodic review of the risk monitoring and risk management written guidelines, systems, and processes;
(vi) The process for monitoring risk independent of the business or trading units whose activities create the risks being monitored;
(vii) The performance of the risk management function by persons independent from or senior to the business or trading units whose activities create the risks;
(viii) The authority and resources of the groups or persons performing the risk monitoring and risk management functions;
(ix) The appropriate response by management when internal risk management guidelines have been exceeded;
(x) The procedures to monitor and address the risk that an OTC derivatives transaction contract will be unenforceable;
(xi) The procedures requiring the documentation of the principal terms of OTC derivatives transactions and other relevant information regarding such transactions;
(xii) The procedures authorizing specified employees to commit the OTC derivatives dealer to particular types of transactions;
(xiii) The procedures to prevent the OTC derivatives dealer from engaging in any securities transaction that is not permitted under § 240.15a-1; and
(xiv) The procedures to prevent the OTC derivatives dealer from improperly relying on the exceptions to
§ 240.15a-1(c) and § 240.15a-1(d), including the procedures to determine whether a counterparty is acting in the capacity of principal or agent.
(d) Management must periodically review, in accordance with written procedures, the OTC derivatives dealer's business activities for consistency with risk management guidelines including that:
(1) Risks arising from the OTC derivatives dealer's OTC derivatives activities are consistent with prescribed guidelines;
(2) Risk exposure guidelines for each business unit are appropriate for the business unit;
(3) The data necessary to conduct the risk monitoring and risk management function as well as the valuation process over the OTC derivatives dealer's portfolio of products is accessible on a timely basis and information systems are available to capture, monitor, analyze, and report relevant data;
(4) Procedures are in place to enable management to take action when internal risk management guidelines have been exceeded;
(5) Procedures are in place to monitor and address the risk that an OTC derivatives transaction contract will be unenforceable;
(6) Procedures are in place to identify and address any deficiencies in the operating systems and to contain the extent of losses arising from unidentified deficiencies;
(7) Procedures are in place to authorize specified employees to commit the OTC derivatives dealer to particular types of transactions, to specify any quantitative limits on such authority, and to provide for the oversight of their exercise of such authority;
(8) Procedures are in place to prevent the OTC derivatives dealer from engaging in any securities transaction that is not permitted under § 240.15a-1;
(9) Procedures are in place to prevent the OTC derivatives dealer from improperly relying on the exceptions to § 240.15a-1(c) and § 240.15a-1(d), including procedures to determine whether a counterparty is acting in the capacity of principal or agent;
(10) Procedures are in place to provide for adequate documentation of the principal terms of OTC derivatives transactions and other relevant information regarding such transactions;
(11) Personnel resources with appropriate expertise are committed to implementing the risk monitoring and risk management systems and processes; and
(12) Procedures are in place for the periodic internal and external review of the risk monitoring and risk management functions.
[63 FR 59400, Nov. 3, 1998]
§ 240.15c3-5
Risk management controls for brokers or dealers with market access.
(a) For the purpose of this section:
(1) The term
market access
shall mean:
(i) Access to trading in securities on an exchange or alternative trading system as a result of being a member or subscriber of the exchange or alternative trading system, respectively; or
(ii) Access to trading in securities on an alternative trading system provided by a broker-dealer operator of an alternative trading system to a non-broker-dealer.
(2) The term
regulatory requirements
shall mean all federal securities laws, rules and regulations, and rules of self-regulatory organizations, that are applicable in connection with market access.
(b) A broker or dealer with market access, or that provides a customer or any other person with access to an exchange or alternative trading system through use of its market participant identifier or otherwise, shall establish, document, and maintain a system of risk management controls and supervisory procedures reasonably designed to manage the financial, regulatory, and other risks of this business activity. Such broker or dealer shall preserve a copy of its supervisory procedures and a written description of its risk management controls as part of its books and records in a manner consistent with § 240.17a-4(e)(7). A broker-dealer that routes orders on behalf of an exchange or alternative trading system for the purpose of accessing other trading centers with protected quotations in compliance with Rule 611 of Regulation NMS (§ 242.611) for NMS
stocks, or in compliance with a national market system plan for listed options, shall not be required to comply with this rule with regard to such routing services, except with regard to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(c) The risk management controls and supervisory procedures required by paragraph (b) of this section shall include the following elements:
(1)
Financial risk management controls and supervisory procedures.
The risk management controls and supervisory procedures shall be reasonably designed to systematically limit the financial exposure of the broker or dealer that could arise as a result of market access, including being reasonably designed to:
(i) Prevent the entry of orders that exceed appropriate pre-set credit or capital thresholds in the aggregate for each customer and the broker or dealer and, where appropriate, more finely-tuned by sector, security, or otherwise by rejecting orders if such orders would exceed the applicable credit or capital thresholds; and
(ii) Prevent the entry of erroneous orders, by rejecting orders that exceed appropriate price or size parameters, on an order-by-order basis or over a short period of time, or that indicate duplicative orders.
(2)
Regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures.
The risk management controls and supervisory procedures shall be reasonably designed to ensure compliance with all regulatory requirements, including being reasonably designed to:
(i) Prevent the entry of orders unless there has been compliance with all regulatory requirements that must be satisfied on a pre-order entry basis;
(ii) Prevent the entry of orders for securities for a broker or dealer, customer, or other person if such person is restricted from trading those securities;
(iii) Restrict access to trading systems and technology that provide market access to persons and accounts pre-approved and authorized by the broker or dealer; and
(iv) Assure that appropriate surveillance personnel receive immediate post-trade execution reports that result from market access.
(d) The financial and regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures described in paragraph (c) of this section shall be under the direct and exclusive control of the broker or dealer that is subject to paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) Notwithstanding the foregoing, a broker or dealer that is subject to paragraph (b) of this section may reasonably allocate, by written contract, after a thorough due diligence review, control over specific regulatory risk management controls and supervisory procedures described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section to a customer that is a registered broker or dealer, provided that such broker or dealer subject to paragraph (b) of this section has a reasonable basis for determining that such customer, based on its position in the transaction and relationship with an ultimate customer, has better access than the broker or dealer to that ultimate customer and its trading information such that it can more effectively implement the specified controls or procedures.
(2) Any allocation of control pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not relieve a broker or dealer that is subject to paragraph (b) of this section from any obligation under this section, including the overall responsibility to establish, document, and maintain a system of risk management controls and supervisory procedures reasonably designed to manage the financial, regulatory, and other risks of market access.
(e) A broker or dealer that is subject to paragraph (b) of this section shall establish, document, and maintain a system for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management controls and supervisory procedures required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and for promptly addressing any issues.
(1) Among other things, the broker or dealer shall review, no less frequently than annually, the business activity of the broker or dealer in connection with market access to assure the overall effectiveness of such risk management controls and supervisory procedures. Such review shall be conducted in accordance with written procedures and shall be documented. The broker or
dealer shall preserve a copy of such written procedures, and documentation of each such review, as part of its books and records in a manner consistent with § 240.17a-4(e)(7) and § 240.17a-4(b), respectively.
(2) The Chief Executive Officer (or equivalent officer) of the broker or dealer shall, on an annual basis, certify that such risk management controls and supervisory procedures comply with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and that the broker or dealer conducted such review, and such certifications shall be preserved by the broker or dealer as part of its books and records in a manner consistent with § 240.17a-4(b).
(f) The Commission, by order, may exempt from the provisions of this section, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, any broker or dealer, if the Commission determines that such exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest consistent with the protection of investors.
[75 FR 69825, Nov. 15, 2010]
§ 240.15c6-1
Settlement cycle.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, a broker or dealer shall not effect or enter into a contract for the purchase or sale of a security (other than an exempted security, a government security, a municipal security, commercial paper, bankers' acceptances, or commercial bills) that provides for payment of funds and delivery of securities later than the first business day after the date of the contract unless otherwise expressly agreed to by the parties at the time of the transaction.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to:
(1) Contracts for the purchase or sale of limited partnership interests that are not listed on an exchange or for which quotations are not disseminated through an automated quotation system of a registered securities association;
(2) Security-based swaps; or
(3) Contracts for the purchase or sale of securities that the Commission may from time to time, taking into account then existing market practices, exempt by order from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, if the Commission determines that such exemption is consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors.
(c) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to contracts for the sale for cash of securities that are priced after 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time (ET) on the date such securities are priced and that are sold by an issuer to an underwriter pursuant to a firm commitment underwritten offering registered under the Securities Act of 1933 or sold to an initial purchaser by a broker-dealer participating in such offering provided that a broker or dealer shall not effect or enter into a contract for the purchase or sale of such securities that provides for payment of funds and delivery of securities later than the second business day after the date of the contract unless otherwise expressly agreed to by the parties at the time of the transaction.
(d) For purposes of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, the parties to a contract shall be deemed to have expressly agreed to an alternate date for payment of funds and delivery of securities at the time of the transaction for a contract for the sale for cash of securities pursuant to a firm commitment offering if the managing underwriter and the issuer have agreed to such date for all securities sold pursuant to such offering and the parties to the contract have not expressly agreed to another date for payment of funds and delivery of securities at the time of the transaction.
[88 FR 13952, Mar. 6, 2023]
§ 240.15c6-2
Same-day allocation, confirmation, and affirmation.
(a) Any broker or dealer engaging in the allocation, confirmation, or affirmation process with another party or parties to achieve settlement of a securities transaction that is subject to the requirements of § 240.15c6-1(a) shall:
(1) Enter into a written agreement with the relevant parties to ensure completion of the allocation, confirmation, affirmation, or any combination thereof, for the transaction as soon as technologically practicable and no later than the end of the day on trade
date in such form as necessary to achieve settlement of the transaction; or
(2) Establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure completion of the allocation, confirmation, affirmation, or any combination thereof, for the transaction as soon as technologically practicable and no later than the end of the day on trade date in such form as necessary to achieve settlement of the transaction.
(b) To ensure completion of the allocation, confirmation, affirmation, or any combination thereof for the transaction as soon as technologically practicable and no later than the end of the day on trade date, the reasonably designed written policies and procedures required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall:
(1) Identify and describe any technology systems, operations, and processes that the broker or dealer uses to coordinate with other relevant parties, including investment advisers and custodians, to ensure completion of the allocation, confirmation, or affirmation process for the transaction;
(2) Set target time frames on trade date for completing the allocation, confirmation, and affirmation for the transaction;
(3) Describe the procedures that the broker or dealer will follow to ensure the prompt communication of trade information, investigate any discrepancies in trade information, and adjust trade information to help ensure that the allocation, confirmation, and affirmation can be completed by the target time frames on trade date;
(4) Describe how the broker or dealer plans to identify and address delays if another party, including an investment adviser or a custodian, is not promptly completing the allocation or affirmation for the transaction, or if the broker or dealer experiences delays in promptly completing the confirmation; and
(5) Measure, monitor, and document the rates of allocations, confirmations, and affirmations completed as soon as technologically practicable and no later than the end of the day on trade date.
[88 FR 13953, Mar. 6, 2023]

# Regulation 15D: Reports of Registrants Under the Securities Act of 1933

# Annual Reports
§ 240.15d-1
Requirement of annual reports.
Every registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 shall file an annual report, on the appropriate form authorized or prescribed therefor, for the fiscal year in which the registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 became effective and for each fiscal year thereafter, unless the registrant is exempt from such filing by section 15(d) of the Act or rules thereunder. Annual reports shall be filed within the period specified in the appropriate report form.
[47 FR 17052, Apr. 21, 1982, as amended at 61 FR 49960, Sept. 24, 1996]
§ 240.15d-2
Special financial report.
(a) If the registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 did not contain certified financial statements for the registrant's last full fiscal year (or for the life of the registrant if less than a full fiscal year) preceding the fiscal year in which the registration statement became effective, the registrant shall, within 90 days after the effective date of the registration statement, file a special report furnishing certified financial statements for such last full fiscal year or other period, as the case may be, meeting the requirements of the form appropriate for annual reports of the registrant. If the registrant is a foreign private issuer as defined in § 230.405 of this chapter, then the special financial report shall be filed on the appropriate form for annual reports of the registrant and shall be filed by the later of 90 days after the date on which the registration statement became effective, or four months following the end of the registrant's latest full fiscal year.
(b) The report shall be filed under cover of the facing sheet of the form appropriate for annual reports of the registrant, shall indicate on the facing sheet that it contains only financial statements for the fiscal year in question, and shall be signed in accordance
with the requirements of the annual report form.
[13 FR 9326, Dec. 31, 1948, as amended at 36 FR 1891, Feb. 3, 1971; 58 FR 60306, Nov. 15, 1993; 73 FR 58324, Oct. 6, 2008; 83 FR 50222, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 240.15d-3
Reports for depositary shares registered on Form F-6.
Annual and other reports are not required with respect to Depositary Shares registered on Form F-6 (§ 230.36 of this chapter). The exemption in this section does not apply to any deposited securities registered on any other form under the Securities Act of 1933.
[62 FR 39768, July 24, 1997]
§ 240.15d-4
Reporting by Form 40-F registrants.
A registrant that is eligible to use Forms 40-F and 6-K and files reports in accordance therewith shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of Regulation 15D (§§ 240.15d-1 through 240.15d-21 of this chapter).
[56 FR 30075, July 1, 1991]
§ 240.15d-5
Reporting by successor issuers.
(a) Where in connection with a succession by merger, consolidation, exchange of securities, acquisition of assets or otherwise, securities of any issuer that is not required to file reports pursuant to section 15(d) (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) of the Act are issued to the holders of any class of securities of another issuer that is required to file such reports, the duty to file reports pursuant to such section shall be deemed to have been assumed by the issuer of the class of securities so issued. The successor issuer shall, after the consummation of the succession, file reports in accordance with section 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) and the rules and regulations thereunder, unless that issuer is exempt from filing such reports or the duty to file such reports is suspended under section 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)).
(b) An issuer that is deemed to be a successor issuer according to paragraph (a) of this section shall file reports on the same forms as the predecessor issuer except as follows:
(1) An issuer that is not a foreign issuer shall not be eligible to file on Form 20-F (§ 240.220f of this chapter).
(2) A foreign private issuer shall be eligible to file on Form 20-F.
(c) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to an issuer of securities in connection with a succession that was registered on Form F-8 (§ 239.38 of this chapter), Form F-10 (§ 239.40 of this chapter) or Form F-80 (§ 239.41 of this chapter).
[36 FR 3805, Feb. 27, 1971, as amended at 48 FR 46740, Oct. 14, 1983; 56 FR 30075, July 1, 1991; 62 FR 39768, July 24, 1997]
§ 240.15d-6
Suspension of duty to file reports.
If the duty of an issuer to file reports pursuant to section 15(d) of the Act as to any fiscal year is suspended as provided in section 15(d) of the Act, such issuer shall, within 30 days after the beginning of the first fiscal year, file a notice on Form 15 informing the Commission of such suspension unless Form 15 has already been filed pursuant to Rule 12h-3. If the suspension resulted from the issuer's merger into, or consolidation with, another issuer or issuers, the notice shall be filed by the successor issuer.
(Secs. 12(g)(4), 12(h), 13(a), 15(d), 23(a), 48 Stat. 892, 894, 895, 901; sec. 203(a), 49 Stat. 704; secs. 3, 8, 49 Stat. 1377, 1379; secs. 3, 4, 6, 78 Stat. 565-568, 569, 570-574; sec. 18, 89 Stat. 155; sec. 204, 91 Stat. 1500; 15 U.S.C. 78
l
(g)(4), 78
l
(h), 78m(a), 78o(d), 78w(a))
[49 FR 12690, Mar. 30, 1984]

# Other Reports
§ 240.15d-10
Transition reports.
(a) Every issuer that changes its fiscal closing date shall file a report covering the resulting transition period between the closing date of its most recent fiscal year and the opening date of its new fiscal year;
Provided, however,
that an issuer shall file an annual report for any fiscal year that ended before the date on which the issuer determined to change its fiscal year end. In no event shall the transition report cover a period of 12 or more months.
(b) The report pursuant to this section shall be filed for the transition period not more than the number of days
specified in paragraph (j) of this section after either the close of the transition period or the date of the determination to change the fiscal closing date, whichever is later. The report shall be filed on the form appropriate for annual reports of the issuer, shall cover the period from the close of the last fiscal year end and shall indicate clearly the period covered. The financial statements for the transition period filed therewith shall be audited. Financial statements, which may be unaudited, shall be filed for the comparable period of the prior year, or a footnote, which may be unaudited, shall state for the comparable period of the prior year, revenues, gross profits, income taxes, income or loss from continuing operations and net income or loss. The effects of any discontinued operations as classified under the provisions of generally accepted accounting principles also shall be shown, if applicable. Per share data based upon such income or loss and net income or loss shall be presented in conformity with applicable accounting standards. Where called for by the time span to be covered, the comparable period financial statements or footnote shall be included in subsequent filings.
(c) If the transition period covers a period of less than six months, in lieu of the report required by paragraph (b) of this section, a report may be filed for the transition period on Form 10-Q (§ 249.308 of this chapter) not more than the number of days specified in paragraph (j) of this section after either the close of the transition period or the date of the determination to change the fiscal closing date, whichever is later. The report on Form 10-Q shall cover the period from the close of the last fiscal year end and shall indicate clearly the period covered. The financial statements filed therewith need not be audited but, if they are not audited, the issuer shall file with the first annual report for the newly adopted fiscal year separate audited statements of income and cash flows covering the transition period. The notes to financial statements for the transition period included in such first annual report may be integrated with the notes to financial statements for the full fiscal period. A separate audited balance sheet as of the end of the transition period shall be filed in the annual report only if the audited balance sheet as of the end of the fiscal year before the transition period is not filed. Schedules need not be filed in transition reports on Form 10-Q.
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, if the transition period covers a period of one month or less, the issuer need not file a separate transition report if either:
(1) The first report required to be filed by the issuer for the newly adopted fiscal year after the date of the determination to change the fiscal year end is an annual report, and that report covers the transition period as well as the fiscal year; or
(2)(i) The issuer files with the first annual report for the newly adopted fiscal year separate audited statements of income and cash flows covering the transition period; and
(ii) The first report required to be filed by the issuer for the newly adopted fiscal year after the date of the determination to change the fiscal year end is a quarterly report on Form 10-Q; and
(iii) Information on the transition period is included in the issuer's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the first quarterly period (except the fourth quarter) of the newly adopted fiscal year that ends after the date of the determination to change the fiscal year. The information covering the transition period required by Part II and Item 2 of Part I may be combined with the information regarding the quarter. However, the financial statements required by Part I, which may be unaudited, shall be furnished separately for the transition period.
(e) Every issuer required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q pursuant to § 240.15d-13 that changes its fiscal year end shall:
(1) File a quarterly report on Form 10-Q within the time period specified in General Instruction A.1. to that form for any quarterly period (except the fourth quarter) of the old fiscal year that ends before the date on which the issuer determined to change its fiscal year end, except that the issuer need not file such quarterly report if the
date on which the quarterly period ends also is the date on which the transition period ends;
(2) File a quarterly report on Form 10-Q within the time specified in General Instruction A.1 to that form for each quarterly period of the old fiscal year within the transition period. In lieu of a quarterly report for any quarter of the old fiscal year within the transition period, the issuer may file a quarterly report on Form 10-Q for any period of three months within the transition period that coincides with a quarter of the newly adopted fiscal year if the quarterly report is filed within the number of days specified in paragraph (j) of this section after the end of such three month period, provided the issuer thereafter continues filing quarterly reports on the basis of the quarters of the newly adopted fiscal year;
(3) Commence filing quarterly reports for the quarters of the new fiscal year no later than the quarterly report for the first quarter of the new fiscal year that ends after the date on which the issuer determined to change the fiscal year end; and
(4) Unless such information is or will be included in the transition report, or the first annual report on Form 10-K for the newly adopted fiscal year, include in the initial quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the newly adopted fiscal year information on any period beginning on the first day after the period covered by the issuer's final quarterly report on Form 10-Q or annual report on Form 10-K for the old fiscal year. The information covering such period required by Part II and Item 2 of Part I may be combined with the information regarding the quarter. However, the financial statements required by Part I, which may be unaudited, shall be furnished separately for such period.

# Note to paragraphs (
c

# ) and (
e

# ):
If it is not practicable or cannot be cost-justified to furnish in a transition report on Form 10-Q or a quarterly report for the newly adopted fiscal year financial statements for corresponding periods of the prior year where required, financial statements may be furnished for the quarters of the preceding fiscal year that most nearly are comparable if the issuer furnishes an adequate discussion of seasonal and other factors that could affect the comparability of information or trends reflected, an assessment of the comparability of the data, and a representation as to the reason recasting has not been undertaken.
(f) Every successor issuer that has a different fiscal year from that of its predecessor(s) shall file a transition report pursuant to this section, containing the required information about each predecessor, for the transition period, if any, between the close of the fiscal year covered by the last annual report of each predecessor and the date of succession. The report shall be filed for the transition period on the form appropriate for annual reports of the issuer not more than the number of days specified in paragraph (j) of this section after the date of the succession, with financial statements in conformity with the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. If the transition period covers a period of less than six months, in lieu of a transition report on the form appropriate for the issuer's annual reports, the report may be filed for the transition period on Form 10-Q not more than the number of days specified in paragraph (j) of this section after the date of the succession, with financial statements in conformity with the requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the transition period covers a period of one month or less, the successor issuer need not file a separate transition report if the information is reported by the successor issuer in conformity with the requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(g)(1) Paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section shall not apply to foreign private issuers.
(2) Every foreign private issuer that changes its fiscal closing date shall file a report covering the resulting transition period between the closing date of its most recent year and the opening date of its new fiscal year. In no event shall a transition report cover a period longer than 12 months.
(3) The report for the transition period shall be filed on Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter) responding to all items to which such issuer is required to respond when Form 20-F is used as an annual report. The financial statements for the transition period
filed therewith shall be audited. The report shall be filed within four months after either the close of the transition period or the date on which the issuer made the determination to change the fiscal closing date, whichever is later.
(4) If the transition period covers a period of six or fewer months, in lieu of the report required by paragraph (g)(3) of this section, a report for the transition period may be filed on Form 20-F responding to Items 5, 8.A.7., 13, 14, and 17 or 18 within three months after either the close of the transition period or the date on which the issuer made the determination to change the fiscal closing date, whichever is later. The financial statements required by either Item 17 or Item 18 shall be furnished for the transition period. Such financial statements may be unaudited and condensed as permitted in Article 10 of Regulation S-X (§ 210.10-01 of this chapter), but if the financial statements are unaudited and condensed, the issuer shall file with the first annual report for the newly adopted fiscal year separate audited statements of income and cash flows covering the transition period.
(5) Notwithstanding the foregoing in paragraphs (g)(2), (g)(3), and (g)(4) of this section, if the transition period covers a period of one month or less, a foreign private issuer need not file a separate transition report if the first annual report for the newly adopted fiscal year covers the transition period as well as the fiscal year.
(h) The provisions of this rule shall not apply to investment companies required to file reports pursuant to Rule 30a-1 (§ 270.30a-1 of this chapter) under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
).
(i) No filing fee shall be required for a transition report filed pursuant to this section.
(j)(1) For transition reports to be filed on the form appropriate for annual reports of the issuer, the number of days shall be:
(i) 60 days (75 days for fiscal years ending before December 15, 2006) for large accelerated filers (as defined in § 240.12b-2);
(ii) 75 days for accelerated filers (as defined in § 240.12b-2); and
(iii) 90 days for all other issuers; and
(2) For transition reports to be filed on Form 10-Q (§ 249.308 of this chapter), the number of days shall be:
(i) 40 days for large accelerated filers and accelerated filers (as defined in § 240.12b-2); and
(ii) 45 days for all other issuers.
(k)(1) Paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section shall not apply to asset-backed issuers.
(2) Every asset-backed issuer that changes its fiscal closing date shall file a report covering the resulting transition period between the closing date of its most recent fiscal year and the opening date of its new fiscal year. In no event shall a transition report cover a period longer than 12 months.
(3) The report for the transition period shall be filed on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter) responding to all items to which such asset-backed issuer is required to respond pursuant to General Instruction J. of Form 10-K. Such report shall be filed within 90 days after the later of either the close of the transition period or the date on which the issuer made the determination to change the fiscal closing date.
(4) Notwithstanding the foregoing in paragraphs (k)(2) and (k)(3) of this section, if the transition period covers a period of one month or less, an asset-backed issuer need not file a separate transition report if the first annual report for the newly adopted fiscal year covers the transition period as well as the fiscal year.
(5) Any obligation of the asset-backed issuer to file distribution reports pursuant to § 240.15d-17 will continue to apply regardless of a change in the asset-backed issuer's fiscal closing date.

# Note 1:
In addition to the report or reports required to be filed pursuant to this section, every issuer, except a foreign private issuer or an investment company required to file reports pursuant to § 270.30b1-1 of this chapter, that changes its fiscal closing date is required to file a Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter) report that includes the information required by Item 5.03 of Form 8-K within the period specified in General Instruction B.1. to that form.

# Note 2:
The report or reports to be filed pursuant to this section must include the certification required by § 240.15d-14.
[54 FR 10318, Mar. 13, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 30075, July 1, 1991; 64 FR 53912, Oct. 5, 1999; 67 FR 57289, Sept. 9, 2002; 67 FR 58505, Sept. 16, 2002; 69 FR 15618, Mar. 25, 2004; 69 FR 68236, Nov. 23, 2004; 70 FR 1622, Jan. 7, 2005; 70 FR 76642, Dec. 27, 2005; 73 FR 978, Jan. 4, 2008; 73 FR 58324, Oct. 6, 2008; 81 FR 82020, Nov. 18, 2016; 83 FR 50222, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 240.15d-11
Current reports on Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter).
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, every registrant subject to § 240.15d-1 shall file a current report on Form 8-K within the period specified in that form unless substantially the same information as that required by Form 8-K has been previously reported by the registrant.
(b) This section shall not apply to foreign governments, foreign private issuers required to make reports on Form 6-K (§ 249.306 of this chapter) pursuant to § 240.15d-16, issuers of American Depositary Receipts for securities of any foreign issuer, or investment companies required to file reports pursuant to § 270.30a-1 of this chapter under the Investment Company Act of 1940, except where such an investment company is required to file notice of a blackout period pursuant to § 245.104 of this chapter.
(c) No failure to file a report on Form 8-K that is required solely pursuant to Item 1.01, 1.02, 1.05, 2.03, 2.04, 2.05, 2.06, 4.02(a), 5.02(e), or 6.03 of Form 8-K shall be deemed to be a violation of 15 U.S.C. 78j(b) and § 240.10b-5.
[42 FR 4429, Jan. 25, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 27939, July 9, 1985; 68 FR 4355, Jan. 28, 2002; 69 FR 15618, Mar. 25, 2004; 70 FR 1622, Jan. 7, 2005; 71 FR 53263, Sept. 8, 2006; 75 FR 56792, Sept. 16, 2010; 81 FR 82020, Nov. 18, 2016; 88 FR 51943, Aug. 4, 2023; 90 FR 9690, Feb. 18, 2025]
§ 240.15d-13
Quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (§ 249.308 of this chapter).
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, every issuer that has securities registered pursuant to the Securities Act and is required to file annual reports pursuant to section 15(d) of the Act on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter) shall file a quarterly report on Form 10-Q (§ 249.308 of this chapter) within the period specified in General Instruction A.1 to that form for each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the issuer, commencing with the first fiscal quarter following the most recent fiscal year for which full financial statements were included in the registration statement, or, if the registration statement included financial statements for an interim period after the most recent fiscal year end meeting the requirements of Article 10 of Regulation S-X, or Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X for smaller reporting companies, for the first fiscal quarter after the quarter reported upon in the registration statement. The first quarterly report of the issuer shall be filed either within 45 days after the effective date of the registration statement or on or before the date on which such report would have been required to be filed if the issuer had been required to file reports on Form 10-Q as of its last fiscal quarter, whichever is later.
(b) The provisions of this rule shall not apply to the following issuers:
(1) Investment companies required to file reports pursuant to § 270.30a-1;
(2) Foreign private issuers required to file reports pursuant to § 240.15d-16; and
(3) Asset-backed issuers required to file reports pursuant to § 240.15d-17.
(c) Part I of the quarterly reports on Form 10-Q need not be filed by:
(1) Mutual life insurance companies; or
(2) Mining companies not in the production stage but engaged primarily in the exploration for the development of mineral deposits other than oil, gas or coal, if all of the following conditions are met:
(i) The registrant has not been in production during the current fiscal year or the two years immediately prior thereto; except that being in production for an aggregate period of not more than eight months over the three-year period shall not be a violation of this condition.
(ii) Receipts from the sale of mineral products or from the operations of mineral producing properties by the registrant and its subsidiaries combined have not exceeded $500,000 in any of the
most recent six years and have not aggregated more than $1,500,000 in the most recent six fiscal years.
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, the financial information required by Part I of Form 10-Q shall not be deemed to be “filed” for the purpose of section 18 of the Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section of the Act, but shall be subject to all other provisions of the Act.
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, the financial information required by Part I of Form 10-Q, or financial information submitted in lieu thereof pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, shall not be deemed to be “filed” for the purpose of section 18 of the Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section of the Act, but shall be subject to all other provisions of the Act.
[42 FR 24065, May 12, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 63255, Dec. 31, 1981; 50 FR 27939, July 9, 1985; 54 FR 10319, Mar. 13, 1989, 61 FR 30403, June 14, 1996; 70 FR 1622, Jan. 7, 2005; 73 FR 978, Jan. 4, 2008; 81 FR 82020, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 240.15d-14
Certification of disclosure in annual and quarterly reports.
(a) Each report, including transition reports, filed on Form 10-Q, Form 10-K, Form 20-F or Form 40-F (§ 249.308a, § 249.310, § 249.220f or § 249.240f of this chapter) under section 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)), other than a report filed by an Asset-Backed Issuer (as defined in § 229.1101 of this chapter) or a report on Form 20-F filed under § 240.15d-19, must include certifications in the form specified in the applicable exhibit filing requirements of such report, and such certifications must be filed as an exhibit to such report. Each principal executive and principal financial officer of the issuer, or persons performing similar functions, at the time of filing of the report must sign a certification. The principal executive and principal financial officers of an issuer may omit the portion of the introductory language in paragraph 4 as well as language in paragraph 4(b) of the certification that refers to the certifying officers' responsibility for designing, establishing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting for the issuer until the issuer becomes subject to the internal control over financial reporting requirements in § 240.13a-15 or § 240.15d-15.
(b) Each periodic report containing financial statements filed by an issuer pursuant to section 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) must be accompanied by the certifications required by Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code (18 U.S.C. 1350) and such certifications must be furnished as an exhibit to such report as specified in the applicable exhibit requirements for such report. Each principal executive and principal financial officer of the issuer (or equivalent thereof) must sign a certification. This requirement may be satisfied by a single certification signed by an issuer's principal executive and principal financial officers.
(c) A person required to provide a certification specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (d) of this section may not have the certification signed on his or her behalf pursuant to a power of attorney or other form of confirming authority.
(d) Each annual report and transition report filed on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter) by an asset-backed issuer under section 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) must include a certification in the form specified in the applicable exhibit filing requirements of such report and such certification must be filed as an exhibit to such report. Terms used in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section have the same meaning as in Item 1101 of Regulation AB (§ 229.1101 of this chapter).
(e) With respect to asset-backed issuers, the certification required by paragraph (d) of this section must be signed by either:
(1) The senior officer in charge of securitization of the depositor if the depositor is signing the report; or
(2) The senior officer in charge of the servicing function of the servicer if the servicer is signing the report on behalf of the issuing entity. If multiple servicers are involved in servicing the pool assets, the senior officer in charge of the servicing function of the master servicer (or entity performing the equivalent function) must sign if a representative of the servicer is to sign the report on behalf of the issuing entity.
(f) The certification requirements of this section do not apply to an Interactive Data File, as defined in § 232.11 of this chapter (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T).
[67 FR 57289, Sept. 9, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 36666, June 18, 2003; 70 FR 1622, Jan. 7, 2005; 70 FR 6572, Feb. 8, 2005; 70 FR 42247, July 21, 2005; 71 FR 76596, Dec. 21, 2006; 73 FR 979, Jan. 4, 2008; 74 FR 6819, Feb. 10, 2009; 83 FR 40878, Aug. 16, 2018]
§ 240.15d-15
Controls and procedures.
(a) Every issuer that files reports under section 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)), other than an Asset Backed Issuer (as defined in § 229.1101 of this chapter), a small business investment company registered on Form N-5 (§§ 239.24 and 274.5 of this chapter), or a unit investment trust as defined in section 4(2) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-4(2)), must maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in paragraph (e) of this section) and, if the issuer either had been required to file an annual report pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)) for the prior fiscal year or had filed an annual report with the Commission for the prior fiscal year, internal control over financial reporting (as defined in paragraph (f) of this section).
(b) Each such issuer's management must evaluate, with the participation of the issuer's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, the effectiveness of the issuer's disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of each fiscal quarter, except that management must perform this evaluation:
(1) In the case of a foreign private issuer (as defined in § 240.3b-4) as of the end of each fiscal year; and
(2) In the case of an investment company registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), within the 90-day period prior to the filing date of each report requiring certification under § 270.30a-2 of this chapter.
(c) The management of each such issuer, that either had been required to file an annual report pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)) for the prior fiscal year or previously had filed an annual report with the Commission for the prior fiscal year, other than an investment company registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, must evaluate, with the participation of the issuer's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, the effectiveness, as of the end of each fiscal year, of the issuer's internal control over financial reporting. The framework on which management's evaluation of the issuer's internal control over financial reporting is based must be a suitable, recognized control framework that is established by a body or group that has followed due-process procedures, including the broad distribution of the framework for public comment. Although there are many different ways to conduct an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to meet the requirements of this paragraph, an evaluation that is conducted in accordance with the interpretive guidance issued by the Commission in Release No. 34-55929 will satisfy the evaluation required by this paragraph.
(d) The management of each such issuer that previously either had been required to file an annual report pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)) for the prior fiscal year or previously had filed an annual report with the Commission for the prior fiscal year, other than an investment company registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), must evaluate, with the participation of the issuer's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, any change in the issuer's internal control over financial reporting, that occurred during each of the issuer's fiscal quarters, or fiscal year in the case of a foreign private issuer, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the issuer's internal control over financial reporting.
(e) For purposes of this section, the term disclosure controls and procedures means controls and other procedures of an issuer that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the issuer in the reports that it files or submits under the Act
(15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by an issuer in the reports that it files or submits under the Act is accumulated and communicated to the issuer's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
(f) The term
internal control over financial reporting
is defined as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the issuer's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the issuer's board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:
(1) Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer;
(2) Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the issuer are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the issuer; and
(3) Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the issuer's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
[68 FR 36667, June 18, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 1622, Jan. 7, 2005; 71 FR 76596, Dec. 21, 2006; 72 FR 35322, June 27, 2007]
§ 240.15d-16
Reports of foreign private issuers on Form 6-K [17 CFR 249.306].
(a) Every foreign private issuer which is subject to Rule 15d-1 [17 CFR 240.15d-1] shall make reports on Form 6-K, except that this rule shall not apply to:
(1) Investment companies required to file reports pursuant to § 270.30a-1 of this chapter;
(2) Issuers of American depositary receipts for securities of any foreign issuer; and
(3) Asset-backed issuers, as defined in § 229.1101 of this chapter.
(b) Such reports shall be transmitted promptly after the information required by Form 6-K is made public by the issuer, by the country of its domicile or under the laws of which it was incorporated or organized or by a foreign securities exchange with which the issuer has filed the information.
(c) Reports furnished pursuant to this rule shall not be deemed to be “filed” for the purpose of section 18 of the Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
[32 FR 7849, May 30, 1967, as amended at 44 FR 70137, Dec. 6, 1979; 47 FR 54781, Dec. 6, 1982; 50 FR 27939, July 9, 1985; 56 FR 30075, July 1, 1991; 70 FR 1622, Jan. 7, 2005; 81 FR 82020, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 240.15d-17
Reports of asset-backed issuers on Form 10-D (§ 249.312 of this chapter).
Every asset-backed issuer subject to § 240.15d-1 shall make reports on Form 10-D (§ 249.312 of this chapter). Such reports shall be filed within the period specified in Form 10-D.
[70 FR 1622, Jan. 7, 2005]
§ 240.15d-18
Compliance with servicing criteria for asset-backed securities.
(a) This section applies to every class of asset-backed securities subject to the reporting requirements of section 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)). Terms used in this section have the same meaning as in Item 1101 of Regulation AB (§ 229.1101 of this chapter).
(b)
Reports on assessments of compliance with servicing criteria for asset-backed securities required.
With regard to a class of asset-backed securities subject to the reporting requirements
of section 15(d) of the Act, the annual report on Form 10-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter) for such class must include from each party participating in the servicing function a report regarding its assessment of compliance with the servicing criteria specified in paragraph (d) of Item 1122 of Regulation AB (§ 229.1122(d) of this chapter), as of and for the period ending the end of each fiscal year, with respect to asset-backed securities transactions taken as a whole involving the party participating in the servicing function and that are backed by the same asset type backing the class of asset-backed securities (including the asset-backed securities transaction that is to be the subject of the report on Form 10-K for that fiscal year).
(c)
Attestation reports on assessments of compliance with servicing criteria for asset-backed securities required.
With respect to each report included pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the annual report on Form 10-K must also include a report by a registered public accounting firm that attests to, and reports on, the assessment made by the asserting party. The attestation report on assessment of compliance with servicing criteria for asset-backed securities must be made in accordance with standards for attestation engagements issued or adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.

# Note to § 240.15
d

# -18:
If multiple parties are participating in the servicing function, a separate assessment report and attestation report must be included for each party participating in the servicing function. A party participating in the servicing function means any entity (e.g., master servicer, primary servicers, trustees) that is performing activities that address the criteria in paragraph (d) of Item 1122 of Regulation AB (§ 229.1122(d) of this chapter), unless such entity's activities relate only to 5% or less of the pool assets.
[70 FR 1622, Jan. 7, 2005]
§ 240.15d-19
Reports by shell companies on Form 20-F.
Every foreign private issuer that was a shell company, other than a business combination related shell company, immediately before a transaction that causes it to cease to be a shell company shall, within four business days of completion of that transaction, file a report on Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter) containing the information that would be required if the issuer were filing a form for registration of securities on Form 20-F to register under the Act all classes of the issuer's securities subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 (15 U.S.C. 78m) or section 15(d) (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) of the Act upon consummation of the transaction, with such information reflecting the registrant and its securities upon consummation of the transaction.
[70 FR 42247, July 21, 2005]
§ 240.15d-20
Plain English presentation of specified information.
(a) Any information included or incorporated by reference in a report filed under section 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) that is required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 402, 403, 404 or 407 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.402, § 229.403, § 229.404 or § 229.407 of this chapter) must be presented in a clear, concise and understandable manner. You must prepare the disclosure using the following standards:
(1) Present information in clear, concise sections, paragraphs and sentences;
(2) Use short sentences;
(3) Use definite, concrete, everyday words;
(4) Use the active voice;
(5) Avoid multiple negatives;
(6) Use descriptive headings and subheadings;
(7) Use a tabular presentation or bullet lists for complex material, wherever possible;
(8) Avoid legal jargon and highly technical business and other terminology;
(9) Avoid frequent reliance on glossaries or defined terms as the primary means of explaining information. Define terms in a glossary or other section of the document only if the meaning is unclear from the context. Use a glossary only if it facilitates understanding of the disclosure; and
(10) In designing the presentation of the information you may include pictures, logos, charts, graphs and other design elements so long as the design is not misleading and the required information is clear. You are encouraged to
use tables, schedules, charts and graphic illustrations that present relevant data in an understandable manner, so long as such presentations are consistent with applicable disclosure requirements and consistent with other information in the document. You must draw graphs and charts to scale. Any information you provide must not be misleading.
(b) [Reserved]

# Note to § 240.15
d

# -20:
In drafting the disclosure to comply with this section, you should avoid the following:
1. Legalistic or overly complex presentations that make the substance of the disclosure difficult to understand;
2. Vague “boilerplate” explanations that are imprecise and readily subject to different interpretations;
3. Complex information copied directly from legal documents without any clear and concise explanation of the provision(s); and
4. Disclosure repeated in different sections of the document that increases the size of the document but does not enhance the quality of the information.
[71 FR 53263, Sept. 8, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 979, Jan. 4, 2008]

# Exemption of Certain Issuers From Section 15(
d

# ) of the Act
§ 240.15d-21
Reports for employee stock purchase, savings and similar plans.
(a) Separate annual and other reports need not be filed pursuant to section 15(d) of the Act with respect to any employee stock purchase, savings or similar plan:
Provided,
(1) The issuer of the stock or other securities offered to employees through their participation in the plan files annual reports on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter); and
(2) Such issuer furnishes, as a part of its annual report on such form or as an amendment thereto, the financial statements required by Form 11-K (§ 249.311 of this chapter) with respect to the plan.
(b) If the procedure permitted by this Rule is followed, the financial statements required by Form 11-K with respect to the plan shall be filed within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year of the plan, either as a part of or as an amendment to the annual report of the issuer for its last fiscal year,
provided that
if the fiscal year of the plan ends within 62 days prior to the end of the fiscal year of the issuer, such information, financial statements and exhibits may be furnished as a part of the issuer's next annual report. If a plan subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 uses the procedure permitted by this Rule, the financial statements required by Form 11-K shall be filed within 180 days after the plan's fiscal year end.
[27 FR 7871, Aug. 9, 1962, as amended at 55 FR 23929, June 13, 1990; 73 FR 979, Jan. 4, 2008]
§ 240.15d-22
Reporting regarding asset-backed securities under section 15(d) of the Act.
(a) With respect to an offering of asset-backed securities registered pursuant to § 230.415(a)(1)(vii) or § 230.415(a)(1)(xii) of this chapter:
(1) Annual and other reports need not be filed pursuant to section 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) regarding any class of securities to which such registration statement relates until the first bona fide sale in a takedown of securities under the registration statement; and
(2) The starting and suspension dates for any reporting obligation under section 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) with respect to a takedown of any class of asset-backed securities are determined separately for each takedown of securities under the registration statement.
(b) The duty to file annual and other reports pursuant to section 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) regarding any class of asset-backed securities is suspended:
(1) As to any semi-annual fiscal period, if, at the beginning of the semi-annual fiscal period, other than a period in the fiscal year within which the registration statement became effective, or, for offerings conducted pursuant to § 230.415(a)(1)(vii) or § 230.415(a)(1)(xii), the takedown for the offering occurred, there are no asset-backed securities of such class that were sold in a registered transaction held by non-affiliates of the depositor and a certification on Form 15 (17 CFR 249.323) has been filed; or
(2) When there are no asset-backed securities of such class that were sold
in a registered transaction still outstanding, immediately upon filing with the Commission a certification on Form 15 (17 CFR 249.323) if the issuer of such class has filed all reports required by Section 13(a), without regard to Rule 12b-25 (17 CFR 249.322), for the shorter of its most recent three fiscal years and the portion of the current year preceding the date of filing Form 15, or the period since the issuer became subject to such reporting obligation. If the certification on Form 15 is subsequently withdrawn or denied, the issuer shall, within 60 days, file with the Commission all reports which would have been required if such certification had not been filed.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# ):
Securities held of record by a broker, dealer, bank or nominee for any of them for the accounts of customers shall be considered as held by the separate accounts for which the securities are held.

# Note 2 to paragraph (
b

# ):
An issuer may not suspend reporting if the issuer and its affiliates acquire and resell securities as part of a plan or scheme to evade the reporting obligations of Section 15(d).
(c) This section does not affect any other reporting obligation applicable with respect to any classes of securities from additional takedowns under the same or different registration statements or any reporting obligation that may be applicable pursuant to section 12 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
).
[76 FR 52555, Aug. 23, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 57344, Sept. 24, 2014]
§ 240.15d-23
Reporting regarding certain securities underlying asset-backed securities under section 15(d) of the Act.
(a) Regarding a class of asset-backed securities, if the asset pool for the asset-backed securities includes a pool asset representing an interest in or the right to the payments or cash flows of another asset pool, then no separate annual and other reports need be filed pursuant to section 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) because of the separate registration of the distribution of the pool asset under the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
), if the following conditions are met:
(1) Both the issuing entity for the asset-backed securities and the entity that issued the pool asset were established under the direction of the same sponsor and depositor;
(2) The pool asset was created solely to satisfy legal requirements or otherwise facilitate the structuring of the asset-backed securities transaction;
(3) The pool asset is not part of a scheme to avoid the registration or reporting requirements of the Act;
(4) The pool asset is held by the issuing entity and is a part of the asset pool for the asset-backed securities; and
(5) The offering of the asset-backed securities and the offering of the pool asset were both registered under the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
).
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not affect any reporting obligation applicable with respect to the asset-backed securities or any other reporting obligation that may be applicable with respect to the pool asset or any other securities by the issuer of that pool asset pursuant to section 12 or 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
or 78o(d)).
(c) This section does not affect any obligation to provide information regarding the pool asset or the asset pool underlying the pool asset in a filing with respect to the asset-backed securities. See Item 1100(d) of Regulation AB (§ 229.1100(d) of this chapter).
(d) Terms used in this section have the same meaning as in Item 1101 of Regulation AB (§ 229.1101 of this chapter).
[70 FR 1623, Jan. 7, 2005]
§ 240.15g-1
Exemptions for certain transactions.
The following transactions shall be exempt from 17 CFR 240.15g-2, 17 CFR 240.15g-3, 17 CFR 240.15g-4, 17 CFR 240.15g-5, and 17 CFR 240.15g-6:
(a) Transactions by a broker or dealer:
(1) Whose commissions, commission equivalents, mark-ups, and mark-downs from transactions in penny stocks during each of the immediately preceding three months and during eleven or more of the preceding twelve months, or during the immediately preceding six months, did not exceed five percent of its total commissions, commission equivalents, mark-ups, and
mark-downs from transactions in securities during those months; and
(2) Who has not been a market maker in the penny stock that is the subject of the transaction in the immediately preceding twelve months.

# Note:
Prior to April 28, 1993, commissions, commission equivalents, mark-ups, and mark-downs from transactions in designated securities, as defined in 17 CFR 240.15c2-6(d)(2) as of April 15, 1992, may be considered to be commissions, commission equivalents, mark-ups, and mark-downs from transactions in penny stocks for purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) Transactions in which the customer is an institutional accredited investor, as defined in 17 CFR 230.501(a)(1), (2), (3), (7), (8), (9), (12), or (13).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# ):
Though the definition of “family client” from rule 501(a)(13) includes both natural persons and institutions, only family clients that are institutions may be considered institutional accredited investors.
(c) Transactions that meet the requirements of Regulation D (17 CFR 230.500
et seq.
), or transactions with an issuer not involving any public offering pursuant to section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933.
(d) Transactions in which the customer is the issuer, or a director, officer, general partner, or direct or indirect beneficial owner of more than five percent of any class of equity security of the issuer, of the penny stock that is the subject of the transaction.
(e) Transactions that are not recommended by the broker or dealer.
(f) Any other transaction or class of transactions or persons or class of persons that, upon prior written request or upon its own motion, the Commission conditionally or unconditionally exempts by order as consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors.
[57 FR 18032, Apr. 28, 1992, as amended at 77 FR 18685, Mar. 28, 2012; 85 FR 64278, Oct. 9, 2020]
§ 240.15g-2
Penny stock disclosure document relating to the penny stock market.
(a) It shall be unlawful for a broker or dealer to effect a transaction in any penny stock for or with the account of a customer unless, prior to effecting such transaction, the broker or dealer has furnished to the customer a document containing the information set forth in Schedule 15G, § 240.15g-100, and has obtained from the customer a signed and dated acknowledgment of receipt of the document.
(b) Regardless of the form of acknowledgment used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, it shall be unlawful for a broker or dealer to effect a transaction in any penny stock for or with the account of a customer less than two business days after the broker or dealer sends such document.
(c) The broker or dealer shall preserve, as part of its records, a copy of the written acknowledgment required by paragraph (a) of this section for the period specified in 17 CFR 240.17a-4(b) of this chapter.
(d) Upon request of the customer, the broker or dealer shall furnish the customer with a copy of the information set forth on the Commission's Web site at
http://www.sec.gov/investor/pubs/microcapstock.htm.
[58 FR 37417, July 12, 1993, as amended at 70 FR 40632, July 13, 2005]
§ 240.15g-3
Broker or dealer disclosure of quotations and other information relating to the penny stock market.
(a)
Requirement.
It shall be unlawful for a broker or dealer to effect a transaction in any penny stock with or for the account of a customer unless such broker or dealer discloses to such customer, within the time periods and in the manner required by paragraph (b) of this section, the following information:
(1) The inside bid quotation and the inside offer quotation for the penny stock.
(2) If paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply because of the absence of an inside bid quotation and an inside offer quotation:
(i) With respect to a transaction effected with or for a customer on a principal basis (other than as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section):
(A) The dealer shall disclose its offer price for the security:
(
1
) If during the previous five days the dealer has effected no fewer than
three
bona fide
sales to other dealers consistently at its offer price for the security current at the time of those sales, and
(
2
) If the dealer reasonably believes in good faith at the time of the transaction with the customer that its offer price accurately reflects the price at which it is willing to sell one or more round lots to another dealer. For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, “consistently” shall constitute, at a minimum, seventy-five percent of the dealer's
bona fide
interdealer sales during the previous five-day period, and, if the dealer has effected only three
bona fide
inter-dealer sales during such period, all three of such sales.
(B) The dealer shall disclose its bid price for the security:
(
1
) If during the previous five days the dealer has effected no fewer than three
bona fide
purchases from other dealers consistently at its bid price for the security current at the time of those purchases, and
(
2
) If the dealer reasonably believes in good faith at the time of the transaction with the customer that its bid price accurately reflects the price at which it is willing to buy one or more round lots from another dealer. For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, “consistently” shall constitute, at a minimum, seventy-five percent of the dealer's
bona fide
interdealer purchases during the previous five-day period, and, if the dealer has effected only three
bona fide
inter-dealer purchases during such period, all three of such purchases.
(C) If the dealer's bid or offer prices to the customer do not satisfy the criteria of paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) or (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the dealer shall disclose to the customer:
(
1
) That it has not effected inter-dealer purchases or sales of the penny stock consistently at its bid or offer price, and
(
2
) The price at which it last purchased the penny stock from, or sold the penny stock to, respectively, another dealer in a
bona fide
transaction.
(ii) With respect to transactions effected by a broker or dealer with or for the account of the customer:
(A) On an agency basis or
(B) On a basis other than as a market maker in the security, where, after having received an order from the customer to purchase a penny stock, the dealer effects the purchase from another person to offset a contemporaneous sale of the penny stock to such customer, or, after having received an order from the customer to sell the penny stock, the dealer effects the sale to another person to offset a contemporaneous purchase from such customer, the broker or dealer shall disclose the best independent interdealer bid and offer prices for the penny stock that the broker or dealer obtains through reasonable diligence. A broker-dealer shall be deemed to have exercised reasonable diligence if it obtains quotations from three market makers in the security (or all known market makers if there are fewer than three).
(3) With respect to bid or offer prices and transaction prices disclosed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the broker or dealer shall disclose the number of shares to which the bid and offer prices apply.
(b)
Timing.
(1) The information described in paragraph (a) of this section:
(i) Shall be provided to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting any transaction with or for the customer for the purchase or sale of such penny stock; and
(ii) Shall be given or sent to the customer in writing, at or prior to the time that any written confirmation of the transaction is given or sent to the customer pursuant to 17 CFR 240.10b-10 of this chapter.
(2) A broker or dealer, at the time of making the disclosure pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, shall make and preserve as part of its records, a record of such disclosure for the period specified in 17 CFR 240.17a-4(b).
(c)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) The term
bid price
shall mean the price most recently communicated by the dealer to another broker or dealer at which the dealer is willing to purchase one or more round lots of the penny stock, and shall not include indications of interest.
(2) The term
offer price
shall mean the price most recently communicated by the dealer to another broker or dealer at which the dealer is willing to sell one or more round lots of the penny stock, and shall not include indications of interest.
(3) The term
inside bid quotation
for a security shall mean the highest bid quotation for the security displayed by a market maker in the security on a Qualifying Electronic Quotation System, at any time in which at least two market makers are contemporaneously displaying on such system bid and offer quotations for the security at specified prices.
(4) The term
inside offer quotation
for a security shall mean the lowest offer quotation for the security displayed by a market maker in the security on a Qualifying Electronic Quotation System, at any time in which at least two market makers are contemporaneously displaying on such system bid and offer quotations for the security at specified prices.
(5) The term
Qualifying Electronic Quotation System
shall mean an automated interdealer quotation system that has the characteristics set forth in section 17B(b)(2) of the Act, or such other automated interdealer quotation system designated by the Commission for purposes of this section.
[57 FR 18033, Apr. 28, 1992]
§ 240.15g-4
Disclosure of compensation to brokers or dealers.

# Preliminary Note:
Brokers and dealers may wish to refer to Securities Exchange Act Release No. 30608 (April 20, 1992) for a discussion of the procedures for computing compensation in active and competitive markets, inactive and competitive markets, and dominated and controlled markets.
(a)
Disclosure requirement.
It shall be unlawful for any broker or dealer to effect a transaction in any penny stock for or with the account of a customer unless such broker or dealer discloses to such customer, within the time periods and in the manner required by paragraph (b) of this section, the aggregate amount of any compensation received by such broker or dealer in connection with such transaction.
(b)
Timing.
(1) The information described in paragraph (a) of this section:
(i) Shall be provided to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting any transaction with or for the customer for the purchase or sale of such penny stock; and
(ii) Shall be given or sent to the customer in writing, at or prior to the time that any written confirmation of the transaction is given or sent to the customer pursuant to 17 CFR 240.10b-10.
(2) A broker or dealer, at the time of making the disclosure pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, shall make and preserve as part of its records, a record of such disclosure for the period specified in 17 CFR 240.17a-4(b).
(c)
Definition of compensation.
For purposes of this section,
compensation
means, with respect to a transaction in a penny stock:
(1) If a broker is acting as agent for a customer, the amount of any remuneration received or to be received by it from such customer in connection with such transaction;
(2) If, after having received a buy order from a customer, a dealer other than a market maker purchased the penny stock as principal from another person to offset a contemporaneous sale to such customer or, after having received a sell order from a customer, sold the penny stock as principal to another person to offset a contemporaneous purchase from such customer, the difference between the price to the customer and such contemporaneous purchase or sale price; or
(3) If the dealer otherwise is acting as principal for its own account, the difference between the price to the customer and the prevailing market price.
(d)
Active and competitive
market. For purposes of this section only, a market may be deemed to be “active and competitive” in determining the prevailing market price with respect to a transaction by a market maker in a penny stock if the aggregate number of transactions effected by such market maker in the penny stock in the five business days preceding such transaction is less than twenty percent of the aggregate number of all transactions in the penny stock reported on a Qualifying Electronic Quotation System (as defined in 17 CFR 240.15g-3(c)(5)) during
such five-day period. No presumption shall arise that a market is not “active and competitive” solely by reason of a market maker not meeting the conditions specified in this paragraph.
[57 FR 18034, Apr. 28, 1992]
§ 240.15g-5
Disclosure of compensation of associated persons in connection with penny stock transactions.
(a)
General.
It shall be unlawful for a broker or dealer to effect a transaction in any penny stock for or with the account of a customer unless the broker or dealer discloses to such customer, within the time periods and in the manner required by paragraph (b) of this section, the aggregate amount of cash compensation that any associated person of the broker or dealer who is a natural person and has communicated with the customer concerning the transaction at or prior to receipt of the customer's transaction order, other than any person whose function is solely clerical or ministerial, has received or will receive from any source in connection with the transaction and that is determined at or prior to the time of the transaction, including separate disclosure, if applicable, of the source and amount of such compensation that is not paid by the broker or dealer.
(b)
Timing.
(1) The information described in paragraph (a) of this section:
(i) Shall be provided to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting any transaction with or for the customer for the purchase or sale of such penny stock; and
(ii) Shall be given or sent to the customer in writing, at or prior to the time that any written confirmation of the transaction is given or sent to the customer pursuant to 17 CFR 240.10b-10.
(2) A broker or dealer, at the time of making the disclosure pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, shall make and preserve as part of its records, a record of such disclosure for the period specified in 17 CFR 240.17a-4(b).
(c)
Contingent compensation arrangements.
Where a portion or all of the cash or other compensation that the associated person may receive in connection with the transaction may be determined and paid following the transaction based on aggregate sales volume levels or other contingencies, the written disclosure required by paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section shall state that fact and describe the basis upon which such compensation is determined.
[57 FR 18034, Apr. 28, 1992]
§ 240.15g-6
Account statements for penny stock customers.
(a)
Requirement.
It shall be unlawful for any broker or dealer that has effected the sale to any customer, other than in a transaction that is exempt pursuant to 17 CFR 240.15g-1, of any security that is a penny stock on the last trading day of any calendar month, or any successor of such broker or dealer, to fail to give or send to such customer a written statement containing the information described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section with respect to each such month in which such security is held for the customer's account with the broker or dealer, within ten days following the end of such month.
(b)
Exemptions.
A broker or dealer shall be exempted from the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section under either of the following circumstances:
(1) If the broker or dealer does not effect any transactions in penny stocks for or with the account of the customer during a period of six consecutive calendar months, then the broker or dealer shall not be required to provide monthly statements for each quarterly period that is immediately subsequent to such six-month period and in which the broker or dealer does not effect any transaction in penny stocks for or with the account of the customer,
provided
that the broker or dealer gives or sends to the customer written statements containing the information described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section on a quarterly basis, within ten days following the end of each such quarterly period.
(2) If, on all but five or fewer trading days of any quarterly period, a security has a price of five dollars or more, the broker or dealer shall not be required to provide a monthly statement covering the security for subsequent quarterly periods, until the end of any such subsequent quarterly period on the last
trading day of which the price of the security is less than five dollars.
(c)
Price determinations.
For purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the price of a security on any trading day shall be determined at the close of business in accordance with the provisions of 17 CFR 240.3a51-1(d)(1).
(d)
Market and price information.
The statement required by paragraph (a) of this section shall contain at least the following information with respect to each penny stock covered by paragraph (a) of this section, as of the last trading day of the period to which the statement relates:
(1) The identity and number of shares or units of each such security held for the customer's account; and
(2) The estimated market value of the security, to the extent that such estimated market value can be determined in accordance with the following provisions:
(i) The highest inside bid quotation for the security on the last trading day of the period to which the statement relates, multiplied by the number of shares or units of the security held for the customer's account; or
(ii) If paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section is not applicable because of the absence of an inside bid quotation, and if the broker or dealer furnishing the statement has effected at least ten separate Qualifying Purchases in the security during the last five trading days of the period to which the statement relates, the weighted average price per share paid by the broker or dealer in all Qualifying Purchases effected during such five-day period, multiplied by the number of shares or units of the security held for the customer's account; or
(iii) If neither of paragraphs (d)(2)(i) nor (d)(2)(ii) of this section is applicable, a statement that there is “no estimated market value” with respect to the security.
(e)
Legend.
In addition to the information required by paragraph (d) of this section, the written statement required by paragraph (a) of this section shall include a conspicuous legend that is identified with the penny stocks described in the statement and that contains the following language:
If this statement contains an estimated value, you should be aware that this value may be based on a limited number of trades or quotes. Therefore, you may not be able to sell these securities at a price equal or near to the value shown. However, the broker-dealer furnishing this statement may not refuse to accept your order to sell these securities. Also, the amount you receive from a sale generally will be reduced by the amount of any commissions or similar charges. If an estimated value is not shown for a security, a value could not be determined because of a lack of information.
(f)
Preservation of records.
Any broker or dealer subject to this section shall preserve, as part of its records, copies of the written statements required by paragraph (a) of this section and keep such records for the periods specified in 17 CFR 240.17a-4(b).
(g)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) The term
Quarterly period
shall mean any period of three consecutive full calendar months.
(2) The
inside bid quotation
for a security shall mean the highest bid quotation for the security displayed by a market maker in the security on a Qualifying Electronic Quotation System, at any time in which at least two market makers are contemporaneously displaying on such system bid and offer quotations for the security at specified prices.
(3) The term
Qualifying Electronic Quotation System
shall mean an automated interdealer quotation system that has the characteristics set forth in section 17B(b)(2) of the Act, or such other automated interdealer quotation system designated by the Commission for purposes of this section.
(4) The term
Qualifying Purchases
shall mean
bona fide
purchases by a broker or dealer of a penny stock for its own account, each of which involves at least 100 shares, but excluding any block purchase involving more than one percent of the outstanding shares or units of the security.
[57 FR 18034, Apr. 28, 1992]
§ 240.15g-8
Sales of escrowed securities of blank check companies.
As a means reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative acts or practices, it shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer
to sell any security that is deposited and held in an escrow or trust account pursuant to Rule 419 under the Securities Act of 1933 (17 CFR 230.419), or any interest in or related to such security, other than pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
), or the rules thereunder.
[57 FR 18045, Apr. 28, 1992]
§ 240.15g-9
Sales practice requirements for certain low-priced securities.
(a) As a means reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative acts or practices, it shall be unlawful for a broker or dealer to sell a penny stock to, or to effect the purchase of a penny stock by, any person unless:
(1) The transaction is exempt under paragraph (c) of this section; or
(2) Prior to the transaction:
(i) The broker or dealer has approved the person's account for transactions in penny stocks in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(ii)(A) The broker or dealer has received from the person an agreement to the transaction setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased; and
(B) Regardless of the form of agreement used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, it shall be unlawful for such broker or dealer to sell a penny stock to, or to effect the purchase of a penny stock by, for or with the account of a customer less than two business days after the broker or dealer sends such agreement.
(b) In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must:
(1) Obtain from the person information concerning the person's financial situation, investment experience, and investment objectives;
(2) Reasonably determine, based on the information required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section and any other information known by the broker-dealer, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the person, and that the person (or the person's independent adviser in these transactions) has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters that the person (or the person's independent adviser in these transactions) reasonably may be expected to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks;
(3) Deliver to the person a written statement:
(i) Setting forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the determination required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(ii) Stating in a highlighted format that it is unlawful for the broker or dealer to effect a transaction in a penny stock subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section unless the broker or dealer has received, prior to the transaction, a written agreement to the transaction from the person; and
(iii) Stating in a highlighted format immediately preceding the customer signature line that:
(A) The broker or dealer is required by this section to provide the person with the written statement; and
(B) The person should not sign and return the written statement to the broker or dealer if it does not accurately reflect the person's financial situation, investment experience, and investment objectives; and
(4)(i) Obtain from the person a signed and dated copy of the statement required by paragraph (b)(3) of this section; and
(ii) Regardless of the form of statement used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, it shall be unlawful for such broker or dealer to sell a penny stock to, or to effect the purchase of a penny stock by, for or with the account of a customer less than two business days after the broker or dealer sends such statement.
(c) For purposes of this section, the following transactions shall be exempt:
(1) Transactions that are exempt under 17 CFR 240.15g-1 (a), (b), (d), (e), and (f).
(2) Transactions that meet the requirements of 17 CFR 230.506 (including, where applicable, the requirements of 17 CFR 230.501 through 230.503, and 17
CFR 230.507 through 230.508), or transactions with an issuer not involving any public offering pursuant to section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933.
(3) Transactions in which the purchaser is an established customer of the broker or dealer.
(d) For purposes of this section:
(1) The term
penny stock
shall have the same meaning as in 17 CFR 240.3a51-1.
(2) The term
established customer
shall mean any person for whom the broker or dealer, or a clearing broker on behalf of such broker or dealer, carries an account, and who in such account:
(i) Has effected a securities transaction, or made a deposit of funds or securities, more than one year previously; or
(ii) Has made three purchases of penny stocks that occurred on separate days and involved different issuers.
[54 FR 35481, Aug. 28, 1989. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 37417, July 12, 1993; 70 FR 40632, July 13, 2005; 81 FR 83553, Nov. 21, 2016]
§ 240.15g-100
Schedule 15G—Information to be included in the document distributed pursuant to 17 CFR 240.15g-2.

# SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

# Washington, DC 20549

# SCHEDULE 15G

# Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

# Instructions to Schedule 15G
A. Schedule 15G (Schedule) may be provided to customers in its entirety either on paper or electronically. It may also be provided to customers electronically through a link to the SEC's Web site.
1.
If the Schedule is sent in paper form
, the format and typeface of the Schedule must be reproduced exactly as presented. For example, words that are capitalized must remain capitalized, and words that are underlined or bold must remain underlined or bold. The typeface must be clear and easy to read. The Schedule may be reproduced either by photocopy or by printing.
2.
If the Schedule is sent electronically
, the e-mail containing the Schedule must have as a subject line “Important Information on Penny Stocks.” The Schedule reproduced in the text of the e-mail must be clear, easy-to-read type presented in a manner reasonably calculated to draw the customer's attention to the language in the document, especially words that are capitalized, underlined or in bold.
3.
If the Schedule is sent electronically using a hyperlink to the SEC Web site
, the e-mail containing the hyperlink must have as a subject line: “Important Information on Penny Stocks.” Immediately before the hyperlink, the text of the e-mail must reproduce the following statement in clear, easy-to-read type presented in a manner reasonably calculated to draw the customer's attention to the words: “We are required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to give you the following disclosure statement:
http://www.sec.gov/investor/schedule15g.htm.
It explains some of the risks of investing in penny stocks. Please read it carefully before you agree to purchase or sell a penny stock.”
B. Regardless of how the Schedule is provided to the customer, the communication must also provide the name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of the broker. E-mail messages may also include any privacy or confidentiality information that the broker routinely includes in e-mail messages sent to customers. No other information may be included in these communications, other than instructions on how to provide a signed and dated acknowledgement of receipt of the Schedule.
C. The document entitled “Important Information on Penny Stocks” must be distributed as Schedule 15G and must be no more than two pages in length if provided in paper form.
D. The disclosures made through the Schedule are in addition to any other disclosures that are required under the Federal securities laws.
E. Recipients of the document must not be charged any fee for the document.
F. The content of the Schedule is as follows:
[next page]

# Important Information on Penny Stocks
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires your broker to give this statement to you, and to obtain your signature to show that you have received it, before your first trade in a penny stock. This statement contains important information—and you should read it carefully before you sign it, and before you decide to purchase or sell a penny stock.
In addition to obtaining your signature, the SEC requires your broker to wait at least two business days after sending you this statement before executing your first trade to give you time to carefully consider your trade.

# Penny Stocks Can Be Very Risky
Penny stocks are low-priced shares of small companies. Penny stocks may trade infrequently—which means that it may be difficult to sell penny stock shares once you have them. Because it may also be difficult to find quotations for penny stocks, they may be impossible to accurately price. Investors in penny stock should be prepared for the possibility that they may lose their whole investment.
While penny stocks generally trade over-the-counter, they may also trade on U.S. securities exchanges, facilities of U.S. exchanges, or foreign exchanges. You should learn about the market in which the penny stock trades to determine how much demand there is for this stock and how difficult it will be to sell. Be especially careful if your broker is offering to sell you newly issued penny stock that has no established trading market.
The securities you are considering have not been approved or disapproved by the SEC. Moreover, the SEC has not passed upon the fairness or the merits of this transaction nor upon the accuracy or adequacy of the information contained in any prospectus or any other information provided by an issuer or a broker or dealer.

# Information You Should Get
In addition to this statement, your broker is required to give you a statement of your financial situation and investment goals explaining why his or her firm has determined that penny stocks are a suitable investment for you. In addition, your broker is required to obtain your agreement to the proposed penny stock transaction.
Before you buy penny stock,
Federal law requires your salesperson to tell you the “
offer
” and the “
bid
” on the stock, and the “
compensation
” the salesperson and the firm receive for the trade. The firm also must send a confirmation of these prices to you after the trade. You will need this price information to determine what profit or loss, if any, you will have when you sell your stock.
The offer price is the wholesale price at which the dealer is willing to sell stock to other dealers. The bid price is the wholesale price at which the dealer is willing to buy the stock from other dealers. In its trade with you, the dealer may add a retail charge to these wholesale prices as compensation (called a “markup” or “markdown”).
The difference between the bid and the offer price is the dealer's “
spread.
” A spread that is large compared with the purchase price can make a resale of a stock very costly. To be profitable when you sell, the bid price of your stock must rise above the amount of this spread and the compensation charged by both your selling and purchasing dealers.
Remember that if the dealer has no bid price, you may not be able to sell the stock after you buy it, and may lose your whole investment.
After you buy penny stock
, your brokerage firm must send you a monthly account statement that gives an estimate of the value of each penny stock in your account, if there is enough information to make an estimate. If the firm has not bought or sold any penny stocks for your account for six months, it can provide these statements every three months.
Additional information about low-priced securities—including penny stocks—is available on the SEC's Web site at
http://www.sec.gov/investor/pubs/microcapstock.htm.
In addition, your broker will send you a copy of this information upon request. The SEC encourages you to learn all you can before making this investment.

# Brokers' Duties and Customers' Rights and Remedies
Remember that your salesperson is not an impartial advisor—he or she is being paid to sell you stock. Do not rely only on the salesperson, but seek outside advice before you buy any stock. You can get the disciplinary history of a salesperson or firm from NASD at 1-800-289-9999 or contact NASD via the Internet at
http://www.nasd.com.
You can also get additional information from your state securities official. The North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc. can give you contact information for your state. You can reach NASAA at (202) 737-0900 or via the Internet at
http://www.nasaa.org.
If you have problems with a salesperson, contact the firm's compliance officer. You can also contact the securities regulators listed above. Finally, if you are a victim of fraud, you may have rights and remedies under state and Federal law. In addition to the regulators listed above, you also may contact the SEC with complaints at (800) SEC-0330 or via the Internet at
help@sec.gov.
[70 FR 40632, July 13, 2005]
§ 240.15l-1
Regulation best interest.
(a)
Best interest obligation.
(1) A broker, dealer, or a natural person who is an associated person of a broker or dealer, when making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities (including account recommendations) to a retail customer, shall act in the best interest of the retail customer at the time the recommendation is made, without placing the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or natural person who is an associated person of a broker or dealer making the recommendation ahead of the interest of the retail customer.
(2) The best interest obligation in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be satisfied if:
(i)
Disclosure obligation.
The broker, dealer, or natural person who is an associated person of a broker or dealer, prior to or at the time of the recommendation, provides the retail customer, in writing, full and fair disclosure of:
(A) All material facts relating to the scope and terms of the relationship with the retail customer, including:
(
1
) That the broker, dealer, or such natural person is acting as a broker, dealer, or an associated person of a broker or dealer with respect to the recommendation;
(
2
) The material fees and costs that apply to the retail customer's transactions, holdings, and accounts; and
(
3
) The type and scope of services provided to the retail customer, including any material limitations on the securities or investment strategies involving securities that may be recommended to the retail customer; and
(B) All material facts relating to conflicts of interest that are associated with the recommendation.
(ii)
Care obligation.
The broker, dealer, or natural person who is an associated person of a broker or dealer, in making the recommendation, exercises reasonable diligence, care, and skill to:
(A) Understand the potential risks, rewards, and costs associated with the recommendation, and have a reasonable basis to believe that the recommendation could be in the best interest of at least some retail customers;
(B) Have a reasonable basis to believe that the recommendation is in the best interest of a particular retail customer based on that retail customer's investment profile and the potential risks, rewards, and costs associated with the recommendation and does not place the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or such natural person ahead of the interest of the retail customer;
(C) Have a reasonable basis to believe that a series of recommended transactions, even if in the retail customer's best interest when viewed in isolation, is not excessive and is in the retail customer's best interest when taken together in light of the retail customer's investment profile and does not place the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer, or such natural person making the series of recommendations ahead of the interest of the retail customer.
(iii)
Conflict of interest obligation.
The broker or dealer establishes, maintains, and enforces written policies and procedures reasonably designed to:
(A) Identify and at a minimum disclose, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, or eliminate, all conflicts of interest associated with such recommendations;
(B) Identify and mitigate any conflicts of interest associated with such recommendations that create an incentive for a natural person who is an associated person of a broker or dealer to place the interest of the broker, dealer, or such natural person ahead of the interest of the retail customer;
(C)(
1
) Identify and disclose any material limitations placed on the securities or investment strategies involving securities that may be recommended to a retail customer and any conflicts of interest associated with such limitations, in accordance with subparagraph (a)(2)(i), and
(
2
) Prevent such limitations and associated conflicts of interest from causing the broker, dealer, or a natural person who is an associated person of the broker or dealer to make recommendations that place the interest of the broker, dealer, or such natural person ahead of the interest of the retail customer; and
(D) Identify and eliminate any sales contests, sales quotas, bonuses, and non-cash compensation that are based on the sales of specific securities or specific types of securities within a limited period of time.
(iv)
Compliance obligation.
In addition to the policies and procedures required by paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the broker or dealer establishes, maintains, and enforces written policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with Regulation Best Interest.
(b)
Definitions.
Unless otherwise provided, all terms used in this rule shall have the same meaning as in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In addition, the following definitions shall apply for purposes of this section:
(1)
Retail customer
means a natural person, or the legal representative of such natural person, who:
(i) Receives a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities from a broker, dealer, or a natural person who is an associated person of a broker or dealer; and
(ii) Uses the recommendation primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.
(2)
Retail customer investment profile
includes, but is not limited to, the retail customer's age, other investments, financial situation and needs, tax status, investment objectives, investment experience, investment time horizon, liquidity needs, risk tolerance, and any other information the retail customer may disclose to the broker, dealer, or a natural person who is an associated person of a broker or dealer in connection with a recommendation.
(3)
Conflict of interest
means an interest that might incline a broker, dealer, or a natural person who is an associated person of a broker or dealer —consciously or unconsciously—to make a recommendation that is not disinterested.
[84 FR 33491, July 12, 2019]

# National and Affiliated Securities Associations
§ 240.15aa-1
Registration of a national or an affiliated securities association.
Any application for registration of an association as a national, or as an affiliated, securities association shall be submitted on Form 15A. Filings on Form 15A (§ 249.801 of this chapter) submitted pursuant to this section shall be filed electronically on EDGAR in accordance with the requirements of 17 CFR part 232 (Regulation S-T).
[90 FR 7365, Jan. 21, 2025]
§ 240.15aa-2
Amendments and supplements to registration statements of securities associations.
Every association applying for registration or registered as a national securities association or as an affiliated securities association shall keep its registration statement up-to-date in the manner prescribed below:
(a)
Amendments.
Promptly after the discovery of any inaccuracy in the registration statement or in any amendment or supplement thereto the association shall file with the Commission
an amendment correcting such inaccuracy.
(b)
Current supplements.
Promptly after any change which renders no longer accurate any information contained or incorporated in the registration statement or in any amendment or supplement thereto the association shall file with the Commission a current supplement setting forth such change, except that:
(1) No current supplements need be filed with respect to changes in the information called for in Exhibit B.
(2) Supplements setting forth changes in the information called for in Exhibit C need not be filed until 10 days after the calendar month in which the changes occur.
(3) If changes in the information called for in Items (1) and (2) of Exhibit C are reported in any record which is published at least once a month by the association and promptly filed with the Commission, no current supplement need be filed with respect thereto.
(c)
Annual supplements.
(1) Promptly after March 1 of each year, the association shall file with the Commission an annual consolidated supplement as of such date on Form 15A (§ 249.801 of this chapter) except that:
(i) If the securities association publishes or cooperates in the publication of the information required in Items 6(a) and 6(b) of Form 15A on an annual or more frequent basis, in lieu of filing such an item the securities association may:
(A) Identify on Form 15A the publication in which such information is available, the name, address, and telephone number of the person from whom such publication may be obtained, and the price thereof; and
(B) Certify on Form 15A to the accuracy of such information as of its date.
(ii) Promptly after March 1, 2025, and every three years thereafter each association shall file complete Exhibit A to Form 15A. The information contained in this exhibit shall be up-to-date as of the latest practicable date within 3 months of the date on which these exhibits are filed. If the association publishes or cooperates in the publication of the information required in this exhibit on an annual or more frequent basis, in lieu of filing such exhibit the association may:
(A) Identify on Form 15A the publication in which such information is available, the name, address, and telephone number of the person from whom such publication may be obtained, and the price thereof; and
(B) Certify on Form 15A to the accuracy of such information as of its date. If a securities association keeps the information required in the exhibit up-to-date and makes it available to the Commission and the public upon request, in lieu of filing such an exhibit a securities association may certify on Form 15A that the information is kept up-to-date and is available to the Commission and the public upon request.
(2) Promptly after the close of each fiscal year of the association, it shall file with the Commission a supplement setting forth its balance sheet as of the close of such year and its income and expense statement for such year.
(d)
Filing, dating, etc.
(1) Each amendment or supplement, including the annual consolidated supplement, shall be submitted electronically on Form 15A in a manner prescribed in § 240.15aa-1 (Rule 15aa-1).
(2) One amendment or supplement may include any number of changes. In addition to the formal filing of amendments and supplements above described, each association shall electronically file with the Commission copies of any notices, reports, circulars, loose-leaf insertions, riders, new additions, lists or other records of changes covered by amendments or supplements when, as and if such records are made available to members of the association.
[13 FR 8209, Dec. 22, 1948, as amended at 18 FR 6259, Oct. 1, 1953. Redesignated at 30 FR 11851, Sept. 16, 1965; 59 FR 66700, Dec. 28, 1994; 90 FR 7365, Jan. 21, 2025]
§ 240.15Al2-1
[Reserved]
§ 240.15Ba1-1
Definitions.
As used in the rules and regulations prescribed by the Commission pursuant to section 15B of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4) in §§ 240.15Ba1-1 through 240.15Ba1-8 and 240.15Bc4-1:
(a)
Guaranteed investment contract
has the same meaning as in section
15B(e)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(2));
provided, however,
that the contract relates to investments of proceeds of municipal securities or municipal escrow investments.
(b)
Investment strategies
has the same meaning as in section 15B(e)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(3)), and includes plans or programs for the investment of proceeds of municipal securities that are not municipal derivatives or guaranteed investment contracts, and the recommendation of and brokerage of municipal escrow investments.
(c)
Managing agent
means any person, including a trustee, who directs or manages, or who participates in directing or managing, the affairs of any unincorporated organization or association other than a partnership.
(d)(1)
Municipal advisor.
(i)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section, the term
municipal advisor
has the same meaning as in section 15B(e)(4) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(4)). Under section 15B(e)(4)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(4)(A)), the term
municipal advisor
means a person (who is not a municipal entity or an employee of a municipal entity) that provides advice to or on behalf of a municipal entity or obligated person with respect to municipal financial products or the issuance of municipal securities, including advice with respect to the structure, timing, terms, and other similar matters concerning such financial products or issues; or undertakes a solicitation of a municipal entity or an obligated person. Under section 15B(e)(4)(C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(4)(C)) and paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a
municipal advisor
does not include a person that engages in specified excluded activities.
(ii)
Advice standard.
For purposes of the municipal advisor definition under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, advice excludes, among other things, the provision of general information that does not involve a recommendation regarding municipal financial products or the issuance of municipal securities (including with respect to the structure, timing, terms and other similar matters concerning such financial products or issues).
(iii)
Certain types of municipal advisors.
Under section 15B(e)(4)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(4)(B)),
municipal advisors
include, without limitation, financial advisors, guaranteed investment contract brokers, third-party marketers, placement agents, solicitors, finders, and swap advisors, to the extent that such persons otherwise meet the requirements of the municipal advisor definition in this paragraph (d)(1).
(2)
Exclusions from municipal advisor definition.
Pursuant to section 15B(e)(4)(C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(4)(C)), the term
municipal advisor
excludes the following persons with respect to the specified excluded activities:
(i)
Serving as an underwriter.
A broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer serving as an underwriter of a particular issuance of municipal securities to the extent that the broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer engages in activities that are within the scope of an underwriting of such issuance of municipal securities.
(ii)
Registered investment advisers—In general.
Any investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.
) or any person associated with such registered investment adviser to the extent that such registered investment adviser or such person is providing investment advice in such capacity. Solely for purposes of this paragraph (d)(2)(ii), investment advice does not include advice concerning whether and how to issue municipal securities, advice concerning the structure, timing, and terms of an issuance of municipal securities and other similar matters, advice concerning municipal derivatives, or a solicitation of a municipal entity or obligated person.
(iii)
Registered commodity trading advisors.
Any commodity trading advisor registered under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), or person associated with a registered commodity trading advisor, to the extent that such registered commodity trading advisor or such person is providing advice that is related to swaps (as defined in Section 1a(47) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)) and section 3(a)(69) of the Act (15
U.S.C. 78c(a)(69)), and any rules and regulations thereunder).
(iv)
Attorneys.
Any attorney to the extent that the attorney is offering legal advice or providing services that are of a traditional legal nature with respect to the issuance of municipal securities or municipal financial products to a client of such attorney that is a municipal entity, obligated person, or other participant in the transaction. To the extent an attorney represents himself or herself as a financial advisor or financial expert regarding the issuance of municipal securities or municipal financial products, however, the attorney is not excluded with respect to such financial activities under this paragraph (d)(2)(iv).
(v)
Engineers.
Any engineer to the extent that the engineer is providing engineering advice.
(3)
Exemptions from municipal advisor definition.
The Commission exempts the following persons from the definition of municipal advisor to the extent they are engaging in the specified activities:
(i)
Accountants.
Any accountant to the extent that the accountant is providing audit or other attest services, preparing financial statements, or issuing letters for underwriters for, or on behalf of, a municipal entity or obligated person.
(ii)
Public officials and employees.
(A) Any person serving as a member of a governing body, an advisory board, or a committee of, or acting in a similar official capacity with respect to, or as an official of, a municipal entity or obligated person to the extent that such person is acting within the scope of such person's official capacity.
(B) Any employee of a municipal entity or obligated person to the extent that such person is acting within the scope of such person's employment.
(iii)
Banks.
Any bank, as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(6)), to the extent the bank provides advice with respect to the following:
(A) Any investments that are held in a deposit account, savings account, certificate of deposit, or other deposit instrument issued by a bank;
(B) Any extension of credit by a bank to a municipal entity or obligated person, including the issuance of a letter of credit, the making of a direct loan, or the purchase of a municipal security by the bank for its own account;
(C) Any funds held in a sweep account that meets the requirements of section 3(a)(4)(B)(v) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)(B)(v)); or
(D) Any investment made by a bank acting in the capacity of an indenture trustee or similar capacity.
(iv)
Responses to requests for proposals or qualifications.
Any person providing a response in writing or orally to a request for proposals or qualifications from a municipal entity or obligated person for services in connection with a municipal financial product or the issuance of municipal securities;
provided, however,
that such person does not receive separate direct or indirect compensation for advice provided as part of such response.
(v)
Swap dealers.
(A) A swap dealer (as defined in Section 1a(49) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(49)) and the rules and regulations thereunder) registered under the Commodity Exchange Act or associated person of the swap dealer recommending a municipal derivative or a trading strategy that involves a municipal derivative, so long as the registered swap dealer or associated person is not
acting as an advisor
to the municipal entity or obligated person with respect to the municipal derivative or trading strategy pursuant to Section 4s(h)(4) of the Commodity Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.
(B) For purposes of determining whether a swap dealer is
acting as an advisor
in this paragraph (d)(3)(v), the municipal entity or obligated person involved in the transaction will be treated as a
special entity
under Section 4s(h)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder (even if such municipal entity or obligated person does not satisfy the definition of
special entity
under those provisions).
(vi)
Participation by an independent registered municipal advisor.
Any person engaging in municipal advisory activities in a circumstance in which a municipal entity or obligated person is otherwise represented by an independent registered municipal advisor with respect to the same aspects of a
municipal financial product or an issuance of municipal securities, provided that the following requirements are met:
(A)
Independent registered municipal advisor.
An independent registered municipal advisor is providing advice with respect to the same aspects of the municipal financial product or issuance of municipal securities. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(3)(vi), the term
independent registered municipal advisor
means a municipal advisor registered pursuant to section 15B of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4) and the rules and regulations thereunder and that is not, and within at least the past two years was not, associated (as defined in section 15B(e)(7) (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(7)) of the Act) with the person seeking to rely on this paragraph (d)(3)(vi).
(B)
Required representation.
A person seeking to rely on this paragraph (d)(3)(vi) receives from the municipal entity or obligated person a representation in writing that it is represented by, and will rely on the advice of, an independent registered municipal advisor, provided that the person receiving such representation has a reasonable basis for relying on the representation.
(C)
Required disclosures.
(
1
) With respect to a municipal entity, such person discloses in writing to the municipal entity that, by obtaining such representation from the municipal entity, such person is not a municipal advisor and is not subject to the fiduciary duty set forth in section 15B(c)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(c)(1)) with respect to the municipal financial product or issuance of municipal securities, and provides a copy of such disclosure to the independent registered municipal advisor.
(
2
) With respect to an obligated person, such person discloses in writing to the obligated person that, by obtaining such representation from the obligated person, such person is not a municipal advisor with respect to the municipal financial product or issuance of municipal securities, and provides a copy of such disclosure to the independent registered municipal advisor.
(
3
) Each such disclosure must be made at a time and in a manner reasonably designed to allow the municipal entity or obligated person to assess the material incentives and conflicts of interest that such person may have in connection with the municipal advisory activities.
(vii)
Persons that provide advice on certain investment strategies.
A person that provides advice with respect to investment strategies that are not plans or programs for the investment of the proceeds of municipal securities or the recommendation of and brokerage of municipal escrow investments.
(viii)
Certain solicitations.
A person that undertakes a solicitation of a municipal entity or obligated person for the purpose of obtaining or retaining an engagement by a municipal entity or by an obligated person of a broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, or municipal advisor for or in connection with municipal financial products that are investment strategies to the extent that those investment strategies are not plans or programs for the investment of the proceeds of municipal securities or the recommendation of and brokerage of municipal escrow investments.
(4)
Special rule for separately identifiable departments or divisions of banks for municipal advisory purposes.
If a bank engages in municipal advisory activities through a separately identifiable department or division that meets the requirements of this paragraph (d)(4), the determination of whether those municipal advisory activities cause any person to be a municipal advisor may be made separately for such department or division. In such event, that department or division, rather than the bank itself, shall be deemed to be the municipal advisor.
(i)
Separately identifiable department or division.
For purposes of this paragraph (d)(4), a
separately identifiable department or division
of a bank is that unit of the bank which conducts all of the municipal advisory activities of the bank, provided that the following requirements are met:
(A)
Supervision.
Such unit is under the direct supervision of an officer or officers designated by the board of directors of the bank as responsible for the day-to-day conduct of the bank's
municipal advisory activities, including the supervision of all bank employees engaged in the performance of such activities.
(B)
Separate records.
All of the records relating to the bank's municipal advisory activities are separately maintained in, or extractable from, such unit's own facilities or the facilities of the bank, and such records are so maintained or otherwise accessible as to permit independent examination thereof and enforcement of applicable provisions of the Act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board relating to municipal advisors.
(ii) [Reserved]
(e)
Municipal advisory activities
means the following activities specified in section 15B(e)(4)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(4)(A)) and paragraph (d)(1) of this section that, absent the availability of an exclusion under paragraph (d)(2) of this section or an exemption under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, would cause a person to be a municipal advisor:
(1) Providing advice to or on behalf of a municipal entity or obligated person with respect to municipal financial products or the issuance of municipal securities, including advice with respect to the structure, timing, terms, and other similar matters concerning such financial products or issues; or
(2) Solicitation of a municipal entity or an obligated person.
(f)
Municipal derivatives
means any swap (as defined in Section 1a(47) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)) and section 3(a)(69) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(69)), including any rules and regulations thereunder) or security-based swap (as defined in section 3(a)(68) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68)), including any rules and regulations thereunder) to which:
(1) A municipal entity is a counterparty; or
(2) An obligated person, acting in such capacity, is a counterparty.
(g)
Municipal entity
means any State, political subdivision of a State, or municipal corporate instrumentality of a State or of a political subdivision of a State, including:
(1) Any agency, authority, or instrumentality of the State, political subdivision, or municipal corporate instrumentality;
(2) Any plan, program, or pool of assets sponsored or established by the State, political subdivision, or municipal corporate instrumentality or any agency, authority, or instrumentality thereof; and
(3) Any other issuer of municipal securities.
(h)
Municipal escrow investments.
(1)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section,
municipal escrow investments
means proceeds of municipal securities and any other funds of a municipal entity that are deposited in an escrow account to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on one or more issues of municipal securities.
(2)
Reasonable reliance on representations.
In determining whether or not funds to be invested or reinvested constitute municipal escrow investments for purposes of this section, a person may rely on representations in writing made by a knowledgeable official of the municipal entity or obligated person whose funds are to be invested or reinvested regarding the nature of such investments, provided that the person seeking to rely on such representations has a reasonable basis for such reliance.
(i)
Municipal financial product
has the same meaning as in section 15B(e)(5) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(5)).
(j)
Non-resident
means:
(1) In the case of an individual, one who resides in or has his principal office and place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States;
(2) In the case of a corporation, one incorporated in or having its principal office and place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States; or
(3) In the case of a partnership or other unincorporated organization or association, one having its principal office and place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(k)
Obligated person
has the same meaning as in section 15B(e)(10) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(10));
provided,
however,
that the term
obligated person
shall not include:
(1) A person who provides municipal bond insurance, letters of credit, or other liquidity facilities;
(2) A person whose financial information or operating data is not material to a municipal securities offering, without reference to any municipal bond insurance, letter of credit, liquidity facility, or other credit enhancement; or
(3) The federal government.
(l)
Principal office and place of business
means the executive office of the municipal advisor from which the officers, partners, or managers of the municipal advisor direct, control, and coordinate the activities of the municipal advisor.
(m)(1)
Proceeds of municipal securities—In general.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (m)(2) and (m)(3) of this section,
proceeds of municipal securities
means monies derived by a municipal entity from the sale of municipal securities, investment income derived from the investment or reinvestment of such monies, and any monies of a municipal entity or obligated person held in funds under legal documents for the municipal securities that are reasonably expected to be used as security or a source of payment for the payment of the debt service on the municipal securities, including reserves, sinking funds, and pledged funds created for such purpose, and the investment income derived from the investment or reinvestment of monies in such funds. When such monies are spent to carry out the authorized purposes of municipal securities, they cease to be proceeds of municipal securities.
(2)
Exception for Section 529 college savings plans.
Solely for purposes of this paragraph (m), monies derived from a municipal security issued by an education trust established by a State under Section 529(b) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 529(b)) are not proceeds of municipal securities.
(3)
Reasonable reliance on representations.
In determining whether or not funds to be invested constitute proceeds of municipal securities for purposes of this section, a person may rely on representations in writing made by a knowledgeable official of the municipal entity or obligated person whose funds are to be invested regarding the nature of such funds, provided that the person seeking to rely on such representations has a reasonable basis for such reliance.
(n)
Solicitation of a municipal entity or obligated person
has the same meaning as in section 15B(e)(9) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(9));
provided, however,
that a solicitation does not include:
(1) Advertising by a broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, or investment adviser; or
(2) Solicitation of an obligated person, if such obligated person is not acting in the capacity of an obligated person or the solicitation of the obligated person is not in connection with the issuance of municipal securities or with respect to municipal financial products.
[78 FR 67633, Nov. 12, 2013]
§ 240.15Ba1-2
Registration of municipal advisors and information regarding certain natural persons.
(a)
Form MA.
A person applying for registration with the Commission as a municipal advisor pursuant to section 15B of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4) must complete Form MA (17 CFR 249.1300) in accordance with the instructions in the Form and file the Form electronically with the Commission.
(b)
Form MA-I.
(1) A person applying for registration or registered with the Commission as a municipal advisor pursuant to section 15B of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4) must complete Form MA-I (17 CFR 249.1310) with respect to each natural person who is a person associated with the municipal advisor (as defined in section 15B(e)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(7))) and engaged in municipal advisory activities on its behalf in accordance with the instructions in the Form and file the Form electronically with the Commission.
(2) A natural person applying for registration with the Commission as a municipal advisor pursuant to section 15B of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4), in addition to completing and filing Form MA pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, must complete Form MA-I (17 CFR 249.1310) in accordance with the instructions in the Form and file the
Form electronically with the Commission.
(c)
When filed.
Each Form MA (17 CFR 249.1300) shall be considered filed with the Commission upon submission of a completed Form MA, together with all additional required documents, including all required filings of Form MA-I (17 CFR 249.1310), to the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system.
(d)
Form MA and Form MA-I are reports.
Each Form MA (17 CFR 249.1300) and Form MA-I (17 CFR 249.1310) required to be filed under this section shall constitute a report within the meaning of sections 15B(c), 17(a), 18(a), 32(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(c), 78q(a), 78r(a), 78ff(a)) and other applicable provisions of the Act.
[78 FR 67633, Nov. 12, 2013]
§ 240.15Ba1-3
Exemption of certain natural persons from registration under section 15B(a)(1)(B) of the Act.
A natural person municipal advisor shall be exempt from section 15B(a)(1)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(a)(1)(B)) if he or she:
(a) Is an associated person of an advisor that is registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15B(a)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(a)(2)) and the rules and regulations thereunder; and
(b) Engages in municipal advisory activities solely on behalf of a registered municipal advisor.
[78 FR 67633, Nov. 12, 2013]
§ 240.15Ba1-4
Withdrawal from municipal advisor registration.
(a)
Form MA-W.
Notice of withdrawal from registration as a municipal advisor shall be filed on Form MA-W (17 CFR 249.1320) in accordance with the instructions to the Form.
(b)
Electronic filing.
Any notice of withdrawal on Form MA-W (17 CFR 249.1320) must be filed electronically.
(c)
Effective date.
A notice of withdrawal from registration shall become effective for all matters on the 60th day after the filing thereof, within such longer period of time as to which the municipal advisor consents or which the Commission by order may determine as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, or within such shorter period of time as the Commission may determine. If a notice of withdrawal from registration is filed at any time subsequent to the date of the issuance of a Commission order instituting proceedings pursuant to section 15B(c) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(c)) to censure, place limitations on the activities, functions or operations of, or suspend or revoke the registration of, the municipal advisor, or if prior to the effective date of the notice of withdrawal pursuant to this paragraph (c), the Commission institutes such a proceeding or a proceeding to impose terms or conditions upon such withdrawal, the notice of withdrawal shall not become effective pursuant to this paragraph (c) except at such time and upon such terms and conditions as the Commission deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(d)
Form MA-W is a report.
Each Form MA-W (17 CFR 249.1320) required to be filed under this section shall constitute a report within the meaning of sections 15B(c), 17(a), 18(a), 32(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(c), 78q(a), 78r(a), 78ff(a)) and other applicable provisions of the Act.
[78 FR 67633, Nov. 12, 2013]
§ 240.15Ba1-5
Amendments to Form MA and Form MA-I.
(a)
When amendment is required—Form MA.
A registered municipal advisor shall promptly amend the information contained in its Form MA (17 CFR 249.1300):
(1) At least annually, within 90 days of the end of a municipal advisor's fiscal year, or of the end of the calendar year for a sole proprietor; and
(2) More frequently, if required by the General Instructions (17 CFR 249.1300), as applicable.
(b)
When amendment is required—Form MA-I.
A registered municipal advisor shall promptly amend the information contained in Form MA-I (17 CFR 249.1310) by filing an amended Form MA-I whenever the information contained in the Form MA-I becomes inaccurate for any reason.
(c)
Electronic filing of amendments.
A registered municipal advisor shall file all amendments to Form MA (17 CFR
249.1300) and Form MA-I (17 CFR 249.1310) electronically.
(d)
Amendments to Form MA and Form MA-I are reports.
Each amendment required to be filed under this section shall constitute a report within the meaning of sections 15B(c), 17(a), 18(a), 32(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(c), 78q(a), 78r(a), 78ff(a)) and other applicable provisions of the Act.
[78 FR 67633, Nov. 12, 2013]
§ 240.15Ba1-6
Consent to service of process to be filed by non-resident municipal advisors; legal opinion to be provided by non-resident municipal advisors.
(a)(1) Each non-resident municipal advisor applying for registration pursuant to section 15B(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(a)) shall, at the time of filing of the municipal advisor's application on Form MA (17 CFR 249.1300), file with the Commission a written irrevocable consent and power of attorney on Form MA-NR (17 CFR 249.1330) to appoint an agent in the United States, other than a Commission member, official, or employee, upon whom may be served any process, pleadings, or other papers in any action brought against the non-resident municipal advisor to enforce this chapter.
(2) Each municipal advisor applying for registration pursuant to or registered under section 15B of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4) shall, at the time of filing the relevant Form MA (17 CFR 249.1300) or Form MA-I (17 CFR 249.1310), file with the Commission a written irrevocable consent and power of attorney on Form MA-NR (17 CFR 249.1330) to appoint an agent in the United States, other than a Commission member, official, or employee, upon whom may be served any process, pleadings, or other papers in any action brought against the municipal advisor's non-resident general partner or non-resident managing agent, or non-resident natural persons who are persons associated with the municipal advisor (as defined in section 15B(e)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(7))) and engaged in municipal advisory activities on its behalf, to enforce this chapter.
(b) The registered municipal advisor shall communicate promptly to the Commission by filing a new Form MA-NR (17 CFR 249.1330) any change to the name or address of the agent for service of process of each such non-resident municipal advisor, general partner, managing agent, or natural persons who are persons associated with the municipal advisor (as defined in section 15B(e)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(7))) and engaged in municipal advisory activities on its behalf.
(c)(1) Each registered non-resident municipal advisor must promptly appoint a successor agent for service of process and file a new Form MA-NR (17 CFR 249.1330) if the non-resident municipal advisor discharges its identified agent for service of process or if its agent for service of process is unwilling or unable to accept service on behalf of the non-resident municipal advisor.
(2) Each registered municipal advisor must require each of its non-resident general partners or non-resident managing agents, or non-resident natural persons who are persons associated with the municipal advisor (as defined in section 15B(e)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(e)(7))) and engaged in municipal advisory activities on its behalf, to promptly appoint a successor agent for service of process and the registered municipal advisor must file a new Form MA-NR (17 CFR 249.1330) if such non-resident general partner, managing agent, or associated person discharges the identified agent for service of process or if the agent for service of process is unwilling or unable to accept service on behalf such person.
(d) Each non-resident municipal advisor applying for registration pursuant to section 15B(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(a)) shall provide an opinion of counsel on Form MA (17 CFR 249.1300) that the municipal advisor can, as a matter of law, provide the Commission with access to the books and records of the municipal advisor as required by law and that the municipal advisor can, as a matter of law, submit to inspection and examination by the Commission.
(e) Form MA-NR (17 CFR 249.1330) must be filed electronically.
[78 FR 67633, Nov. 12, 2013]
§ 240.15Ba1-7
Registration of successor to municipal advisor.
(a) In the event that a municipal advisor succeeds to and continues the business of a municipal advisor registered pursuant to section 15B(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(a)), the registration of the predecessor shall be deemed to remain effective as the registration of the successor if the successor, within 30 days after the succession, files an application for registration on Form MA (17 CFR 249.1300), and the predecessor files a notice of withdrawal from registration on Form MA-W (17 CFR 249.1320);
provided, however,
that the registration of the predecessor municipal advisor will cease to be effective as the registration of the successor municipal advisor 45 days after the application for registration on Form MA is filed by the successor.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if a municipal advisor succeeds to and continues the business of a registered predecessor municipal advisor, and the succession is based solely on a change in the predecessor's date or state of incorporation, form of organization, or composition of a partnership, the successor may, within 30 days after the succession, amend the registration of the predecessor municipal advisor on Form MA (17 CFR 249.1300) to reflect these changes. This amendment shall be deemed an application for registration filed by the predecessor and adopted by the successor.
[78 FR 67633, Nov. 12, 2013]
§ 240.15Ba1-8
Books and records to be made and maintained by municipal advisors.
(a) Every person registered or required to be registered under section 15B of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4) and the rules and regulations thereunder shall make and keep true, accurate, and current the following books and records relating to its municipal advisory activities:
(1) Originals or copies of all written communications received, and originals or copies of all written communications sent, by such municipal advisor (including inter-office memoranda and communications) relating to municipal advisory activities, regardless of the format of such communications;
(2) All check books, bank statements, general ledgers, cancelled checks and cash reconciliations of the municipal advisor;
(3) A copy of each version of the municipal advisor's policies and procedures, if any, that:
(i) Are in effect; or
(ii) At any time within the last five years were in effect, not including those in effect prior to July 1, 2014;
(4) A copy of any document created by the municipal advisor that was material to making a recommendation to a municipal entity or obligated person or that memorializes the basis for that recommendation;
(5) All written agreements (or copies thereof) entered into by the municipal advisor with any municipal entity, employee of a municipal entity, or an obligated person or otherwise relating to the business of such municipal advisor as such;
(6) A record of the names of persons who are currently, or within the past five years were, associated with the municipal advisor, not including persons associated with the municipal advisor prior to July 1, 2014;
(7) Books and records containing a list or other record of:
(i) The names, titles, and business and residence addresses of all persons associated with the municipal advisor;
(ii) All municipal entities or obligated persons with which the municipal advisor is engaging or has engaged in municipal advisory activities in the past five years, not including those prior to July 1, 2014;
(iii) The name and business address of each person to whom the municipal advisor provides or agrees to provide, directly or indirectly, payment to solicit a municipal entity, an employee of a municipal entity, or an obligated person on its behalf; and
(iv) The name and business address of each person that provides or agrees to provide, directly or indirectly, payment to the municipal advisor to solicit a municipal entity, an employee of a municipal entity, or an obligated person on its behalf; and
(8) Written consents to service of process from each natural person who is a person associated with the municipal advisor and engages in municipal
advisory activities solely on behalf of such municipal advisor.
(b)(1) All books and records required to be made under this section shall be maintained and preserved for a period of not less than five years, the first two years in an easily accessible place.
(2) Partnership articles and any amendments thereto, articles of incorporation, charters, minute books, and stock certificate books of the municipal advisor and of any predecessor, excluding those that were only in effect prior to July 1, 2014, shall be maintained in the principal office of the municipal advisor and preserved until at least three years after termination of the business or withdrawal from registration as a municipal advisor.
(c) A municipal advisor subject to paragraph (a) of this section, before ceasing to conduct or discontinuing business as a municipal advisor, shall arrange for and be responsible for the preservation of the books and records required to be maintained and preserved under this section for the remainder of the period specified in this section, and shall notify the Commission in writing, at its principal office in Washington, DC, of the exact address where such books and records will be maintained during such period.
(d)
Electronic storage permitted.
(1)
General.
The records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to this part may be maintained and preserved for the required time on:
(i) Electronic storage media, including any digital storage medium or system that meets the terms of this section; or
(ii) Paper documents.
(2)
General requirements.
The municipal advisor must:
(i) Arrange and index the records in a way that permits easy location, access, and retrieval of any particular record;
(ii) Provide promptly any of the following that the Commission (by its staff or other representatives) may request:
(A) A legible, true, and complete copy of the record in the medium and format in which it is stored;
(B) A legible, true, and complete printout of the record; and
(C) Means to access, view, and print the records; and
(iii) Separately store, for the time required for preservation of the record, a duplicate copy of the record on any medium allowed by this section.
(3)
Special requirements for electronic storage media.
In the case of records on electronic storage media, the municipal advisor must establish and maintain procedures:
(i) To maintain and preserve the records, so as to reasonably safeguard them from loss, alteration, or destruction;
(ii) To limit access to the records to properly authorized personnel and the Commission (including its staff and other representatives); and
(iii) To reasonably ensure that any reproduction of a non-electronic record on electronic storage media is complete, true, and legible when retrieved.
(e)(1) Any book or other record made, kept, maintained, and preserved in compliance with §§ 240.17a-3 and 240.17a-4, rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, or § 275.204-2 under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.
), which is substantially the same as a book or other record required to be made, kept, maintained, and preserved under this section, shall satisfy the requirements of this section.
(2) A record made and kept pursuant to any provision of paragraph (a) of this section that contains all the information required under any other provision of paragraph (a) of this section, need not be maintained in duplicate in order to meet the requirements of the other provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
(f)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, each non-resident municipal advisor registered or applying for registration pursuant to section 15B of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4) and the rules and regulations thereunder shall keep, maintain, and preserve, at a place within the United States designated in a notice from such municipal advisor as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, true, correct, complete, and current copies of books and records that such municipal advisor is required to make, keep current, maintain or preserve pursuant to any provisions of any rule or regulation of the Commission adopted under the Act.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, each non-resident municipal advisor subject to paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall furnish to the Commission a written notice specifying the address of the place within the United States where the copies of the books and records required to be kept, maintained, and preserved by such municipal advisor pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section are located. Each non-resident municipal advisor registered or applying for registration when this paragraph becomes effective shall file such notice within 30 calendar days after this paragraph becomes effective. Each non-resident municipal advisor that files an application for registration after this paragraph becomes effective shall file such notice with such application for registration.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, a non-resident municipal advisor need not keep, maintain, or preserve within the United States copies of the books and records referred to in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, if:
(i) Such non-resident municipal advisor files with the Commission, at the time or within the period provided by paragraph (f)(2) of this section, a written undertaking, in a form acceptable to the Commission and signed by a duly authorized person, to furnish to the Commission, upon demand, at the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC, or at any Regional Office of the Commission designated in such demand, true, correct, complete, and current copies of any or all of the books and records which such municipal advisor is required to make, keep current, maintain, or preserve pursuant to any provision of any rule or regulation of the Commission adopted under the Act, or any part of such books and records that may be specified in such demand. Such undertaking shall be in substantially the following form:
The undersigned hereby undertakes to furnish at its own expense to the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC or at any Regional Office of the Commission specified in a demand for copies of books and records made by or on behalf of the Commission, true, correct, complete, and current copies of any or all, or any part, of the books and records that the undersigned is required to make, keep current, maintain, or preserve pursuant to any provision of any rule or regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This undertaking shall be suspended during any period when the undersigned is making, keeping current, maintaining, and preserving copies of all of said books and records at a place within the United States in compliance with 17 CFR 240.15Ba1-7(f)(1) and (2). This undertaking shall be binding upon the undersigned and the heirs, successors and assigns of the undersigned, and the written irrevocable consents and powers of attorney of the undersigned, its general partners, and managing agents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall extend to and cover any action to enforce the same.
and
(ii) Such non-resident municipal advisor furnishes to the Commission, at such municipal advisor's own expense 14 calendar days after written demand therefor forwarded to such municipal advisor by registered mail at such municipal advisor's last address of record filed with the Commission and signed by the Secretary of the Commission or such person as the Commission may authorize to act in its behalf, true, correct, complete, and current copies of any or all books and records which such municipal advisor is required to make, keep current, maintain, or preserve pursuant to any provision of any rule or regulation of the Commission adopted under the Act, or any part of such books and records that may be specified in said written demand. Such copies shall be furnished to the Commission at the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC, or at any Regional Office of the Commission which may be specified in said written demand.
[78 FR 67633, Nov. 12, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 2779, Jan. 16, 2014]
§ 240.15Ba2-1
Application for registration of municipal securities dealers which are banks or separately identifiable departments or divisions of banks.
(a) An application for registration, pursuant to Section 15B(a) of the Act, of a municipal securities dealer which is a bank (as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act) or a separately identifiable department or division of a bank (as
defined by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board), shall be filed with the Commission on Form MSD (§ 249.950 of this chapter), in accordance with the instructions contained therein.
(b) If the information contained in any application for registration pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or in any amendment to such application, is or becomes inaccurate for any reason, applicant shall promptly file an amendment on Form MSD (§ 249.950 of this chapter) correcting such information.
(c) Every amendment filed pursuant to this rule shall constitute a “report” within the meaning of sections 17 and 32(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q and 78ff (a)).
[40 FR 49776, Oct. 24, 1975]
§ 240.15Ba2-2
Application for registration of non-bank municipal securities dealers whose business is exclusively intrastate.
(a) An application for registration, pursuant to section 15B(a) of the Act, of a municipal securities dealer who is not subject to the requirements of § 240.15Ba2-1, that is filed on or after January 25, 1993, shall be filed with the Central Registration Depository (operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.) on Form BD in accordance with the instructions contained therein.
(b) Every applicant shall file with its application for registration a statement that such applicant is filing for registration as an intrastate dealer in accordance with the requirements of this section. Such statement shall be deemed a part of the application for registration.
(c) If the information contained in any application for registration filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or in any amendment to such application, is or becomes inaccurate for any reason, the dealer shall promptly file with the Central Registration Depository an amendment on Form BD correcting such information.
(d) Every application or amendment filed with the Central Registration Depository pursuant to this section shall constitute a “report” filed with the Commission within the meaning of Sections 15(b), 15B(c), 17(a), 18(a), 32(a) (15 U.S.C. 78o(b), 78o-4(c), 78q(a), 78r(a), 78ff(a)) and other applicable provisions of the Act.
[58 FR 14, Jan. 4, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 25148, May 10, 1999; 64 FR 37594, July 12, 1999; 64 FR 42596, Aug. 5, 1999; 73 FR 4692, Jan. 28, 2008]
§ 240.15Ba2-4
Registration of successor to registered municipal securities dealer.
(a) In the event that a municipal securities dealer succeeds to and continues the business of a registered municipal securities dealer, the registration of the predecessor shall be deemed to remain effective as the registration of the successor if the successor, within 30 days after such succession, files an application for registration on Form MSD, in the case of a municipal securities dealer that is a bank or a separately identifiable department or division of a bank, or Form BD, in the case of any other municipal securities dealer, and the predecessor files a notice of withdrawal from registration on Form MSDW or Form BDW, as the case may be;
Provided, however,
That the registration of the predecessor dealer will cease to be effective as the registration of the successor dealer 45 days after the application for registration on Form MSD or Form BD is filed by such successor.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if a municipal securities dealer succeeds to and continues the business of a registered predecessor municipal securities dealer, and the succession is based solely on a change in the predecessor's date or state of incorporation, form of organization, or composition of a partnership, the successor may, within 30 days after the succession, amend the registration of the predecessor dealer on Form MSD, in the case of a predecessor municipal securities dealer that is a bank or a separately identifiable department or division of a bank, or on Form BD, in the case of any other municipal securities dealer, to reflect these changes. This amendment shall be deemed an application for registration filed by the predecessor and adopted by the successor.
[58 FR 10, Jan. 4, 1993]
§ 240.15Ba2-5
Registration of fiduciaries.
The registration of a municipal securities dealer shall be deemed to be the registration of any executor, administrator, guardian, conservator, assignee for the benefit of creditors, receiver, trustee in insolvency or bankruptcy, or other fiduciary, appointed or qualified by order, judgment, or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction to continue the business of such registered municipal securities dealer, provided that such fiduciary files with the Commission, within 30 days after entering upon the performance of his duties, a statement setting forth as to such fiduciary substantially the information required by Form MSD, if the municipal securities dealer is a bank or a separately identifiable department of a bank, or Form BD, if the municipal securities dealer is other than a bank or a separately identifiable department or division of a bank.
[41 FR 28948, July 14, 1976]
§ 240.15Ba2-6
[Reserved]
§ 240.15Bc3-1
Withdrawal from registration of municipal securities dealers.
(a) Notice of withdrawal from registration as a municipal securities dealer pursuant to Section 15B(c) (15 U.S.C. 78o-4(c)) shall be filed on Form MSDW (17 CFR 249.1110), in the case of a municipal securities dealer which is a bank or a separately identifiable department or division of a bank, or Form BDW (17 CFR 249.501a), in the case of any other municipal securities dealer, in accordance with the instructions contained therein. Prior to filing a notice of withdrawal from registration on Form MSDW (17 CFR 249.1110) or Form BDW (17 CFR 249.501a), a municipal securities dealer shall amend Form MSD (17 CFR 249.1100) in accordance with § 240.15Ba2-1(b) or amend Form BD (17 CFR 249.501) in accordance with § 240.15Ba2-2(c) to update any inaccurate information.
(b) Every notice of withdrawal from registration as a municipal securities dealer that is filed on Form BDW (17 CFR 249.501a) shall be filed with the Central Registration Depository (operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.) in accordance with applicable filing requirements. Every notice of withdrawal of Form MSDW (17 CFR 249.1110) shall be filed with the Commission.
(c) A notice of withdrawal from registration filed by a municipal securities dealer pursuant to Section 15B(c) (15 U.S.C. 78o-4(c)) shall become effective for all matters on the 60th day after the filing thereof with the Commission, within such longer period of time as to which such municipal securities dealer consents or which the Commission by order may determine as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, or within such shorter period of time as the Commission may determine. If a notice of withdrawal from registration is filed with the Commission at any time subsequent to the date of the issuance of a Commission order instituting proceedings pursuant to Section 15B(c) (15 U.S.C. 78o-4(c)) to censure, place limitations on the activities, functions or operations of, or suspend or revoke the registration of, such municipal securities dealer, or if prior to the effective date of the notice of withdrawal pursuant to this paragraph (c), the Commission institutes such a proceeding or a proceeding to impose terms or conditions upon such withdrawal, the notice of withdrawal shall not become effective pursuant to this paragraph (c) except at such time and upon such terms and conditions as the Commission deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(d) Every notice of withdrawal filed with the Central Registration Depository pursuant to this section shall constitute a “report” filed with the Commission within the meaning of Sections 15B(c), 17(a), 18(a), 32(a) (15 U.S.C. 78o-4(c), 78q(a), 78r(a), 78ff(a)) and other applicable provisions of the Act.
(e) The Commission, by order, may exempt any broker or dealer from the filing requirements provided in Form BDW (17 CFR 249.501a) under conditions that differ from the filing instructions contained in Form BDW.
[64 FR 25148, May 10, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 42596, Aug. 5, 1999; 73 FR 4692, Jan. 28, 2008]
§ 240.15Bc4-1
Persons associated with municipal advisors.
A person associated, seeking to become associated, or, at the time of the alleged misconduct, associated or seeking to become associated with a municipal advisor, shall be subject to a Commission order that censures or places limitations on the activities or functions of such person, or suspends for a period not exceeding twelve months or bars such person from being associated with a broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization, if the Commission finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such censure, placing of limitations, suspension, or bar is in the public interest and that such person has committed any act, or is subject to an order or finding, enumerated in subparagraph (A), (D), (E), (H), or (G) of paragraph (4) of section 15(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b)(4)(A), 78
o
(b)(4)(D), 78
o
(b)(4)(E), 78
o
(b)(4)(H), 78
o
(b)(4)(G)), has been convicted of any offense specified in subparagraph (B) of such paragraph (4) (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b)(4)(B)) within 10 years of the commencement of the proceedings under section 15B(c)(4) (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(c)(4)), or is enjoined from any action, conduct, or practice specified in subparagraph (C) of such paragraph (4) (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b)(4)(C)). It shall be unlawful for any person as to whom an order entered pursuant to section 15B(c)(4) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(c)(4)) or section 15B(c)(5) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4(c)(5)) suspending or barring him from being associated with a municipal advisor is in effect willfully to become, or to be, associated with a municipal advisor without the consent of the Commission, and it shall be unlawful for any municipal advisor to permit such a person to become, or remain, a person associated with it without the consent of the Commission, if such municipal advisor knew, or, in the exercise of reasonable care should have known, of such order.
[78 FR 67638, Nov. 12, 2013]
§ 240.15Bc7-1
Availability of examination reports.
(a) Upon written request, copies of any report of an examination of a municipal securities dealer made by the Commission or furnished to it by an appropriate regulatory agency pursuant to section 17(c)(3) of the Act or by a registered securities association pursuant to section 15B(c)(7)(B) of the Act shall be made available to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (the “Board”) by the Commission subject to the following limitations:
(1) The Board shall establish by rule and shall maintain adequate procedures for ensuring the confidentiality of any information made available to it by the Commission pursuant to section 15B(c)(7)(B) of the Act;
(2) Information made available to the Board shall not identify any municipal securities broker, municipal securities dealer, or associated person that is the subject of a non-public examination report.
(b) If information to be made available to the Board is furnished to the Commission on a separate form prepared by an appropriate regulatory agency other than the Commission or by a registered securities association, that form, rather than a copy of any report of an examination, will be made available to the Board, provided that the conditions set forth in this paragraph are satisfied. Within sixty days of every six month period ending May 31 and November 30, each appropriate regulatory agency or registered securities association making available information on a separate form shall furnish to the Commission two copies of a form containing the information set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(8) of this section. The Commission shall make one copy of the form promptly available to the Board. Copies of any forms furnished pursuant to this paragraph shall not identify any municipal securities broker, municipal securities dealer, or associated person that is the subject of an examination from which information was derived for the form; however, the Commission may obtain for its own use, upon request, the identity of any such examinee or the full examination reports. Furnished forms
shall include the following information:
(1) The report period.
(2)(i) With respect to a registered securities association, the number of examinations that formed the basis of the report and, of these examinations, the number that were routine, special, and financial/operational.
(ii) With respect to an appropriate regulatory agency that is a bank agency, the number of examinations that formed the basis of the report and, of these examinations, the number that were routine, special, and financial/operational. The number of examinations that formed the basis of the report of bank dealers and the number of examinations of separately identifiable departments or divisions of banks effecting municipal securities transactions.
(3) Indications of the violations of each Board rule found in examinations that formed the basis for the report.
(4) Copies of public notices issued during the report period of any formal actions and non-public information regarding any actions taken on violations of Board rules.
(5) Any comments concerning any questionable practices relating to municipal securities activities, whether or not covered by provisions of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, including the rules of the Board.
(6) Descriptions of any significant or recurring customer complaints relating to municipal securities activities received by the appropriate regulatory agency or registered securities association during the report period or by municipal securities dealers during the 12 month period preceding the examination.
(7) Description of any novel issues or interpretations arising under the Board's rules.
(8) Description of any changes to existing Board rules or additional rules that would improve the regulatory scheme for municipal securities professionals or assist in the enforcement of the Board's rules.
(c) Copies of any report of an examination of a municipal securities broker or municipal securities dealer made by the Commission or furnished to it pursuant to section 15B(c)(7)(B) or 17(c)(3) of the Act, or separate forms made available to the Commission pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, will be maintained in a non-public file.
[50 FR 48556, Nov. 26, 1985]

# Registration of Government Securities Brokers and Government Securities Dealers

# Source:
Sections 240.15.Ca1-1 through 240.15Cc1-1 appear at 52 FR 16839, May 6, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 240.15Ca1-1
Notice of government securities broker-dealer activities.
(a) Every government securities broker or government securities dealer that is a broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15 or 15B of the Act (other than a financial institution as defined in section 3(a)(46) of the Act) shall file with the Commission written notice on Form BD (§ 249.501 of this chapter) in accordance with the instructions contained therein that it is a government securities broker or government securities dealer. After July 25, 1987, every broker or dealer subject to this paragraph shall file notice that it is a government securities broker or government securities dealer prior to or on the date it begins acting as a government securities broker or government securities dealer.
(b) Every government securities broker or government securities dealer required to file notice under paragraph (a) of this section shall file with the Commission written notice on Form BD in accordance with the instructions contained therein when it ceases to be a government securities broker or government securities dealer. Notice shall be filed within 30 days after the date the broker or dealer has ceased acting as a government securities broker or a government securities dealer.
(c) Any notice required pursuant to this section shall be considered filed with the Commission if it is filed with the Central Registration Depository (operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.) in accordance with applicable filing requirements.
[52 FR 16839, May 6, 1987, as amended at 58 FR 14, Jan. 4, 1993; 64 FR 25148, May 10, 1999; 73 FR 4693, Jan. 28, 2008]
§ 240.15Ca2-1
Application for registration as a government securities broker or government securities dealer.
(a) An application for registration pursuant to Section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act, of a government securities broker or government securities dealer that is filed on or after January 25, 1993, shall be filed with the Central Registration Depository (operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.) on Form BD in accordance with the instructions contained therein.
(b) Every application or amendment filed pursuant to this section shall constitute a “report” filed with the Commission within the meaning of Sections 15, 15C, 17(a), 18, 32(a), and other applicable provisions of the Act.
[58 FR 15, Jan. 4, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 37594, July 12, 1999; 64 FR 42596, Aug. 5, 1999; 73 FR 4693, Jan. 28, 2008]
§ 240.15Ca2-2
[Reserved]
§ 240.15Ca2-3
Registration of successor to registered government securities broker or government securities dealer.
(a) In the event that a government securities broker or government securities dealer succeeds to and continues the business of a government securities broker or government securities dealer registered pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act, the registration of the predecessor shall be deemed to remain effective as the registration of the successor if the successor, within 30 days after such succession, files an application for registration on Form BD, and the predecessor files a notice of withdrawal from registration on Form BDW;
Provided, however,
That the registration of the predecessor government securities broker or government securities dealer will cease to be effective as the registration of the successor government securities broker or government securities dealer 45 days after the application for registration on Form BD is filed by such successor.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if a government securities broker or government securities dealer succeeds to and continues the business of a predecessor government securities broker or government securities dealer that is registered pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act, and the succession is based solely on a change in the predecessor's date or state of incorporation, form of organization, or composition of a partnership, the successor may, within 30 days after the succession, amend the registration of the predecessor broker or dealer on Form BD to reflect these changes. This amendment shall be deemed an application for registration filed by the predecessor and adopted by the successor.
[58 FR 11, Jan. 4, 1993]
§ 240.15Ca2-4
Registration of fiduciaries.
The registration of a government securities broker or government securities dealer pursuant to section 15C of the Act shall be deemed to be the registration of any executor, administrator, guardian, conservator, assignee for the benefit of creditors, receiver, trustee in insolvency or bankruptcy, or other fiduciary, appointed or qualified by order, judgment, or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction to continue the business of such registered government securities broker or government securities dealer, provided that such fiduciary files with the Commission, no more than 30 days after entering upon the performance of its duties, a statement setting forth as to such fiduciary substantially the information required by Form BD.
§ 240.15Ca2-5
Consent to service of process to be furnished by non-resident government securities brokers or government securities dealers and by non-resident general partners or managing agents of government securities brokers or government securities dealers.
(a) Each non-resident government securities broker or government securities dealer applying for registration pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act, each non-resident general partner of a government securities broker or government securities dealer partnership that is applying for such registration, and each non-resident managing agent of any other unincorporated government securities broker or government securities dealer that is applying
for registration, shall furnish to the Commission, in a form acceptable to the Commission, a written irrevocable consent and power of attorney that—
(1) Designates the Securities and Exchange Commission as an agent of such government securities broker or government securities dealer upon whom may be served any process, pleadings, or other papers in any civil suit or action brought in any appropriate court in any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, with respect to any cause of action,
(i) That accrues during the period beginning when such government securities broker or government securities dealer becomes registered pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act and ending either when such registration is cancelled or revoked, or when a notice filed by such government securities broker or government securities dealer to withdraw from such registration becomes effective, whichever is earlier,
(ii) That arises out of any activity, in any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, occurring in connection with the conduct of the business of such government securities broker or government securities dealer, and
(iii) That is founded, directly or indirectly, upon the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, the Investment Company Act of 1940, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, or any rule or regulation under any of those Acts, and
(2) Stipulates and agrees that any such civil suit or action may be commenced against such government securities broker or government securities dealer by the service of process upon the Commission and the forwarding of a copy thereof as provided in paragraph (c) of this section and that the service as aforesaid of any such process, pleadings, or other papers upon the Commission shall be taken and held in all courts to be as valid and binding as if due process service thereof had been made.
(b) Each government securities broker or government securities dealer registered pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act that becomes a non-resident government securities broker or government securities dealer, and each general partner or managing agent of an unincorporated government securities broker or government securities dealer registered or applying for registration pursuant to section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act who becomes a non-resident after such registration or filing of an application for such registration, shall furnish such consent and power of attorney no more than 30 days thereafter.
(c) Service of any process, pleadings, or other papers on the Commission under this rule shall be made by delivering the requisite number of copies thereof to the Secretary of the Commission or to such other person as the Commission may authorize to act in its behalf. Whenever any process, pleadings, or other papers as aforesaid are served upon the Commission, it shall promptly forward a copy thereof by registered or certified mail to the appropriate defendants at their last address of record filed with the Commission; but any failure by the Commission to forward such a copy shall have no effect on the validity of the service made upon the Commission. The Commission shall be furnished a sufficient number of copies for such purpose, and one copy for its file.
(d) For purposes of this rule the following definitions shall apply:
(1) The term
managing agent
shall mean any person, including a trustee, who directs or manages or who participates in the directing or managing of the affairs of any unincorporated organization or association that is not a partnership.
(2) The term
non-resident government securities broker or government securities dealer
shall mean (i) in the case of an individual, one who is domiciled in or has his principal place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, (ii) in the case of a corporation, one incorporated in or having its principal place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States; (iii) in the case of a partnership or other unincorporated organization or association, one having its principal place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(3) A general partner or managing agent of a government securities
broker or government securities dealer shall be deemed to be a non-resident if he is domiciled in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
§ 240.15Cc1-1
Withdrawal from registration of government securities brokers or government securities dealers.
(a) Notice of withdrawal from registration as a government securities broker or government securities dealer pursuant to Section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(1)(A)) shall be filed on Form BDW (17 CFR 249.501a) in accordance with the instructions contained therein. Every notice of withdrawal from registration as a government securities broker or dealer shall be filed with the Central Registration Depository (operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.) in accordance with applicable filing requirements. Prior to filing a notice of withdrawal from registration on Form BDW (17 CFR 249.501a), a government securities broker or government securities dealer shall amend Form BD (17 CFR 249.501) in accordance with 17 CFR 400.5(a) to update any inaccurate information.
(b) A notice of withdrawal from registration filed by a government securities broker or government securities dealer shall become effective for all matters on the 60th day after the filing thereof with the Commission, within such longer period of time as to which such government securities broker or government securities dealer consents or the Commission by order may determine as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, or within such shorter period of time as the Commission may determine. If a notice of withdrawal from registration is filed with the Commission at any time subsequent to the date of the issuance of a Commission order instituting proceedings pursuant to Section 15C(c) (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(c)) to censure, place limitations on the activities, functions or operations of, or suspend or revoke the registration of such government securities broker or government securities dealer, or if prior to the effective date of the notice of withdrawal pursuant to this paragraph (b), the Commission institutes such a proceeding or a proceeding to impose terms or conditions upon such withdrawal, the notice of withdrawal shall not become effective pursuant to this paragraph (b) except at such time and upon such terms and conditions as the Commission deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(c) Every notice of withdrawal filed with the Central Registration Depository pursuant to this section shall constitute a “report” filed with the Commission within the meaning of Sections 15(b), 15C(c), 17(a), 18(a), 32(a) (15 U.S.C. 78o(b), 78o-5(c), 78q(a), 78r(a), 78ff(a)) and other applicable provisions of the Act.
(d) The Commission, by order, may exempt any broker or dealer from the filing requirements provided in Form BDW (17 CFR 249.501a) under conditions that differ from the filing instructions contained in Form BDW.
[64 FR 25148, May 10, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 42596, Aug. 5, 1999; 73 FR 4693, Jan. 28, 2008]

# Registration and Regulation of Security-based Swap Dealers and Major Security-based Swap Participants

# Source:
Sections 240.15Fb1-1 through 240.15Fb6-2 appear at 80 FR 49013, Aug. 14, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 240.15Fb1-1.
Signatures.
(a) Required signatures to, or within, any electronic submission (including, without limitation, signatories within the forms and certifications required by §§ 240.15Fb2-1, 240.15Fb2-4, and 240.15Fb6-2) must be in typed form rather than manual format. Signatures in an HTML, XML or XBRL document that are not required may, but are not required to, be presented in a graphic or image file within the electronic filing. When used in connection with an electronic filing, the term “signature” means an electronic entry in the form of a magnetic impulse or other form of computer data compilation of any letters or series of letters or characters comprising a name, executed, adopted or authorized as a signature.
(b) Each signatory to an electronic filing (including, without limitation, each signatory to the forms and certifications required by §§ 240.15Fb2-1, 240.15Fb2-4, and 240.15Fb6-2) shall manually or electronically sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in typed form within the electronic filing (“authentication document”). Such authentication document shall be executed before or at the time the electronic filing is made. The requirements set forth in § 232.302(b) must be met with regards to the use of an electronically signed authentication document pursuant to this paragraph (b). Upon request, the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to this paragraph (b).
(c) A person required to provide a signature on an electronic submission (including, without limitation, each signatory to the forms and certifications required by §§ 240.15Fb2-1, 240.15Fb2-4, and 240.15Fb6-2) may not have the form or certification signed on his or her behalf pursuant to a power of attorney or other form of confirming authority.
(d) Each manually or electronically signed signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in typed form within the electronic filing (“authentication document”)—
(1) On Schedule F to Form SBSE (§ 249.1600 of this chapter), SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a of this chapter), or SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, shall be retained by the filer until at least three years after the form or certification has been replaced or is no longer effective;
(2) On Form SBSE-C (§ 249.1600c of this chapter) shall be retained by the filer until at least three years after the Form was filed with the Commission.
[80 FR 49013, Aug. 14, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 78229, Dec. 4, 2020]
§ 240.15Fb2-1
Registration of security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
(a)
Application.
An application for registration of a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant that is filed pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) shall be filed on Form SBSE (§ 249.1600 of this chapter) or Form SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a of this chapter) or Form SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, in accordance with paragraph (c) and the instructions to the forms. Applicants shall also file as part of their application the required certifications on Form SBSE-C (§ 249.1600c of this chapter).
(b)
Senior Officer Certification.
A senior officer shall certify on Form SBSE-C (§ 249.1600c of this chapter) that;
(1) After due inquiry, he or she has reasonably determined that the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has developed and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of federal securities laws and the rules thereunder, and
(2) He or she has documented the process by which he or she reached such determination.
(c)
Filing
—(1)
Electronic filing.
Every application for registration of a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant and any additional registration documents shall be filed electronically with the Commission through the Commission's EDGAR system.
(2)
Filing date.
An application of a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be considered filed when an applicant has submitted a complete Form SBSE-C (§ 249.1600c of this chapter) and a complete Form SBSE (§ 249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a of this chapter), or Form SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, and all required additional documents electronically with the Commission.
(d)
Conditional registration.
(1) An applicant that has submitted a complete Form SBSE-C (§ 249.1600c of this chapter) and a complete Form SBSE
(§ 249.1600 of this chapter) or Form SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a of this chapter) or Form SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), as applicable, in accordance with paragraph (c) within the time periods set forth in § 240.3a67-8 (if the person is a major security-based swap participant) or § 240.3a71-2(b) (if the person is a security-based swap dealer), and has not withdrawn its registration shall be conditionally registered.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1) of this section, an applicant that is a nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant (each as defined in § 240.15Fb2-4(a)) that is unable to provide the certification and opinion of counsel required by § 240.15Fb2-4(c)(1) shall instead provide a conditional certification and opinion of counsel as discussed in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and upon the provision of such conditional certification and opinion of counsel, shall be conditionally registered, if the nonresident applicant submits a Form SBSE-C (§ 249.1600c of this chapter) and a Form SBSE (§ 249.1600 of this chapter), SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a of this chapter) or SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), as applicable, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section within the time periods set forth in § 240.3a67-8 (if the person is a major security-based swap participant) or § 240.3a71-2(b) (if the person is a security-based swap dealer), that is complete in all respects but for the failure to provide the certification and the opinion of counsel required by § 240.15Fb2-4(c)(1), and has not withdrawn from registration.
(3) For purposes of this section, a conditional certification and opinion of counsel means a certification as required by § 240.15Fb2-4(c)(1)(i) and an opinion of counsel as required by § 240.15Fb2-4(c)(1)(ii) that identify, and are conditioned upon, the occurrence of a future action that would provide the Commission with adequate assurances of prompt access to the books and records of the nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant, and the ability of the nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant to submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission. Such future action could include:
(i) Entry by the Commission and the foreign financial regulatory authority of the jurisdiction(s) in which the nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant maintains the books and records that are addressed by the certification and opinion of counsel required by § 240.15Fb2-4(c)(1) into a memorandum of understanding, agreement, protocol, or other regulatory arrangement providing the Commission with adequate assurances of:
(A) Prompt access to the books and records of the nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant; and
(B) The ability of the nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant to submit to onsite inspection or examination by the Commission; or
(ii) Issuance by the Commission of an order granting substituted compliance in accordance with § 240.3a71-6 to the jurisdiction(s) in which the nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant maintains the books and records that are addressed by the certification and opinion of counsel required by § 240.15Fb2-4(c)(1); or
(iii) Any other action that would provide the Commission with the assurances required by § 240.15Fb2-4(c)(1)(i) and by § 240.15Fb2-4(c)(1)(ii).
(e)
Commission Decision.
(1) The Commission may deny or grant ongoing registration to a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant based on a security-based swap dealer's or major security-based swap participant's application, filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. The Commission will grant ongoing registration if it finds that the requirements of section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) are satisfied. The Commission may institute proceedings to determine whether ongoing registration should be denied if it does not or cannot make such finding or if the applicant is subject to a statutory disqualification (as described in sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(39)(A)-(F)), or the Commission is aware of inaccurate statements in the application. Such proceedings shall include notice of the grounds for denial under consideration and opportunity for hearing. At the conclusion of such proceedings, the Commission shall grant or deny such registration.
(2) If an applicant that is a nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant has become conditionally registered in reliance on paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the applicant will remain conditionally registered until the Commission acts to grant or deny ongoing registration in accordance with (e)(1) of this section. If none of the future actions in paragraph (d)(3) that are included in an applicant's conditional certification and opinion of counsel occurs within 24 months of the compliance date for § 240.15Fb2-1, and there is not otherwise a basis that would provide the Commission with the assurances required by § 240.15Fb2-4(c)(1)(i) and by § 240.15Fb2-4(c)(1)(ii), the Commission may institute proceedings thereafter to determine whether ongoing registration should be denied, in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
[80 FR 49013, Aug. 14, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 6352, Feb. 4, 2020]
§ 240.15Fb2-3
Amendments to Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, and Form SBSE-BD.
If a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant finds that the information contained in its Form SBSE (§ 249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a of this chapter), or Form SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, or in any amendment thereto, is or has become inaccurate for any reason, the security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant shall promptly file an amendment electronically with the Commission through the Commission's EDGAR system on the appropriate Form to correct such information.
§ 240.15Fb2-4
Nonresident security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
(a)
Definition.
For purposes of this section, the terms
nonresident security-based swap dealer
and
nonresident major security-based swap participant
shall mean:
(1) In the case of an individual, one who resides, or has his or her principal place of business, in any place not in the United States;
(2) In the case of a corporation, one incorporated in or having its principal place of business in any place not in the United States; or
(3) In the case of a partnership or other unincorporated organization or association, one having its principal place of business in any place not in the United States.
(b)
Power of attorney.
(1) Each nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap participant registered or applying for registration pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) shall obtain a written irrevocable consent and power of attorney appointing an agent in the United States, other than the Commission or a Commission member, official or employee, upon whom may be served any process, pleadings, or other papers in any action brought against the nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant to enforce the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
). This consent and power of attorney must be signed by the nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant and the named agent(s) for service of process.
(2) Each nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap participant registered or applying for registration pursuant to section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) shall, at the time of filing its application on Form SBSE (§ 249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a of this chapter), or Form SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, furnish to the Commission the name and address of its United States
agent for service of process on Schedule F to the appropriate form.
(3) Any change of a nonresident security-based swap dealer's and nonresident major security-based swap participant's agent for service of process and any change of name or address of a nonresident security-based swap dealer's and nonresident major security-based swap participant's existing agent for service of process shall be communicated promptly to the Commission through amendment of the Schedule F of Form SBSE (§ 249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a of this chapter), or Form SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate.
(4) Each nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap participant must promptly appoint a successor agent for service of process, consistent with the process described in paragraph (b)(1), if the nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap participant discharges its identified agent for service of process or if its agent for service of process is unwilling or unable to accept service on behalf of the nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant.
(5) Each nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap participant must maintain, as part of its books and records, the agreement identified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(4) of this section for at least three years after the agreement is terminated.
(c)
Access to books and records
—(1)
Certification and opinion of counsel.
Each nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap participant applying for registration pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b) shall:
(i) Certify on Schedule F of Form SBSE (§ 249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a of this chapter), or Form SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, that the nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap participant can, as a matter of law, and will provide the Commission with prompt access to the books and records of such nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap participant, and can, as a matter of law, and will submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission; and
(ii) Provide an opinion of counsel that the nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap participant can, as a matter of law, provide the Commission with prompt access to the books and records of such nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap participant, and can, as a matter of law, submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission.
(2)
Amendments.
Each nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap participant shall re-certify, on Schedule F to Form SBSE (§ 249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a of this chapter), or Form SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), as applicable, within 90 days after any changes in the legal or regulatory framework that would impact the nonresident security-based swap dealer's or nonresident major security-based swap participant's ability to provide, or the manner in which it provides the Commission with prompt access to its books and records, or would impact the Commission's ability to inspect and examine the nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant. The re-certification shall be accompanied by a revised opinion of counsel describing how, as a matter of law, the nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant will continue to meet its obligations to provide the Commission with prompt access to its books and records and to be subject to Commission inspection and examination under the new regulatory regime.
§ 240.15Fb2-5
Registration of successor to registered security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant.
(a) In the event that a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant succeeds to and continues the business of a security-based
swap dealer or major security-based swap participant registered pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)), the registration of the predecessor shall be deemed to remain effective as the registration of the successor if the successor, within 30 days after such succession, files an application for registration in accordance with § 240.15Fb2-1, and the predecessor files a notice of withdrawal from registration on Form SBSE-W (§ 249.1601 of this chapter).
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant succeeds to and continues the business of a registered predecessor security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, and the succession is based solely on a change in the predecessor's date or state of incorporation, form of organization, or composition of a partnership, the successor may, within 30 days after the succession, amend the registration of the predecessor security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant on Form SBSE (§ 249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a of this chapter), or Form SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, to reflect these changes. This amendment shall be deemed an application for registration filed by the predecessor and adopted by the successor.
§ 240.15Fb2-6
Registration of fiduciaries.
The registration of a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant shall be deemed to be the registration of any executor, administrator, guardian, conservator, assignee for the benefit of creditors, receiver, trustee in insolvency or bankruptcy, or other fiduciary, appointed or qualified by order, judgment, or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction to continue the business of such registered security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant; Provided, that such fiduciary files with the Commission, within 30 days after entering upon the performance of his or her duties, an amended Form SBSE (§ 249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a of this chapter), or Form SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, indicating the fiduciary's position with respect to management of the firm and, as an additional document, a copy of the order, judgment, decree, or other document appointing the fiduciary.
§ 240.15Fb3-1
Duration of registration.
(a)
General.
A person registered as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant in accordance with § 240.15Fb2-1 will continue to be so registered until the effective date of any cancellation, revocation or withdrawal of such registration.
(b)
Conditional registration.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, conditional registration shall expire on the date the registrant withdraws from registration or the Commission grants or denies the person's ongoing registration in accordance with § 240.15Fb2-1(e).
§ 240.15Fb3-2
Withdrawal from registration.
(a) Notice of withdrawal from registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) shall be filed on Form SBSE-W (§ 249.1601 of this chapter) in accordance with the instructions contained therein. Every notice of withdrawal from registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall be filed electronically with the Commission through the Commission's EDGAR system. Prior to filing a notice of withdrawal from registration on Form SBSE-W, a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall amend its Form SBSE (§ 249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a of this chapter) or Form SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, in accordance with § 240.15Fb2-3(a) to update any inaccurate information.
(b) A notice of withdrawal from registration filed by a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) shall become effective for all matters (except as provided in this paragraph (b)) on the 60th day after the filing thereof with the Commission or its designee, within such longer period of time as to which such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant consents or which the Commission by order may determine as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, or within such shorter period of time as the Commission may determine. If a notice of withdrawal from registration is filed with the Commission at any time subsequent to the date of the issuance of a Commission order instituting proceedings to censure, place limitations on the activities, functions or operations of, or suspend or revoke the registration of, such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, or if prior to the effective date of the notice of withdrawal pursuant to this paragraph (b), the Commission institutes such a proceeding or a proceeding to impose terms or conditions upon such withdrawal, the notice of withdrawal shall not become effective pursuant to this paragraph (b) except at such time and upon such terms and conditions as the Commission deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
§ 240.15Fb3-3
Cancellation and revocation of registration.
(a)
Cancellation.
If the Commission finds that any person registered pursuant to § 240.15Fb2-1 is no longer in existence or has ceased to do business as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, the Commission shall by order cancel the registration of such person.
(b)
Revocation.
The Commission, by order, shall censure, place limitations on the activities, functions, or operations of, or revoke the registration of any security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant that has registered with the Commission if it makes a finding as specified in Section 15F(l)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(l)(2)).
§ 240.15Fb6-1
[Reserved]
§ 240.15Fb6-2
Associated person certification.
(a)
Certification.
No registered security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall act as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant unless it has certified electronically on Form SBSE-C (Section 249.1600c of this chapter) that it neither knows, nor in the exercise of reasonable care should have known, that any person associated with such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant who effects or is involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is subject to a statutory disqualification, as described in Sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(39)(A)-(F)), unless otherwise specifically provided by rule, regulation or order of the Commission.
(b) To support the certification required by paragraph (a) of this section, the security-based swap dealer's or major security-based swap participant's Chief Compliance Officer, or his or her designee, shall review and sign the questionnaire or application for employment, which the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is required to obtain pursuant to the relevant recordkeeping rule applicable to such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, executed by each associated person who is a natural person and who effects or is involved in effecting security based swaps on the security-based swap dealer's or major security-based swap participant's behalf. The questionnaire or application shall serve as a basis for a background check of the associated person to verify that the person is not subject to statutory disqualification.
§ 240.15Fh-1
Scope and reliance on representations.
(a)
Scope.
Sections 240.15Fh-1 through 240.15Fh-6, and 240.15Fk-1 are not intended to limit, or restrict, the applicability of other provisions of the federal securities laws, including but not
limited to section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 and sections 9 and 10(b) of the Act, and rules and regulations thereunder, or other applicable laws and rules and regulations. Sections 240.15Fh-1 through 240.15Fh-6, and 240.15Fk-1 apply, as relevant, in connection with entering into security-based swaps and continue to apply, as appropriate, over the term of executed security-based swaps. Sections 240.15Fh-3(a) through 240.15Fh-3(f), 240.15Fh-4(b) and 240.15Fh-5 are not applicable to security-based swaps that security-based swap dealers or major security-based swap participants enter into with their majority-owned affiliates. For these purposes the counterparties to a security-based swap are majority-owned affiliates if one counterparty directly or indirectly owns a majority interest in the other, or if a third party directly or indirectly owns a majority interest in both counterparties to the security-based swap, where “majority interest” is the right to vote or direct the vote of a majority of a class of voting securities of an entity, the power to sell or direct the sale of a majority of a class of voting securities of an entity, or the right to receive upon dissolution or the contribution of a majority of the capital of a partnership.
(b)
Reliance on representations.
A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant may rely on written representations from the counterparty or its representative to satisfy its due diligence requirements under § 240.15Fh, unless it has information that would cause a reasonable person to question the accuracy of the representation.
[81 FR 30144, May 13, 2016]
§ 240.15Fh-2
Definitions.
As used in §§ 240.15Fh-1 through 240.15Fh-6:
(a)
Act as an advisor to a special entity.
A security-based swap dealer
acts as an advisor to a special entity
when it recommends a security-based swap or a trading strategy that involves the use of a security-based swap to the special entity, unless:
(1) With respect to a special entity as defined in § 240.15Fh-2(d)(3):
(i) The special entity represents in writing that it has a fiduciary as defined in section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002) that is responsible for representing the special entity in connection with the security-based swap;
(ii) The fiduciary represents in writing that it acknowledges that the security-based swap dealer is not acting as an advisor; and
(iii) The special entity represents in writing:
(A) That it will comply in good faith with written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that any recommendation the special entity receives from the security-based swap dealer involving a security-based swap transaction is evaluated by a fiduciary before the transaction is entered into; or
(B) That any recommendation the special entity receives from the security-based swap dealer involving a security-based swap transaction will be evaluated by a fiduciary before the transaction is entered into.
(2) With respect to any special entity:
(i) The special entity represents in writing that:
(A) It acknowledges that the security-based swap dealer is not acting as an advisor; and
(B) The special entity will rely on advice from a qualified independent representative as defined in § 240.15Fh-5(a); and
(ii) The security-based swap dealer discloses to the special entity that it is not undertaking to act in the best interest of the special entity, as otherwise required by section 15F(h)(4) of the Act.
(b)
Eligible contract participant
means any person as defined in section 3(a)(65) of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a) and the rules and regulations thereunder.
(c)
Security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant
includes, where relevant, an associated person of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.
(d)
Special entity
means:
(1) A Federal agency;
(2) A State, State agency, city, county, municipality, other political subdivision of a State, or any instrumentality, department, or a corporation of or established by a State or political subdivision of a State;
(3) Any employee benefit plan, subject to Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002);
(4) Any employee benefit plan defined in section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002) and not otherwise defined as a special entity, unless such employee benefit plan elects not to be a special entity by notifying a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant of its election prior to entering into a security-based swap with the particular security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant;
(5) Any governmental plan, as defined in section 3(32) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002(32)); or
(6) Any endowment, including an endowment that is an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(e) A person is
subject to a statutory disqualification
for purposes of § 240.15Fh-5 if that person would be subject to a statutory disqualification, as described in section 3(a)(39)(A)-(F) of the Act.
[81 FR 30144, May 13, 2016]
§ 240.15Fh-3
Business conduct requirements.
(a)
Counterparty status
—(1)
Eligible contract participant.
A security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant shall verify that a counterparty meets the eligibility standards for an eligible contract participant before entering into a security-based swap with that counterparty, provided that the requirements of this paragraph (a)(1) shall not apply to a transaction executed on a registered national securities exchange.
(2)
Special entity.
A security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant shall verify whether a counterparty is a special entity before entering into a security-based swap with that counterparty, unless the transaction is executed on a registered or exempt security-based swap execution facility or registered national securities exchange, and the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant does not know the identity of the counterparty at a reasonably sufficient time prior to execution of the transaction to permit the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant to comply with the obligations of paragraph (a) of this section.
(3)
Special entity election.
In verifying the special entity status of a counterparty pursuant to § 240.15Fh-3(a)(2), a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall verify whether a counterparty is eligible to elect not to be a special entity under § 240.15Fh-2(d)(4) and, if so, notify such counterparty of its right to make such an election.
(b)
Disclosure.
At a reasonably sufficient time prior to entering into a security-based swap, a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall disclose to a counterparty, other than a security-based swap dealer, major security-based swap participant, swap dealer or major swap participant, material information concerning the security-based swap in a manner reasonably designed to allow the counterparty to assess the material risks and characteristics and material incentives or conflicts of interest, as described below, so long as the identity of the counterparty is known to the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant at a reasonably sufficient time prior to execution of the transaction to permit the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant to comply with the obligations of paragraph (b) of this section.
(1)
Material risks and characteristics
means the material risks and characteristics of the particular security-based swap, which may include:
(i) Market, credit, liquidity, foreign currency, legal, operational, and any other applicable risks; and
(ii) The material economic terms of the security-based swap, the terms relating to the operation of the security-
based swap, and the rights and obligations of the parties during the term of the security-based swap.
(2)
Material incentives or conflicts of interest
means any material incentives or conflicts of interest that the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant may have in connection with the security-based swap, including any compensation or other incentives from any source other than the counterparty in connection with the security-based swap to be entered into with the counterparty.
(3)
Record.
The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall make a written record of the non-written disclosures made pursuant to this paragraph (b), and provide a written version of these disclosures to its counterparties in a timely manner, but in any case no later than the delivery of the trade acknowledgement of the particular transaction pursuant to § 240.15Fi-1.
(c)
Daily mark.
A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall disclose the daily mark to the counterparty, other than a security-based swap dealer, major security-based swap participant, swap dealer or major swap participant, which shall be:
(1) For a cleared security-based swap, upon request of the counterparty, the daily mark that the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant receives from the appropriate clearing agency;
(2) For an uncleared security-based swap, the midpoint between the bid and offer, or the calculated equivalent thereof, as of the close of business, unless the parties agree in writing otherwise to a different time, on each business day during the term of the security-based swap. The daily mark may be based on market quotations for comparable security-based swaps, mathematical models or a combination thereof. The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall also disclose its data sources and a description of the methodology and assumptions used to prepare the daily mark, and promptly disclose any material changes to such data sources, methodology and assumptions during the term of the security-based swap; and
(3) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall provide the daily mark without charge to the counterparty and without restrictions on the internal use of the daily mark by the counterparty.
(d)
Disclosure regarding clearing rights.
A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall disclose the following information to a counterparty, other than a security-based swap dealer, major security-based swap participant, swap dealer or major swap participant, so long as the identity of the counterparty is known to the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant at a reasonably sufficient time prior to execution of the transaction to permit the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant to comply with the obligations of paragraph (d) of this section:
(1)
For security-based swaps subject to clearing requirement.
Before entering into a security-based swap subject to the clearing requirement under section 3C(a) of the Act, a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall:
(i) Disclose to the counterparty the names of the clearing agencies that accept the security-based swap for clearing, and through which of those clearing agencies the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is authorized or permitted, directly or through a designated clearing member, to clear the security-based swap; and
(ii) Notify the counterparty that it shall have the sole right to select which of the clearing agencies described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section shall be used to clear the security-based swap subject to section 3C(g)(5) of the Act.
(2)
For security-based swaps not subject to clearing requirement.
Before entering into a security-based swap not subject to the clearing requirement under section 3C(a) of the Act, a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall:
(i) Determine whether the security-based swap is accepted for clearing by one or more clearing agencies;
(ii) Disclose to the counterparty the names of the clearing agencies that accept the security-based swap for clearing, and whether the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is authorized or permitted, directly or through a designated clearing member, to clear the security-based swap through such clearing agencies; and
(iii) Notify the counterparty that it may elect to require clearing of the security-based swap and shall have the sole right to select the clearing agency at which the security-based swap will be cleared, provided it is a clearing agency at which the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is authorized or permitted, directly or through a designated clearing member, to clear the security-based swap.
(3)
Record.
The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall make a written record of the non-written disclosures made pursuant to this paragraph (d), and provide a written version of these disclosures to its counterparties in a timely manner, but in any case no later than the delivery of the trade acknowledgement of the particular transaction pursuant to § 240.15Fi-1.
(e)
Know your counterparty.
Each security-based swap dealer shall establish, maintain and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to obtain and retain a record of the essential facts concerning each counterparty whose identity is known to the security-based swap dealer that are necessary for conducting business with such counterparty. For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, the
essential facts concerning a counterparty
are:
(1) Facts required to comply with applicable laws, regulations and rules;
(2) Facts required to implement the security-based swap dealer's credit and operational risk management policies in connection with transactions entered into with such counterparty; and
(3) Information regarding the authority of any person acting for such counterparty.
(f)
Recommendations of security-based swaps or trading strategies.
(1) A security-based swap dealer that recommends a security-based swap or trading strategy involving a security-based swap to a counterparty, other than a security-based swap dealer, major security-based swap participant, swap dealer, or major swap participant, must:
(i) Undertake reasonable diligence to understand the potential risks and rewards associated with the recommended security-based swap or trading strategy involving a security-based swap; and
(ii) Have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommended security-based swap or trading strategy involving a security-based swap is suitable for the counterparty. To establish a reasonable basis for a recommendation, a security-based swap dealer must have or obtain relevant information regarding the counterparty, including the counterparty's investment profile, trading objectives, and its ability to absorb potential losses associated with the recommended security-based swap or trading strategy involving a security-based swap.
(2) A security-based swap dealer may also fulfill its obligations under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section with respect to an institutional counterparty, if:
(i) The security-based swap dealer reasonably determines that the counterparty, or an agent to which the counterparty has delegated decision-making authority, is capable of independently evaluating investment risks with regard to the relevant security-based swap or trading strategy involving a security-based swap;
(ii) The counterparty or its agent affirmatively represents in writing that it is exercising independent judgment in evaluating the recommendations of the security-based swap dealer with regard to the relevant security-based swap or trading strategy involving a security-based swap; and
(iii) The security-based swap dealer discloses that it is acting in its capacity as a counterparty, and is not undertaking to assess the suitability of the security-based swap or trading strategy for the counterparty.
(3) A security-based swap dealer will be deemed to have satisfied its obligations under paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this
section if it receives written representations, as provided in § 240.15Fh-1(b), that:
(i) In the case of a counterparty that is not a special entity, the counterparty has complied in good faith with written policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to ensure that the persons responsible for evaluating the recommendation and making trading decisions on behalf of the counterparty are capable of doing so; or
(ii) In the case of a counterparty that is a special entity, satisfy the terms of the safe harbor in § 240.15Fh-5(b).
(4) For purposes of paragraph (f)(2) of this section, an institutional counterparty is a counterparty that is an eligible contract participant as defined in clauses (A)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (viii), (ix) or (x), or clause (B)(ii) (other than a person described in clause (A)(v)) of section 1a(18) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1(a)(18)) and the rules and regulations thereunder, or any person (whether a natural person, corporation, partnership, trust or otherwise) with total assets of at least $50 million.
(g)
Fair and balanced communications.
A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall communicate with counterparties in a fair and balanced manner based on principles of fair dealing and good faith. In particular:
(1) Communications must provide a sound basis for evaluating the facts with regard to any particular security-based swap or trading strategy involving a security-based swap;
(2) Communications may not imply that past performance will recur or make any exaggerated or unwarranted claim, opinion or forecast; and
(3) Any statement referring to the potential opportunities or advantages presented by a security-based swap shall be balanced by an equally detailed statement of the corresponding risks.
(h)
Supervision
—(1)
In general.
A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall establish and maintain a system to supervise, and shall diligently supervise, its business and the activities of its associated persons. Such a system shall be reasonably designed to prevent violations of the provisions of applicable federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder relating to its business as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, respectively.
(2)
Minimum requirements.
The system required by paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall, at a minimum, provide for:
(i) The designation of at least one person with authority to carry out the supervisory responsibilities of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant for each type of business in which it engages for which registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is required;
(ii) The use of reasonable efforts to determine that all supervisors are qualified, either by virtue of experience or training, to carry out their assigned responsibilities; and
(iii) Establishment, maintenance and enforcement of written policies and procedures addressing the supervision of the types of security-based swap business in which the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is engaged and the activities of its associated persons that are reasonably designed to prevent violations of applicable federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder, and that include, at a minimum:
(A) Procedures for the review by a supervisor of transactions for which registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is required;
(B) Procedures for the review by a supervisor of incoming and outgoing written (including electronic) correspondence with counterparties or potential counterparties and internal written communications relating to the security-based swap dealer's or major security-based swap participant's business involving security-based swaps;
(C) Procedures for a periodic review, at least annually, of the security-based swap business in which the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant engages that is
reasonably designed to assist in detecting and preventing violations of applicable federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder;
(D) Procedures to conduct a reasonable investigation regarding the good character, business repute, qualifications, and experience of any person prior to that person's association with the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant;
(E) Procedures to consider whether to permit an associated person to establish or maintain a securities or commodities account or a trading relationship in the name of, or for the benefit of such associated person, at another security-based swap dealer, broker, dealer, investment adviser, or other financial institution; and if permitted, procedures to supervise the trading at the other security-based swap dealer, broker, dealer, investment adviser, or financial institution;
(F) A description of the supervisory system, including the titles, qualifications and locations of supervisory persons and the responsibilities of each supervisory person with respect to the types of business in which the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is engaged;
(G) Procedures prohibiting an associated person who performs a supervisory function from supervising his or her own activities or reporting to, or having his or her compensation or continued employment determined by, a person or persons he or she is supervising; provided, however, that if the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant determines, with respect to any of its supervisory personnel, that compliance with this requirement is not possible because of the firm's size or a supervisory person's position within the firm, the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must document the factors used to reach such determination and how the supervisory arrangement with respect to such supervisory personnel otherwise complies with paragraph (h)(1) of this section, and include a summary of such determination in the annual compliance report prepared by the security-based swap dealer's or major security-based swap participant's chief compliance officer pursuant to § 240.15Fk-1(c);
(H) Procedures reasonably designed to prevent the supervisory system required by paragraph (h)(1) of this section from being compromised due to the conflicts of interest that may be present with respect to the associated person being supervised, including the position of such person, the revenue such person generates for the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, or any compensation that the associated person conducting the supervision may derive from the associated person being supervised; and
(I) Procedures reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of such security-based swap dealer's or major security-based swap participant's business, to comply with the duties set forth in section 15F(j) of the Act.
(3)
Failure to supervise.
A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant or an associated person of a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall not be deemed to have failed to diligently supervise any other person, if such other person is not subject to his or her supervision, or if:
(i) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has established and maintained written policies and procedures as required in § 240.15Fh-3(h)(2)(iii), and a documented system for applying those policies and procedures, that would reasonably be expected to prevent and detect, insofar as practicable, any violation of the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder relating to security-based swaps; and
(ii) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, or associated person of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, has reasonably discharged the duties and obligations required by such written policies and procedures and documented system and did not have a reasonable basis to believe that such written policies and procedures and documented system were not being followed.
(4)
Maintenance of written supervisory procedures.
A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall:
(i) Promptly amend its written supervisory procedures as appropriate when material changes occur in applicable securities laws or rules or regulations thereunder, and when material changes occur in its business or supervisory system; and
(ii) Promptly communicate any material amendments to its supervisory procedures to all associated persons to whom such amendments are relevant based on their activities and responsibilities.
[81 FR 30144, May 13, 2016]
§ 240.15fh-4
(Rule 15fh-4) Antifraud provisions for security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants; special requirements for security-based swap dealers acting as advisors to special entities.
(a)
Antifraud provisions.
It shall be unlawful for a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant:
(1) To employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud any special entity or prospective customer who is a special entity;
(2) To engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business that operates as a fraud or deceit on any special entity or prospective customer who is a special entity; or
(3) To engage in any act, practice, or course of business that is fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative.
(b)
Special requirements for security-based swap dealers acting as advisors to special entities.
A security-based swap dealer that acts as an advisor to a special entity regarding a security-based swap shall comply with the following requirements:
(1)
Duty.
The security-based swap dealer shall have a duty to make a reasonable determination that any security-based swap or trading strategy involving a security-based swap recommended by the security-based swap dealer is in the best interests of the special entity.
(2)
Reasonable efforts.
The security-based swap dealer shall make reasonable efforts to obtain such information that the security-based swap dealer considers necessary to make a reasonable determination that a security-based swap or trading strategy involving a security-based swap is in the best interests of the special entity. This information shall include, but not be limited to:
(i) The authority of the special entity to enter into a security-based swap;
(ii) The financial status of the special entity, as well as future funding needs;
(iii) The tax status of the special entity;
(iv) The hedging, investment, financing or other objectives of the special entity;
(v) The experience of the special entity with respect to entering into security-based swaps, generally, and security-based swaps of the type and complexity being recommended;
(vi) Whether the special entity has the financial capability to withstand changes in market conditions during the term of the security-based swap; and
(vii) Such other information as is relevant to the particular facts and circumstances of the special entity, market conditions and the type of security-based swap or trading strategy involving a security-based swap being recommended.
(3)
Exception.
The requirements of this paragraph (b) shall not apply with respect to a security-based swap if:
(i) The transaction is executed on a registered or exempt security-based swap execution facility or registered national securities exchange; and
(ii) The security-based swap dealer does not know the identity of the counterparty at a reasonably sufficient time prior to execution of the transaction to permit the security-based swap dealer to comply with the obligations of paragraph (b) of this section.
(c)
No undue influence over chief compliance officer.
It shall be unlawful for any officer, director, supervised person, or employee of a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, or any person acting under such person's direction, to directly or indirectly take any action to coerce, manipulate, mislead, or fraudulently
influence the security-based swap dealer's or major security-based swap participant's chief compliance officer in the performance of their duties under the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.
[81 FR 30144, May 13, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 42585, June 30, 2023]
§ 240.15Fh-5
Special requirements for security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants acting as counterparties to special entities.
(a)(1) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant that offers to enter into or enters into a security-based swap with a special entity, other than a special entity defined in § 240.15Fh-2(d)(3), must have a reasonable basis to believe that the special entity has a qualified independent representative. For these purposes, a qualified independent representative is a representative that:
(i) Has sufficient knowledge to evaluate the transaction and risks;
(ii) Is not subject to a statutory disqualification;
(iii) Undertakes a duty to act in the best interests of the special entity;
(iv) Makes appropriate and timely disclosures to the special entity of material information concerning the security-based swap;
(v) Evaluates, consistent with any guidelines provided by the special entity, the fair pricing and the appropriateness of the security-based swap;
(vi) In the case of a special entity defined in §§ 240.15Fh-2(d)(2) or (5), is a person that is subject to rules of the Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or a self-regulatory organization subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission prohibiting it from engaging in specified activities if certain political contributions have been made,
provided that
this paragraph (a)(1)(vi) shall not apply if the independent representative is an employee of the special entity; and
(vii) Is independent of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.
(A) A representative of a special entity is independent of a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant if the representative does not have a relationship with the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, whether compensatory or otherwise, that reasonably could affect the independent judgment or decision-making of the representative.
(B) A representative of a special entity will be deemed to be independent of a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant if:
(
1
) The representative is not and, within one year of representing the special entity in connection with the security-based swap, was not an associated person of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant;
(
2
) The representative provides timely disclosures to the special entity of all material conflicts of interest that could reasonably affect the judgment or decision making of the representative with respect to its obligations to the special entity and complies with policies and procedures reasonably designed to manage and mitigate such material conflicts of interest; and
(
3
) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant did not refer, recommend, or introduce the representative to the special entity within one year of the representative's representation of the special entity in connection with the security-based swap.
(2) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant that offers to enter into or enters into a security-based swap with a special entity as defined in § 240.15Fh-2(d)(3) must have a reasonable basis to believe that the special entity has a representative that is a fiduciary as defined in section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002).
(b)
Safe harbor.
(1) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall be deemed to have a reasonable basis to believe that the special entity, other than a special entity defined in § 240.15Fh-2(d)(3), has a representative that satisfies the applicable requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, provided that:
(i) The special entity represents in writing to the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant that it has complied in good faith with written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that it has selected a representative that satisfies the applicable requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and that such policies and procedures provide for ongoing monitoring of the performance of such representative consistent with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
(ii) The representative represents in writing to the special entity and security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant that the representative:
(A) Has policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that it satisfies the applicable requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(B) Meets the independence test in paragraph (a)(1)(vii) of this section; has the knowledge required under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section; is not subject to a statutory disqualification under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section; undertakes a duty to act in the best interests of the special entity as required under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section; and is subject to the requirements regarding political contributions, as applicable, under paragraph (a)(1)(vi) of this section; and
(C) Is legally obligated to comply with the applicable requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section by agreement, condition of employment, law, rule, regulation, or other enforceable duty.
(2) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall be deemed to have a reasonable basis to believe that a special entity defined in § 240.15Fh-2(d)(3) of this section has a representative that satisfies the applicable requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, provided that the special entity provides in writing to the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant the representative's name and contact information, and represents in writing that the representative is a fiduciary as defined in section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002).
(c) Before initiation of a security-based swap with a special entity, a security-based swap dealer shall disclose to the special entity in writing the capacity in which the security-based swap dealer is acting in connection with the security-based swap and, if the security-based swap dealer engages in business with the counterparty in more than one capacity, the security-based swap dealer shall disclose the material differences between such capacities and any other financial transaction or service involving the counterparty.
(d) The requirements of this section shall not apply with respect to a security-based swap if:
(1) The transaction is executed on a registered or exempt security-based swap execution facility or registered national securities exchange; and
(2) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant does not know the identity of the counterparty at a reasonably sufficient time prior to execution of the transaction to permit the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant to comply with the obligations of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
[81 FR 30144, May 13, 2016]
§ 240.15Fh-6
Political contributions by certain security-based swap dealers.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
(1) The term
contribution
means any gift, subscription, loan, advance, or deposit of money or anything of value made:
(i) For the purpose of influencing any election for federal, state or local office;
(ii) For payment of debt incurred in connection with any such election; or
(iii) For transition or inaugural expenses incurred by the successful candidate for state or local office.
(2) The term
covered associate
means:
(i) Any general partner, managing member or executive officer, or other person with a similar status or function;
(ii) Any employee who solicits a municipal entity to enter into a security-based swap with the security-based
swap dealer and any person who supervises, directly or indirectly, such employee; and
(iii) A political action committee controlled by the security-based swap dealer or by a person described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(3) The term
executive officer of a security-based swap dealer
means:
(i) The president;
(ii) Any vice president in charge of a principal business unit, division or function (such as sales, administration or finance);
(iii) Any other officer of the security-based swap dealer who performs a policy-making function; or
(iv) Any other person who performs similar policy-making functions for the security-based swap dealer.
(4) The term
municipal entity
is defined in section 15B(e)(8) of the Act.
(5) The term
official of a municipal entity
means any person (including any election committee for such person) who was, at the time of the contribution, an incumbent, candidate or successful candidate for elective office of a municipal entity, if the office:
(i) Is directly or indirectly responsible for, or can influence the outcome of, the selection of a security-based swap dealer by a municipal entity; or
(ii) Has authority to appoint any person who is directly or indirectly responsible for, or can influence the outcome of, the selection of a security-based swap dealer by a municipal entity.
(6) The term
payment
means any gift, subscription, loan, advance, or deposit of money or anything of value.
(7) The term
regulated person
means:
(i) A person that is subject to rules of the Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or a self-regulatory organization subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission prohibiting it from engaging in specified activities if certain political contributions have been made, or its officers or employees;
(ii) A general partner, managing member or executive officer of such person, or other individual with a similar status or function; or
(iii) An employee of such person who solicits a municipal entity for the security-based swap dealer and any person who supervises, directly or indirectly, such employee.
(8) The term
solicit
means a direct or indirect communication by any person with a municipal entity for the purpose of obtaining or retaining an engagement related to a security-based swap.
(b)
Prohibitions and exceptions.
(1) It shall be unlawful for a security-based swap dealer to offer to enter into, or enter into, a security-based swap, or a trading strategy involving a security-based swap, with a municipal entity within two years after any contribution to an official of such municipal entity was made by the security-based swap dealer, or by any covered associate of the security-based swap dealer.
(2) The prohibition in paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply:
(i) If the only contributions made by the security-based swap dealer to an official of such municipal entity were made by a covered associate, if a natural person:
(A) To officials for whom the covered associate was entitled to vote at the time of the contributions,
if
the contributions in the aggregate do not exceed $350 to any one official per election; or
(B) To officials for whom the covered associate was not entitled to vote at the time of the contributions,
if
the contributions in the aggregate do not exceed $150 to any one official, per election;
(ii) To a security-based swap dealer as a result of a contribution made by a natural person more than six months prior to becoming a covered associate of the security-based swap dealer,
however,
this exclusion shall not apply if the natural person, after becoming a covered associate, solicits the municipal entity on behalf of the security-based swap dealer to offer to enter into, or to enter into, security-based swap, or a trading strategy involving a security-based swap; or
(iii) With respect to a security-based swap that is executed on a registered national securities exchange or registered or exempt security-based swap execution facility where the security-based swap dealer does not know the identity of the counterparty to the transaction at a reasonably sufficient
time prior to execution of the transaction to permit the security-based swap dealer to comply with the obligations of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) No security-based swap dealer or any covered associate of the security-based swap dealer shall:
(i) Provide or agree to provide, directly or indirectly, payment to any person to solicit a municipal entity to offer to enter into, or to enter into, a security-based swap or any trading strategy involving a security-based swap with that security-based swap dealer unless such person is a regulated person; or
(ii) Coordinate, or solicit any person or political action committee to make, any:
(A) Contribution to an official of a municipal entity with which the security-based swap dealer is offering to enter into, or has entered into, a security-based swap or a trading strategy involving a security-based swap; or
(B) Payment to a political party of a state or locality with which the security-based swap dealer is offering to enter into, or has entered into, a security-based swap or a trading strategy involving a security-based swap.
(c)
Circumvention of rule.
No security-based swap dealer shall, directly or indirectly, through or by any other person or means, do any act that would result in a violation of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
(d)
Requests for exemption.
The Commission, upon application, may conditionally or unconditionally exempt a security-based swap dealer from the prohibition under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the Commission will consider, among other factors:
(1) Whether the exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes of the Act;
(2) Whether the security-based swap dealer:
(i) Before the contribution resulting in the prohibition was made, adopted and implemented policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of this section;
(ii) Prior to or at the time the contribution which resulted in such prohibition was made, had no actual knowledge of the contribution; and
(iii) After learning of the contribution:
(A) Has taken all available steps to cause the contributor involved in making the contribution which resulted in such prohibition to obtain a return of the contribution; and
(B) Has taken such other remedial or preventive measures as may be appropriate under the circumstances;
(3) Whether, at the time of the contribution, the contributor was a covered associate or otherwise an employee of the security-based swap dealer, or was seeking such employment;
(4) The timing and amount of the contribution which resulted in the prohibition;
(5) The nature of the election (
e.g.,
federal, state or local); and
(6) The contributor's apparent intent or motive in making the contribution that resulted in the prohibition, as evidenced by the facts and circumstances surrounding the contribution.
(e)
Prohibitions inapplicable.
(1) The prohibitions under paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to a contribution made by a covered associate of the security-based swap dealer if:
(i) The security-based swap dealer discovered the contribution within 120 calendar days of the date of such contribution;
(ii) The contribution did not exceed $350; and
(iii) The covered associate obtained a return of the contribution within 60 calendar days of the date of discovery of the contribution by the security-based swap dealer.
(2) A security-based swap dealer that has more than 50 covered associates may not rely on paragraph (e)(1) of this section more than three times in any 12-month period, while a security-based swap dealer that has 50 or fewer covered associates may not rely on paragraph (e)(1) of this section more than twice in any 12-month period.
(3) A security-based swap dealer may not rely on paragraph (e)(1) of this section more than once for any covered associate, regardless of the time between contributions.
[81 FR 30144, May 13, 2016]
§ 240.15Fi-1
Definitions.
For the purposes of §§ 240.15Fi-1 through 240.15Fi-5:
(a) The term
bilateral portfolio compression exercise
means an exercise by which two security-based swap counterparties wholly terminate or change the notional value of some or all of the security-based swaps submitted by the counterparties for inclusion in the portfolio compression exercise and, depending on the methodology employed, replace the terminated security-based swaps with other security-based swaps whose combined notional value (or some other measure of risk) is less than the combined notional value (or some other measure of risk) of the terminated security-based swaps in the exercise.
(b) The term
business day
means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
(c) Solely for purposes of § 240.15Fi-2, the term
clearing agency
means a clearing agency as defined in section 3(a)(23) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)) that is registered pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) and provides central counterparty services for security-based swap transactions.
(d) The term
clearing transaction
means a security-based swap that has a clearing agency as a direct counterparty.
(e) The term
day of execution
means the calendar day of the counterparty to the security-based swap transaction that ends the latest, provided that if a security-based swap transaction is:
(1) Entered into after 4:00 p.m. in the place of a counterparty; or
(2) Entered into on a day that is not a business day in the place of a counterparty, then such security-based swap transaction shall be deemed to have been entered into by that counterparty on the immediately succeeding business day of that counterparty, and the day of execution shall be determined with reference to such business day.
(f) The term
execution
means the point at which the counterparties become irrevocably bound to a transaction under applicable law.
(g) The term
financial counterparty
means a counterparty that is not a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant and that is one of the following:
(1) A swap dealer;
(2) A major swap participant;
(3) A commodity pool as defined in section 1a(10) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(10));
(4) A private fund as defined in section 202(a)(29) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a));
(5) An employee benefit plan as defined in paragraphs (3) and (32) of section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002); and
(6) A person predominantly engaged in activities that are in the business of banking, or in activities that are financial in nature, as defined in section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843k).
(h) The term
fully offsetting security-based swaps
means security-based swaps of equivalent terms where no net cash flow would be owed to either counterparty after the offset of payment obligations thereunder.
(i) The term
material terms
means each term that is required to be reported to a registered security-based swap data repository or the Commission pursuant to § 242.901 of this chapter; provided, however, that such definition does not include any term that is not relevant to the ongoing rights and obligations of the parties and the valuation of the security-based swap.
(j) The term
multilateral portfolio compression exercise
means an exercise by which multiple security-based swap counterparties wholly terminate or change the notional value of some or all of the security-based swaps submitted by the counterparties for inclusion in the portfolio compression exercise and, depending on the methodology employed, replace the terminated security-based swaps with other security-based swaps whose combined notional value (or some other measure of risk) is less than the combined notional value (or some other measure of risk) of the terminated security-based swaps in the exercise.
(k) The term
national securities exchange
means an exchange as defined in
section 3(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1)) that is registered pursuant to section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f).
(l) The term
portfolio reconciliation
means any process by which the counterparties to one or more security-based swaps:
(1) Exchange the material terms of all security-based swaps in the security-based swap portfolio between the counterparties;
(2) Exchange each counterparty's valuation of each security-based swap in the security-based swap portfolio between the counterparties as of the close of business on the immediately preceding business day; and
(3) Resolve any discrepancy in valuations or material terms.
(m) The term
prudential regulator
has the meaning given to the term in section 3(a)(74) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(74)) and includes the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Farm Credit Association, and the Federal Housing Finance Agency, as applicable to the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.
(n) The term
security-based swap execution facility
means a security-based swap execution facility as defined in section 3(a)(77) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(77)) that is registered pursuant to section 3D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c-4).
(o) The term
security-based swap portfolio
means all security-based swaps currently in effect between a particular security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant and a particular counterparty.
(p) The term
trade acknowledgment
means a written or electronic record of a security-based swap transaction sent by one counterparty of the security-based swap transaction to the other.
(q) The term
valuation
means the current market value or net present value of a security-based swap.
(r) The term
verification
means the process by which a trade acknowledgment has been manually, electronically, or by some other legally equivalent means, signed by the receiving counterparty.
[85 FR 6412, Feb. 4, 2020]
§ 240.15Fi-2
Acknowledgment and verification of security-based swap transactions.
(a)
Trade acknowledgment requirement.
In any transaction in which a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant purchases from or sells to any counterparty a security-based swap, a trade acknowledgment must be provided by:
(1) The security-based swap dealer, if the transaction is between a security-based swap dealer and a major security-based swap participant;
(2) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, if only one counterparty in the transaction is a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant; or
(3) The counterparty that the counterparties have agreed will provide the trade acknowledgment in any transaction other than one described by paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.
(b)
Prescribed time.
Any trade acknowledgment required by paragraph (a) of this section must be provided promptly, but in any event by the end of the first business day following the day of execution.
(c)
Form and content of trade acknowledgment.
Any trade acknowledgment required by paragraph (a) of this section must be provided through electronic means that provide reasonable assurance of delivery and a record of transmittal, and must disclose all the terms of the security-based swap transaction.
(d)
Trade verification.
(1) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to obtain prompt verification of the terms of a trade acknowledgment provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must promptly verify the accuracy of, or dispute with its counterparty, the
terms of a trade acknowledgment it receives pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(e)
Exception for clearing transactions.
A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is excepted from the requirements of this section with respect to any clearing transaction.
(f) Exception for transactions executed on a security-based swap execution facility or national securities exchange or accepted for clearing by a clearing agency.
(1) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is excepted from the requirements of this subsection with respect to any security-based swap transaction executed on a security-based swap execution facility or national securities exchange, provided that the rules, procedures or processes of the security-based swap execution facility or national securities exchange provide for the acknowledgment and verification of all terms of the security-based swap transaction no later than the time required by paragraphs (b) and (d)(2) of this section.
(2) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is excepted from the requirements of this subsection with respect to any security-based swap transaction that is submitted for clearing to a clearing agency, provided that:
(i) The security-based swap transaction is submitted for clearing as soon as technologically practicable, but in any event no later than the time established for providing a trade acknowledgment under paragraph (b) of this section; and
(ii) The rules, procedures or processes of the clearing agency provide for the acknowledgment and verification of all terms of the security-based swap transaction prior to or at the same time that the security-based swap transaction is accepted for clearing.
(3) If a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant receives notice that a security-based swap transaction has not been acknowledged and verified pursuant to the rules, procedures or processes of a security-based swap execution facility or a national securities exchange, or accepted for clearing by a clearing agency, the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall comply with the requirements of this section with respect to such security-based swap transaction as if such security-based swap transaction were executed at the time the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant receives such notice.
(g)
Exemption from § 240.10b-10.
A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant that is also a broker or dealer, is purchasing from or selling to any counterparty, and that complies with paragraph (a) or (d)(2) of this section with respect to the security-based swap transaction, is exempt from the requirements of § 240.10b-10 with respect to the security-based swap transaction.
[81 FR 39844, June 17, 2016]
§ 240.15fi-3
Security-based swap portfolio reconciliation.
(a)
Security-based swaps with security-based swap dealers or major security-based swap participants.
Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant shall engage in portfolio reconciliation as follows for all security-based swaps in which its counterparty is also a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.
(1) Each security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall agree in writing with each of its counterparties on the terms of the portfolio reconciliation including, if applicable, agreement on the selection of any third party service provider who may be performing the portfolio reconciliation.
(2) The portfolio reconciliation may be performed on a bilateral basis by the counterparties or by a third party selected by the counterparties in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3) The portfolio reconciliation shall be performed no less frequently than:
(i) Once each business day for each security-based swap portfolio that includes 500 or more security-based swaps;
(ii) Once each week for each security-based swap portfolio that includes
more than 50 but fewer than 500 security-based swaps on any business day during the week; and
(iii) Once each calendar quarter for each security-based swap portfolio that includes no more than 50 security-based swaps at any time during the calendar quarter.
(4) Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant shall resolve immediately any discrepancy in a material term of a security-based swap identified as part of a portfolio reconciliation or otherwise.
(5) Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures reasonably designed to resolve any discrepancy in a valuation identified as part of a portfolio reconciliation or otherwise as soon as possible, but in any event within five business days after the date on which the discrepancy is first identified, provided that the security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant establishes, maintains, and follows written policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify how the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant will comply with any variation margin requirements under section 15F(e) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(e)) and § 240.18a-3 (and any subsequent regulations promulgated pursuant to section 15F(e) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(e))) pending resolution of the discrepancy in valuation. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(5), a difference between the lower valuation and the higher valuation of less than 10 percent of the higher valuation need not be deemed a discrepancy.
(b)
Security-based swaps with entities other than security-based swap dealers or major security-based swap participants.
Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that it engages in portfolio reconciliation for all security-based swaps in which its counterparty is neither a security-based swap dealer nor a major security-based swap participant as follows.
(1) Each security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall agree in writing with each of its counterparties on the terms of the portfolio reconciliation including, if applicable, agreement on the selection of any third party service provider who may be performing the reconciliation.
(2) The portfolio reconciliation may be performed on a bilateral basis by the counterparties or by one or more third parties selected by the counterparties in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) The portfolio reconciliation will be required to be performed no less frequently than:
(i) Once each calendar quarter for each security-based swap portfolio that includes more than 100 security-based swaps at any time during the calendar quarter; and
(ii) Once annually for each security-based swap portfolio that includes no more than 100 security-based swaps at any time during the calendar year.
(4) Each security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written procedures reasonably designed to resolve any discrepancies in the valuation or material terms of each security-based swap identified as part of a portfolio reconciliation or otherwise with a counterparty that is neither a security-based swap dealer nor major security-based swap participant in a timely fashion. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(4), a difference between the lower valuation and the higher valuation of less than 10 percent of the higher valuation need not be deemed a discrepancy.
(c)
Reporting of security-based swap valuation disputes
—(1)
Notice requirement.
Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant shall promptly notify the Commission, electronically through the Commission's EDGAR system, in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in § 232.11 of this chapter (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T), and in accordance with the requirements of 17 CFR part 232 (Regulation S-T), and any applicable prudential regulator, in a form and manner acceptable to such applicable prudential regulator, of any security-based swap valuation dispute in excess of $20,000,000 (or its equivalent in any other currency), at either
the transaction or portfolio level, if not resolved within:
(i) Three business days, if the dispute is with a counterparty that is a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant; or
(ii) Five business days, if the dispute is with a counterparty that is not a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.
(2)
Amendments.
Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant shall notify the Commission, electronically through the Commission's EDGAR system, in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in Rule 11 of Regulation S-T, and in accordance with the requirements of Regulation S-T, and any applicable prudential regulator, in a form and manner acceptable to such applicable prudential regulator, if the amount of any security-based swap valuation dispute that was the subject of a previous notice made pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section increases or decreases by more than $20,000,000 (or its equivalent in any other currency), at either the transaction or portfolio level. Such amended notice shall be provided to the Commission and any applicable prudential regulator no later than the last business day of the calendar month in which the applicable security-based swap valuation dispute increases or decreases by the applicable dispute amount.
(d)
Reconciliation of cleared security-based swaps.
Nothing in this section shall apply to any security-based swap that is, directly or indirectly, submitted to and cleared by a clearing agency registered pursuant to section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) or by a clearing agency that the Commission has exempted from registration by rule or order pursuant to section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1).
[85 FR 6413, Feb. 4, 2020. Redesignated and amended at 90 FR 7365, Jan. 21, 2025]
§ 240.15Fi-4
Security-based swap portfolio compression.
(a)
Portfolio compression with security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants
—(1)
Bilateral offset.
Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures for terminating each fully offsetting security-based swap between a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant and another security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant in a timely fashion, when appropriate.
(2)
Bilateral compression.
Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures for periodically engaging in bilateral portfolio compression exercises, when appropriate, with each counterparty that is also a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant. Such policies and procedures shall address, among other things, the evaluation of bilateral portfolio compression exercises that are initiated, offered, or sponsored by any third party.
(3)
Multilateral compression.
Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures for periodically engaging in multilateral portfolio compression exercises, when appropriate, with each counterparty that is also a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant. Such policies and procedures shall address, among other things, the evaluation of multilateral portfolio compression exercises that are initiated, offered, or sponsored by any third party.
(b)
Portfolio compression with counterparties other than security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures for periodically terminating fully offsetting security-based swaps and for engaging in bilateral or multilateral portfolio compression exercises with respect to security-based swaps in which its counterparty is an entity other than a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, when appropriate and to the extent requested by any such counterparty.
(c)
Portfolio compression of cleared security-based swaps.
Nothing in this section shall apply to any security-based swap that is, directly or indirectly, submitted to and cleared by a clearing agency registered pursuant to section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) or by a clearing agency that the Commission has exempted from registration by rule or order pursuant to section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1).
[85 FR 6414, Feb. 4, 2020, as amended at 90 FR 7366, Jan. 21, 2025]
§ 240.15Fi-5
Security-based swap trading relationship documentation.
(a)
Scope
—(1)
Applicability.
The requirements of this section shall not apply to:
(i) Security-based swaps executed prior to the date on which a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is required to be in compliance with this section;
(ii) Any security-based swap that is, directly or indirectly, submitted to and cleared by a clearing agency registered pursuant to section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) or by a clearing agency that the Commission has exempted from registration by rule or order pursuant to section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1); and
(iii) Security-based swaps executed anonymously on a national securities exchange or a security-based swap execution facility,
Provided that:
(A) Such security-based swaps are intended to be cleared and are actually submitted for clearing to a clearing agency;
(B) All terms of such security-based swaps conform to the rules of the clearing agency; and
(C) Upon acceptance of such security-based swap by the clearing agency:
(
1
) The original security-based swap is extinguished;
(
2
) The original security-based swap is replaced by equal and opposite security-based swaps with the clearing agency; and
(
3
) All terms of the security-based swap shall conform to the product specifications of the cleared security-based swap established under the clearing agency's rules; and
Provided further,
That if a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant receives notice that a security-based swap transaction has not been accepted for clearing by a clearing agency, the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall be required to comply with the requirements of this section in all respects promptly after receipt of such notice.
(2)
Policies and procedures.
Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant executes written security-based swap trading relationship documentation with its counterparty that complies with the requirements of this section. The policies and procedures shall be approved in writing by a senior officer of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, and a record of the approval shall be retained. Other than trade acknowledgements and verifications of security-based swap transactions under § 240.15Fi-2, the security-based swap trading relationship documentation shall be executed prior to, or contemporaneously with, executing a security-based swap with any counterparty.
(b)
Security-based swap trading relationship documentation.
(1) The security-based swap trading relationship documentation shall be in writing and shall include all terms governing the trading relationship between the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant and its counterparty, including, without limitation, terms addressing payment obligations, netting of payments, events of default or other termination events, calculation and netting of obligations upon termination, transfer of rights and obligations, governing law, valuation, and dispute resolution.
(2) The security-based swap trading relationship documentation shall include all trade acknowledgements and verifications of security-based swap transactions under § 240.15Fi-2.
(3) The security-based swap trading relationship documentation shall include credit support arrangements, which shall contain, in accordance with applicable requirements under
Commission regulations or regulations adopted by prudential regulators and without limitation, the following:
(i) Initial and variation margin requirements, if any;
(ii) Types of assets that may be used as margin and asset valuation haircuts, if any;
(iii) Investment and re-hypothecation terms for assets used as margin for uncleared security-based swaps, if any; and
(iv) Custodial arrangements for margin assets, including whether margin assets are to be segregated with an independent third party, in accordance with the notice requirement in section 3E(f)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-5(f)(1)(A)) (and either § 240.15c3-3(p)(4)(i) or § 240.18a-4(d)(1) thereunder, as applicable), if any.
(4)(i) The security-based swap trading relationship documentation between security-based swap dealers, between major security-based swap participants, between a security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant, between a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant and a financial counterparty, and, if requested by any other counterparty, between a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant and such counterparty, shall include written documentation in which the parties agree on the process, which may include any agreed upon methods, procedures, rules, and inputs, for determining the value of each security-based swap at any time from execution to the termination, maturity, or expiration of such security-based swap for the purposes of complying with the margin requirements under section 15F(e) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(e)) and § 240.18a-3 (and any subsequent regulations promulgated pursuant to section 15F(e) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(e))), and the risk management requirements under section 15F(j) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(j)) of the Act and § 240.15Fh-3(h)(2)(iii)(I) (and any subsequent regulations promulgated pursuant to section 15F(j) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(j))). To the maximum extent practicable, the valuation of each security-based swap shall be based on recently executed transactions, valuations provided by independent third parties, or other objective criteria.
(ii) Such documentation shall include either:
(A) Alternative methods for determining the value of the security-based swap for the purposes of complying with this paragraph (b)(4) in the event of the unavailability or other failure of any input required to value the security-based swap for such purposes; or
(B) A valuation dispute resolution process by which the value of the security-based swap shall be determined for the purposes of complying with this paragraph (b)(4).
(iii) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is not required to disclose to the counterparty confidential, proprietary information about any model it may use to value a security-based swap.
(iv) The parties may agree on changes or procedures for modifying or amending the documentation at any time.
(5) The security-based swap trading relationship documentation of a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall include the following:
(i) A statement of whether the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is an insured depository institution (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813) or a financial company (as defined in section 201(a)(11) of the Dodd-Frank Act, 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(11));
(ii) A statement of whether the counterparty is an insured depository institution or financial company;
(iii) A statement that in the event either the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant or its counterparty becomes a covered financial company (as defined in section 201(a)(8) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(8)) or is an insured depository institution for which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) has been appointed as a receiver (the “covered party”), certain limitations under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act or the Federal Deposit Insurance Act may apply to the right of the non-covered party to terminate, liquidate, or net any security-
based swap by reason of the appointment of the FDIC as receiver, notwithstanding the agreement of the parties in the security-based swap trading relationship documentation, and that the FDIC may have certain rights to transfer security-based swaps of the covered party under section 210(c)(9)(A) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(9)(A), or 12 U.S.C. 1821(e)(9)(A); and
(iv) An agreement between the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant and its counterparty to provide notice if either it or its counterparty becomes or ceases to be an insured depository institution or a financial company.
(6) The security-based swap trading relationship documentation of each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant shall contain a notice that, upon acceptance of a security-based swap by a clearing agency:
(i) The original security-based swap is extinguished;
(ii) The original security-based swap is replaced by equal and opposite security-based swaps with the clearing agency; and
(iii) All terms of the security-based swap shall conform to the product specifications of the cleared security-based swap established under the clearing agency's rules.
(c)
Audit of security-based swap trading relationship documentation.
Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant shall have an independent auditor conduct periodic audits sufficient to identify any material weakness in its documentation policies and procedures required by this section. A record of the results of each audit shall be retained.
[85 FR 6414, Feb. 4, 2020]
§ 240.15fk-1
Designation of chief compliance officer for security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
(a)
In general.
A security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant shall designate an individual to serve as a chief compliance officer on its registration form.
(b)
Duties.
The chief compliance officer shall:
(1) Report directly to the board of directors or to the senior officer of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant; and
(2) Take reasonable steps to ensure that the registrant establishes, maintains and reviews written policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder relating to its business as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant by:
(i) Reviewing the compliance of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant with respect to the security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant requirements described in section 15F of the Act, and the rules and regulations thereunder, where the review shall involve preparing the registrant's annual assessment of its written policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with section 15F of the Act, and the rules and regulations thereunder, by the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant;
(ii) Taking reasonable steps to ensure that the registrant establishes, maintains and reviews policies and procedures reasonably designed to remediate non-compliance issues identified by the chief compliance officer through any means, including any:
(A) Compliance office review;
(B) Look-back;
(C) Internal or external audit finding;
(D) Self-reporting to the Commission and other appropriate authorities; or
(E) Complaint that can be validated; and
(iii) Taking reasonable steps to ensure that the registrant establishes and follows procedures reasonably designed for the handling, management response, remediation, retesting, and resolution of non-compliance issues;
(3) In consultation with the board of directors or the senior officer of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, take reasonable steps to resolve any material conflicts of interest that may arise; and
(4) Administer each policy and procedure that is required to be established pursuant to section 15F of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.
(c)
Annual reports
—(1)
In general.
The chief compliance officer shall annually prepare and sign a compliance report that contains a description of the written policies and procedures of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant described in paragraph (b) of this section (including the code of ethics and conflict of interest policies).
(2)
Requirements.
(i) Each compliance report shall also contain, at a minimum, a description of:
(A) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant's assessment of the effectiveness of its policies and procedures relating to its business as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based participant;
(B) Any material changes to the registrant's policies and procedures since the date of the preceding compliance report;
(C) Any areas for improvement, and recommended potential or prospective changes or improvements to its compliance program and resources devoted to compliance;
(D) Any material non-compliance matters identified; and
(E) The financial, managerial, operational, and staffing resources set aside for compliance with the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder relating to its business as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, including any material deficiencies in such resources.
(ii) A compliance report under paragraph (c)(1) of this section also shall:
(A) Be submitted to the Commission electronically through the EDGAR system as an Interactive Data File in accordance with 17 CFR 232.405 (Rule 405 of Regulation S-T) within 30 days following the deadline for filing the security-based swap dealer's or major security-based swap participant's annual financial report with the Commission pursuant to section 15F of the Act and rules and regulations thereunder;
(B) Be submitted to the board of directors and audit committee (or equivalent bodies) and the senior officer of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant prior to submission to the Commission;
(C) Be discussed in one or more meetings conducted by the senior officer with the chief compliance officer(s) in the preceding 12 months, the subject of which addresses the obligations in this section; and
(D) Include a certification by the chief compliance officer or senior officer that, to the best of his or her knowledge and reasonable belief and under penalty of law, the information contained in the compliance report is accurate and complete in all material respects.
(iii)
Extensions of time.
A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant may request from the Commission an extension of time to submit its compliance report, provided the registrant's failure to timely submit the report could not be eliminated by the registrant without unreasonable effort or expense. Extensions of the deadline will be granted at the discretion of the Commission.
(iv)
Incorporation by reference.
A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant may incorporate by reference sections of a compliance report that have been submitted within the current or immediately preceding reporting period to the Commission.
(v)
Amendments.
A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall promptly submit an amended compliance report if material errors or omissions in the report are identified. An amendment must contain the certification required under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(D) of this section.
(d)
Compensation and removal.
The compensation and removal of the chief compliance officer shall require the approval of a majority of the board of directors of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.
(e)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, references to:
(1) The
board
or
board of directors
shall include a body performing a function similar to the board of directors.
(2) The
senior officer
shall include the chief executive officer or other equivalent officer.
(3)
Complaint that can be validated
shall include any written complaint by a counterparty involving the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant or associated person of a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant that can be supported upon reasonable investigation.
(4) A
material non-compliance matter
means any non-compliance matter about which the board of directors of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant would reasonably need to know to oversee the compliance of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, and that involves, without limitation:
(i) A violation of the federal securities laws relating to its business as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant by the firm or its officers, directors, employees or agents;
(ii) A violation of the policies and procedures relating to its business as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant by the firm or its officers, directors, employees or agents; or
(iii) A weakness in the design or implementation of the policies and procedures relating to its business as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.
[81 FR 30144, May 13, 2016. Redesignated and amended at 90 FR 7366, Jan. 21, 2025]
§ 240.15Ga-1
Repurchases and replacements relating to asset-backed securities.
(a)
General.
With respect to any asset-backed security (as that term is defined in Section 3(a)(79) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79)) for which the underlying transaction agreements contain a covenant to repurchase or replace an underlying asset for breach of a representation or warranty, a securitizer (as that term is defined in Section 15G(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) shall disclose fulfilled and unfulfilled repurchase requests across all trusts by providing the information required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section concerning all assets securitized by the securitizer that were the subject of a demand to repurchase or replace for breach of the representations and warranties concerning the pool assets for all asset-backed securities held by non-affiliates of the securitizer during the reporting period.
ER26JA11.005
(1) The table shall:
(i) Disclose the asset class and group the issuing entities by asset class (column (a)).
(ii) Disclose the name of the issuing entity (as that term is defined in Item 1101(f) of Regulation AB (17 CFR
229.1101(f)) of the asset-backed securities. List the issuing entities in order of the date of formation (column (a)).

# Instruction to paragraph (
a

# )(1)(
ii

# ):
Include all issuing entities with outstanding asset-backed securities during the reporting period.
(iii) For each named issuing entity, indicate by check mark whether the transaction was registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (column (b)) and disclose the CIK number of the issuing entity (column (a)).
(iv) Disclose the name of the originator of the underlying assets (column (c)).

# Instruction to paragraph (
a

# )(1)(
iv

# ):
Include all originators that originated assets in the asset pool for each issuing entity.
(v) Disclose the number, outstanding principal balance and percentage by principal balance of assets at the time of securitization (columns (d) through (f)).
(vi) Disclose the number, outstanding principal balance and percentage by principal balance of assets that were subject of a demand to repurchase or replace for breach of representations and warranties (columns (g) through (i)).
(vii) Disclose the number, outstanding principal balance and percentage by principal balance of assets that were repurchased or replaced for breach of representations and warranties (columns (j) through (l)).
(viii) Disclose the number, outstanding principal balance and percentage by principal balance of assets that are pending repurchase or replacement for breach of representations and warranties due to the expiration of a cure period (columns (m) through (o)).
(ix) Disclose the number, outstanding principal balance and percentage by principal balance of assets that are pending repurchase or replacement for breach of representations and warranties because the demand is currently in dispute (columns (p) through (r)).
(x) Disclose the number, outstanding principal balance and percentage by principal balance of assets that were not repurchased or replaced because the demand was withdrawn (columns (s) through (u)).
(xi) Disclose the number, outstanding principal balance and percentage by principal balance of assets that were not repurchased or replaced because the demand was rejected (columns (v) through (x)).

# Instruction to paragraphs (
a

# )(1)(
vi

# ) through (
xi

# ):
For purposes of these (a)(1)(vi) through (xi) the outstanding principal balance shall be the principal balance as of the reporting period end date and the percentage by principal balance shall be the outstanding principal balance of an asset divided by the outstanding principal balance of the asset pool as of the reporting period end date.
(xii) Provide totals by asset class, issuing entity and for all issuing entities for columns that require number of assets and principal amounts (columns (d), (e), (g), (h), (j), (k), (m), (n) (p), (q), (s), (t), (v) and (w)).

# Instruction 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(1):
The table should include any activity during the reporting period, including activity related to assets subject to demands made prior to the beginning of the reporting period.

# Instruction 2 to paragraph (
a

# )(1):
Indicate by footnote and provide narrative disclosure in order to further explain the information presented in the table, as appropriate.
(2) If any of the information required by this paragraph (a) is unknown and not available to the securitizer without unreasonable effort or expense, such information may be omitted, provided the securitizer provides the information it possesses or can acquire without unreasonable effort or expense, and the securitizer includes a statement showing that unreasonable effort or expense would be involved in obtaining the omitted information. Further, if a securitizer requested and was unable to obtain all information with respect to investor demands upon a trustee that occurred prior to July 22, 2010, so state by footnote. In this case, also state that the disclosures do not contain investor demands upon a trustee made prior to July 22, 2010.
(b) In the case of multiple affiliated securitizers for a single asset-backed securities transaction, if one securitizer has filed all the disclosures required in order to meet the obligations under paragraph (a) of this section, other affiliated securitizers shall not be required to separately provide
and file the same disclosures related to the same asset-backed security.
(c) The disclosures in paragraph (a) of this section shall be provided by a securitizer:
(1) For the three year period ended December 31, 2011, by any securitizer that issued an asset-backed security during the period, or organized and initiated an asset-backed securities transaction during the period, by securitizing an asset, either directly or indirectly, including through an affiliate, in each case, if the underlying transaction agreements provide a covenant to repurchase or replace an underlying asset for breach of a representation or warranty and the securitizer has asset-backed securities, containing such a covenant, outstanding and held by non-affiliates as of the end of the three year period. If a securitizer has no activity to report, it shall indicate by checking the appropriate box on Form ABS-15G (17 CFR 249.1400). The requirement of this paragraph (c)(1) applies to all issuances of asset-backed securities whether or not publicly registered under the provisions of the Securities Act of 1933. The disclosures required by this paragraph (c)(1) shall be filed no later than February 14, 2012.

# Instruction to paragraph (
c

# )(1):
For demands made prior to January 1, 2009, the disclosure should include any related activity subsequent to January 1, 2009 associated with such demand.
(2) For each calendar quarter, by any securitizer that issued an asset-backed security during the period, or organized and initiated an asset-backed securities transaction by securitizing an asset, either directly or indirectly, including through an affiliate, or had outstanding asset-backed securities held by non-affiliates during the period, in each case, if the underlying transaction agreements provide a covenant to repurchase or replace an underlying asset for breach of a representation or warranty. The disclosures required by this paragraph (c)(2) shall be filed no later than 45 calendar days after the end of such calendar quarter:
(i) Except that, a securitizer may suspend its duty to provide periodic quarterly disclosures if no activity occurred during the initial filing period in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or during a calendar quarter that is required to be reported under paragraph (a) of this section. A securitizer shall indicate that it has no activity to report by checking the appropriate box on Form ABS-15G (17 CFR 249.1400). Thereafter, a periodic quarterly report required by this paragraph (c)(2) will only be required if a change in the demand, repurchase or replacement activity occurs that is required to be reported under paragraph (a) of this section during a calendar quarter; and
(ii) Except that, annually, any securitizer that has suspended its duty to provide quarterly disclosures pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section must confirm that no activity occurred during the previous calendar year by checking the appropriate box on Form ABS-15G (17 CFR 249.1400). The confirmation required by this paragraph (c)(2)(ii) shall be filed no later than 45 days after each calendar year.
(3) Except that, if a securitizer has no asset-backed securities outstanding held by non-affiliates, the duty under paragraph (c)(2) of this section to file periodically the disclosures required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be terminated immediately upon filing a notice on Form ABS-15G (17 CFR 249.1400).
[76 FR 4511, Jan. 26, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 54375, Sept. 1, 2011; 79 FR 57344, Sept. 24, 2014]
§ 240.15Ga-2
Findings and conclusions of third-party due diligence reports.
(a) The issuer or underwriter of an offering of any asset-backed security (as that term is defined in Section 3(a)(79) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79))) that is to be rated by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization must furnish Form ABS-15G (§ 249.1400 of this chapter) to the Commission containing the findings and conclusions of any third-party due diligence report obtained by the issuer or underwriter at least five business days prior to the first sale in the offering.
Instruction to paragraph (a): Disclosure of the findings and conclusions includes, but is not limited to, disclosure of the criteria against which the loans were evaluated, and how the evaluated loans compared to those criteria along with the basis for including any loans
not meeting those criteria. This disclosure is only required for an initial rating and does not need to be furnished in connection with any subsequent rating actions. For purposes of this rule, the date of first sale is the date on which the first investor is irrevocably contractually committed to invest, which, depending on the terms and conditions of the contract, could be the date on which the issuer receives the investor's subscription agreement or check.
(b) In the case where the issuer and one or more underwriters have obtained the same third-party due diligence report related to a particular asset-backed securities transaction, if any one such party has furnished all the disclosures required in order to meet the obligations under paragraph (a) of this section, the other party or parties are not required to separately furnish the same disclosures related to such third-party due diligence report.
(c) If the disclosure required by this rule has been made in the prospectus (including an attribution to the third-party that provided the third-party due diligence report), the issuer or underwriter may refer to that section of the prospectus in Form ABS-15G rather than providing the findings and conclusions itself directly in Form ABS-15G.
(d) For purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section,
issuer
is defined in Rule 17g-10(d)(2) (§ 240.17g-10(d)(2) of this chapter) and
third-party due diligence report
means any report containing findings and conclusions of any
due diligence services
as defined in Rule 17g-10(d)(1) (§ 240.17g-10(d)(1) of this chapter) performed by a third party.
(e) The requirements of this rule would not apply to an offering of an asset-backed security if certain conditions are met, including:
(1) The offering is not required to be, and is not, registered under the Securities Act of 1933;
(2) The issuer of the rated security is not a U.S. person (as defined in § 230.902(k)); and
(3) All offers and sales of the security by any issuer, sponsor, or underwriter linked to the security will occur outside the United States (as that phrase is used in §§ 230.901 through 230.905 (Regulation S)).
(f) The requirements of this rule would not apply to an offering of an asset-backed security if certain conditions are met, including:
(1) The issuer of the rated security is a municipal issuer; and
(2) The offering is not required to be, and is not, registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
(g) For purposes of paragraph (f) of this section, a municipal issuer is an
issuer
(as that term is defined in Rule 17g-10(d)(2) (§ 240.17g-10(d)(2) of this chapter)) that is any State or Territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, any political subdivision of any State, Territory or the District of Columbia, or any public instrumentality of one or more States, Territories or the District of Columbia.
(h) An offering of an asset-backed security that is exempted from the requirements of this rule pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section remains subject to the requirements of Section 15E(s)(4)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(s)(4)(A)), which requires that the issuer or underwriter of any asset-backed security shall make publicly available the findings and conclusions of any third-party due diligence report obtained by the issuer or underwriter.
[79 FR 55261, Sept. 15, 2014; 79 FR 61576, Oct. 14, 2014, as amended at 84 84 FR 40258, Sept. 13, 2019]

# Reports of Directors, Officers, and Principal Shareholders
§ 240.16a-1
Definition of terms.
Terms defined in this rule shall apply solely to section 16 of the Act and the rules thereunder. These terms shall not be limited to section 16(a) of the Act but also shall apply to all other subsections under section 16 of the Act.
(a) The term
beneficial owner
shall have the following applications:
(1) Solely for purposes of determining whether a person is a beneficial owner of more than ten percent of any class of equity securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act, the term “beneficial owner” shall mean any person who is deemed a beneficial owner pursuant to section 13(d) of the Act and the rules thereunder;
provided, however,
that the following institutions or persons shall not be deemed the beneficial
owner of securities of such class held for the benefit of third parties or in customer or fiduciary accounts in the ordinary course of business (or in the case of an employee benefit plan specified in paragraph (a)(1)(vi) of this section, of securities of such class allocated to plan participants where participants have voting power) as long as such shares are acquired by such institutions or persons without the purpose or effect of changing or influencing control of the issuer or engaging in any arrangement subject to Rule 13d-3(b) (§ 240.13d-3(b)):
(i) A broker or dealer registered under section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o);
(ii) A bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c);
(iii) An insurance company as defined in section 3(a)(19) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c);
(iv) An investment company registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8);
(v) Any person registered as an investment adviser under Section 203 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-3) or under the laws of any state;
(vi) An employee benefit plan as defined in Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
(“ERISA”) that is subject to the provisions of ERISA, or any such plan that is not subject to ERISA that is maintained primarily for the benefit of the employees of a state or local government or instrumentality, or an endowment fund;
(vii) A parent holding company or control person, provided the aggregate amount held directly by the parent or control person, and directly and indirectly by their subsidiaries or affiliates that are not persons specified in § 240.16a-1 (a)(1)(i) through (x), does not exceed one percent of the securities of the subject class;
(viii) A savings association as defined in Section 3(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813);
(ix) A church plan that is excluded from the definition of an investment company under section 3(c)(14) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-30;
(x) A non-U.S. institution that is the functional equivalent of any of the institutions listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (ix) of this section, so long as the non-U.S. institution is subject to a regulatory scheme that is substantially comparable to the regulatory scheme applicable to the equivalent U.S. institution and the non-U.S. institution is eligible to file a Schedule 13G pursuant to § 240.13d-1(b)(1)(ii)(J); and
(xi) A group, provided that all the members are persons specified in § 240.16a-1 (a)(1)(i) through (x).

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
Pursuant to this section, a person deemed a beneficial owner of more than ten percent of any class of equity securities registered under section 12 of the Act would file a Form 3 (§ 249.103), but the securities holdings disclosed on Form 3, and changes in beneficial ownership reported on subsequent Forms 4 (§ 249.104) or 5 (§ 249.105), would be determined by the definition of “beneficial owner” in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) Other than for purposes of determining whether a person is a beneficial owner of more than ten percent of any class of equity securities registered under Section 12 of the Act, the term
beneficial owner
shall mean any person who, directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has or shares a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in the equity securities, subject to the following:
(i) The term
pecuniary interest
in any class of equity securities shall mean the opportunity, directly or indirectly, to profit or share in any profit derived from a transaction in the subject securities.
(ii) The term
indirect pecuniary interest
in any class of equity securities shall include, but not be limited to:
(A) Securities held by members of a person's immediate family sharing the same household; provided, however, that the presumption of such beneficial ownership may be rebutted;
see
also § 240.16a-1(a)(4);
(B) A general partner's proportionate interest in the portfolio securities held by a general or limited partnership. The general partner's proportionate interest, as evidenced by the partnership
agreement in effect at the time of the transaction and the partnership's most recent financial statements, shall be the greater of:
(
1
) The general partner's share of the partnership's profits, including profits attributed to any limited partnership interests held by the general partner and any other interests in profits that arise from the purchase and sale of the partnership's portfolio securities; or
(
2
) The general partner's share of the partnership capital account, including the share attributable to any limited partnership interest held by the general partner.
(C) A performance-related fee, other than an asset-based fee, received by any broker, dealer, bank, insurance company, investment company, investment adviser, investment manager, trustee or person or entity performing a similar function;
provided, however,
that no pecuniary interest shall be present where:
(
1
) The performance-related fee, regardless of when payable, is calculated based upon net capital gains and/or net capital appreciation generated from the portfolio or from the fiduciary's overall performance over a period of one year or more; and
(
2
) Equity securities of the issuer do not account for more than ten percent of the market value of the portfolio. A right to a nonperformance-related fee alone shall not represent a pecuniary interest in the securities;
(D) A person's right to dividends that is separated or separable from the underlying securities. Otherwise, a right to dividends alone shall not represent a pecuniary interest in the securities;
(E) A person's interest in securities held by a trust, as specified in § 240.16a-8(b); and
(F) A person's right to acquire equity securities through the exercise or conversion of any derivative security, whether or not presently exercisable.
(iii) A shareholder shall not be deemed to have a pecuniary interest in the portfolio securities held by a corporation or similar entity in which the person owns securities if the shareholder is not a controlling shareholder of the entity and does not have or share investment control over the entity's portfolio.
(3) Where more than one person subject to section 16 of the Act is deemed to be a beneficial owner of the same equity securities, all such persons must report as beneficial owners of the securities, either separately or jointly, as provided in § 240.16a-3(j). In such cases, the amount of short-swing profit recoverable shall not be increased above the amount recoverable if there were only one beneficial owner.
(4) Any person filing a statement pursuant to section 16(a) of the Act may state that the filing shall not be deemed an admission that such person is, for purposes of section 16 of the Act or otherwise, the beneficial owner of any equity securities covered by the statement.
(5) The following interests are deemed not to confer beneficial ownership for purposes of section 16 of the Act:
(i) Interests in portfolio securities held by any investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
); and
(ii) Interests in securities comprising part of a broad-based, publicly traded market basket or index of stocks, approved for trading by the appropriate federal governmental authority.
(b) The term
call equivalent position
shall mean a derivative security position that increases in value as the value of the underlying equity increases, including, but not limited to, a long convertible security, a long call option, and a short put option position.
(c) The term
derivative securities
shall mean any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege at a price related to an equity security, or similar securities with a value derived from the value of an equity security, but shall not include:
(1) Rights of a pledgee of securities to sell the pledged securities;
(2) Rights of all holders of a class of securities of an issuer to receive securities pro rata, or obligations to dispose of securities, as a result of a merger, exchange offer, or consolidation involving the issuer of the securities;
(3) Rights or obligations to surrender a security, or have a security withheld,
upon the receipt or exercise of a derivative security or the receipt or vesting of equity securities, in order to satisfy the exercise price or the tax withholding consequences of receipt, exercise or vesting;
(4) Interests in broad-based index options, broad-based index futures, and broad-based publicly traded market baskets of stocks approved for trading by the appropriate federal governmental authority;
(5) Interests or rights to participate in employee benefit plans of the issuer;
(6) Rights with an exercise or conversion privilege at a price that is not fixed; or
(7) Options granted to an underwriter in a registered public offering for the purpose of satisfying over-allotments in such offering.
(d) The term
equity security of such issuer
shall mean any equity security or derivative security relating to an issuer, whether or not issued by that issuer.
(e) The term
immediate family
shall mean any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, and shall include adoptive relationships.
(f) The term “officer” shall mean an issuer's president, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer (or, if there is no such accounting officer, the controller), any vice-president of the issuer in charge of a principal business unit, division or function (such as sales, administration or finance), any other officer who performs a policy-making function, or any other person who performs similar policy-making functions for the issuer. Officers of the issuer's parent(s) or subsidiaries shall be deemed officers of the issuer if they perform such policy-making functions for the issuer. In addition, when the issuer is a limited partnership, officers or employees of the general partner(s) who perform policy-making functions for the limited partnership are deemed officers of the limited partnership. When the issuer is a trust, officers or employees of the trustee(s) who perform policy-making functions for the trust are deemed officers of the trust.

# Note:
“Policy-making function” is not intended to include policy-making functions that are not significant. If pursuant to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.401(b)) the issuer identifies a person as an “executive officer,” it is presumed that the Board of Directors has made that judgment and that the persons so identified are the officers for purposes of Section 16 of the Act, as are such other persons enumerated in this paragraph (f) but not in Item 401(b).
(g) The term
portfolio securities
shall mean all securities owned by an entity, other than securities issued by the entity.
(h) The term
put equivalent position
shall mean a derivative security position that increases in value as the value of the underlying equity decreases, including, but not limited to, a long put option and a short call option position.
[56 FR 7265, Feb. 21, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 19927, May 1, 1991; 61 FR 30391, June 14, 1996; 63 FR 2868, Jan. 16, 1998; 73 FR 60093, Oct. 9, 2008; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 240.16a-2
Persons and transactions subject to section 16.
Any person who is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than ten percent of any class of equity securities (“ten percent beneficial owner”) registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
), any director or officer of the issuer of such securities, and any person specified in section 30(h) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(h)), including any person specified in § 240.16a-8, shall be subject to the provisions of section 16 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78p). The rules under section 16 of the Act apply to any class of equity securities of an issuer whether or not registered under section 12 of the Act. The rules under section 16 of the Act also apply to non-equity securities as provided by the Investment Company Act of 1940. With respect to transactions by persons subject to section 16 of the Act:
(a) A transaction(s) carried out by a director or officer in the six months prior to the director or officer becoming subject to section 16 of the Act shall be subject to section 16 of the Act and reported on the first required Form 4 only if the transaction(s) occurred within six months of the transaction
giving rise to the Form 4 filing obligation and the director or officer became subject to section 16 of the Act solely as a result of the issuer registering a class of equity securities pursuant to section 12 of the Act.
(b) A transaction(s) following the cessation of director or officer status shall be subject to section 16 of the Act only if:
(1) Executed within a period of less than six months of an opposite transaction subject to section 16(b) of the Act that occurred while that person was a director or officer; and
(2) Not otherwise exempted from section 16(b) of the Act pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
For purposes of this paragraph, an acquisition and a disposition each shall be an opposite transaction with respect to the other.
(c) The transaction that results in a person becoming a ten percent beneficial owner is not subject to section 16 of the Act unless the person otherwise is subject to section 16 of the Act. A ten percent beneficial owner not otherwise subject to section 16 of the Act must report only those transactions conducted while the beneficial owner of more than ten percent of a class of equity securities of the issuer registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act.
(d)(1) Transactions by a person or entity shall be exempt from the provisions of section 16 of the Act for the 12 months following appointment and qualification, to the extent such person or entity is acting as:
(i) Executor or administrator of the estate of a decedent;
(ii) Guardian or member of a committee for an incompetent;
(iii) Receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, assignee for the benefit of creditors, conservator, liquidating agent, or other similar person duly authorized by law to administer the estate or assets of another person; or
(iv) Fiduciary in a similar capacity.
(2) Transactions by such person or entity acting in a capacity specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section after the period specified in that paragraph shall be subject to section 16 of the Act only where the estate, trust or other entity is a beneficial owner of more than ten percent of any class of equity security registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act.
[56 FR 7265, Feb. 21, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 30392, June 14, 1996; 67 FR 43535, June 28, 2002; 76 FR 71877, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 240.16a-3
Reporting transactions and holdings.
(a) Initial statements of beneficial ownership of equity securities required by section 16(a) of the Act shall be filed on Form 3. Statements of changes in beneficial ownership required by that section shall be filed on Form 4. Annual statements shall be filed on Form 5. At the election of the reporting person, any transaction required to be reported on Form 5 may be reported on an earlier filed Form 4. All such statements shall be prepared and filed in accordance with the requirements of the applicable form.
(b) A person filing statements pursuant to section 16(a) of the Act with respect to any class of equity securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act need not file an additional statement on Form 3:
(1) When an additional class of equity securities of the same issuer becomes registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act; or
(2) When such person assumes a different or an additional relationship to the same issuer (for example, when an officer becomes a director).
(c) Any issuer that has equity securities listed on more than one national securities exchange may designate one exchange as the only exchange with which reports pursuant to section 16(a) of the Act need be filed. Such designation shall be made in writing and shall be filed with the Commission and with each national securities exchange on which any equity security of the issuer is listed at the time of such election. The reporting person's obligation to file reports with each national securities exchange on which any equity security of the issuer is listed shall be satisfied by filing with the exchange so designated.
(d) Any person required to file a statement with respect to securities of a single issuer under both section 16(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78p(a)) and section 30(h) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(h)) may file a
single statement containing the required information, which will be deemed to be filed under both Acts.
(e) [Reserved]
(f)(1) A Form 5 shall be filed by every person who at any time during the issuer's fiscal year was subject to section 16 of the Act with respect to such issuer, except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The Form shall be filed within 45 days after the issuer's fiscal year end, and shall disclose the following holdings and transactions not reported previously on Forms 3, 4 or 5:
(i) All transactions during the most recent fiscal year that were exempt from section 16(b) of the Act, except:
(A) Exercises and conversions of derivative securities exempt under either § 240.16b-3 or § 240.16b-6(b), dispositions by bona fide gifts exempt under § 240.16b-5, and any transaction exempt under § 240.16b-3(d), § 240.16b-3(e), or § 240.16b-3(f), (these are required to be reported on Form 4);
(B) Transactions exempt from section 16(b) of the Act pursuant to § 240.16b-3(c), which shall be exempt from section 16(a) of the Act; and
(C) Transactions exempt from section 16(a) of the Act pursuant to another rule;
(ii) Transactions that constituted small acquisitions pursuant to § 240.16a-6(a);
(iii) All holdings and transactions that should have been reported during the most recent fiscal year, but were not; and
(iv) With respect to the first Form 5 requirement for a reporting person, all holdings and transactions that should have been reported in each of the issuer's last two fiscal years but were not, based on the reporting person's reasonable belief in good faith in the completeness and accuracy of the information.
(2) Notwithstanding the above, no Form 5 shall be required where all transactions otherwise required to be reported on the Form 5 have been reported before the due date of the Form 5.
Persons no longer subject to section 16 of the Act, but who were subject to the Section at any time during the issuer's fiscal year, must file a Form 5 unless paragraph (f)(2) is satisfied.
See also
§ 240.16a-2(b) regarding the reporting obligations of persons ceasing to be officers or directors.
(g)(1) A Form 4 must be filed to report: All transactions not exempt from section 16(b) of the Act; all transactions exempt from section 16(b) of the Act pursuant to § 240.16b-3(d), § 240.16b-3(e), or § 240.16b-3(f); and dispositions by bona fide gifts and all exercises and conversions of derivative securities, regardless of whether exempt from section 16(b) of the Act. Form 4 must be filed before the end of the second business day following the day on which the subject transaction has been executed.
(2) Solely for purposes of section 16(a)(2)(C) of the Act and paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the date on which the executing broker, dealer or plan administrator notifies the reporting person of the execution of the transaction is deemed the date of execution for a transaction where the following conditions are satisfied:
(i) the transaction is pursuant to a contract, instruction or written plan for the purchase or sale of equity securities of the issuer (as defined in § 16a-1(d)) that satisfies the affirmative defense conditions of § 240.10b5-1(c) of this chapter; and
(ii) the reporting person does not select the date of execution.
(3) Solely for purposes of section 16(a)(2)(C) of the Act and paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the date on which the plan administrator notifies the reporting person that the transaction has been executed is deemed the date of execution for a discretionary transaction (as defined in § 16b-3(b)(1)) for which the reporting person does not select the date of execution.
(4) In the case of the transactions described in paragraphs (g)(2) and (g)(3) of this section, if the notification date is later than the third business day following the trade date of the transaction, the date of execution is deemed to be the third business day following the trade date of the transaction.
(5) At the option of the reporting person, transactions that are reportable on Form 5 may be reported on Form 4, so long as the Form 4 is filed no later than the due date of the Form 5 on
which the transaction is otherwise required to be reported.
(h) The date of filing with the Commission shall be the date of receipt by the Commission.
(i)
Signatures.
Where Section 16 of the Act, or the rules or forms thereunder, require a document filed with or furnished to the Commission to be signed, such document shall be manually signed, or signed using either typed signatures or duplicated or facsimile versions of manual signatures. Where typed, duplicated, or facsimile signatures are used, each signatory to the filing shall manually or electronically sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in the filing (“authentication document”). Such authentication document shall be executed before or at the time the filing is made and shall be retained by the filer for a period of five years. The requirements set forth in § 232.302(b) must be met with regards to the use of an electronically signed authentication document pursuant to this paragraph (i). Upon request, the filer shall furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to this section.
(j) Where more than one person subject to section 16 of the Act is deemed to be a beneficial owner of the same equity securities, all such persons must report as beneficial owners of the securities, either separately or jointly. Where persons in a group are deemed to be beneficial owners of equity securities pursuant to § 240.16a-1(a)(1) due to the aggregation of holdings, a single Form 3, 4 or 5 may be filed on behalf of all persons in the group. Joint and group filings must include all required information for each beneficial owner, and such filings must be signed by each beneficial owner, or on behalf of such owner by an authorized person.
(k) Any issuer that maintains a corporate Web site shall post on that Web site by the end of the business day after filing any Form 3, 4 or 5 filed under section 16(a) of the Act as to the equity securities of that issuer. Each such form shall remain accessible on such issuer's Web site for at least a 12-month period. In the case of an issuer that is an investment company and that does not maintain its own Web site, if any of the issuer's investment adviser, sponsor, depositor, trustee, administrator, principal underwriter, or any affiliated person of the investment company maintains a Web site that includes the name of the issuer, the issuer shall comply with the posting requirements by posting the forms on one such Web site.
[56 FR 7265, Feb. 21, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 26622, May 17, 1995; 61 FR 30392, 30404, June 14, 1996; 67 FR 43535, June 28, 2002; 67 FR 56467, Sept. 3, 2002; 68 FR 25799, May 13, 2003; 76 FR 71877, Nov. 21, 2011; 84 FR 12728, Apr. 2, 2019; 85 FR 78230, Dec. 4, 2020; 87 FR 80430, Dec. 29, 2022]
§ 240.16a-4
Derivative securities.
(a) For purposes of section 16 of the Act, both derivative securities and the underlying securities to which they relate shall be deemed to be the same class of equity securities,
except that
the acquisition or disposition of any derivative security shall be separately reported.
(b) The exercise or conversion of a call equivalent position shall be reported on Form 4 and treated for reporting purposes as:
(1) A purchase of the underlying security; and
(2) A closing of the derivative security position.
(c) The exercise or conversion of a put equivalent position shall be reported on Form 4 and treated for reporting purposes as:
(1) A sale of the underlying security; and
(2) A closing of the derivative security position.
(d) The disposition or closing of a long derivative security position, as a result of cancellation or expiration, shall be exempt from section 16(a) of the Act if exempt from section 16(b) of the Act pursuant to § 240.16b-6(d).

# Note to § 240.16
a

# -4:
A purchase or sale resulting from an exercise or conversion of a derivative security may be exempt from section 16(b) of the Act pursuant to § 240.16b-3 or § 240.16b-6(b).
[56 FR 7265, Feb. 21, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 19927, May 1, 1991; 61 FR 30392, June 14, 1996]
§ 240.16a-5
Odd-lot dealers.
Transactions by an odd-lot dealer (a) in odd-lots as reasonably necessary to carry on odd-lot transactions, or (b) in round lots to offset odd-lot transactions previously or simultaneously executed or reasonably anticipated in the usual course of business, shall be exempt from the provisions of section 16(a) of the Act with respect to participation by such odd-lot dealer in such transaction.
§ 240.16a-6
Small acquisitions.
(a) Any acquisition of an equity security or the right to acquire such securities, other than an acquisition from the issuer (including an employee benefit plan sponsored by the issuer), not exceeding $10,000 in market value shall be reported on Form 5, subject to the following conditions:
(1) Such acquisition, when aggregated with other acquisitions of securities of the same class (including securities underlying derivative securities, but excluding acquisitions exempted by rule from section 16(b) or previously reported on Form 4 or Form 5) within the prior six months, does not exceed a total of $10,000 in market value; and
(2) The person making the acquisition does not within six months thereafter make any disposition, other than by a transaction exempt from section 16(b) of the Act.
(b) If an acquisition no longer qualifies for the reporting deferral in paragraph (a) of this section, all such acquisitions that have not yet been reported must be reported on Form 4 before the end of the second business day following the day on which the conditions of paragraph (a) of this section are no longer met.
[56 FR 7265, Feb. 21, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 30392, June 14, 1996; 67 FR 56467, Sept. 3, 2002]
§ 240.16a-7
Transactions effected in connection with a distribution.
(a) Any purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of a security that is made in connection with the distribution of a substantial block of securities shall be exempt from the provisions of section 16(a) of the Act, to the extent specified in this rule, subject to the following conditions:
(1) The person effecting the transaction is engaged in the business of distributing securities and is participating in good faith, in the ordinary course of such business, in the distribution of such block of securities; and
(2) The security involved in the transaction is:
(i) Part of such block of securities and is acquired by the person effecting the transaction, with a view to distribution thereof, from the issuer or other person on whose behalf such securities are being distributed or from a person who is participating in good faith in the distribution of such block of securities; or
(ii) A security purchased in good faith by or for the account of the person effecting the transaction for the purpose of stabilizing the market price of securities of the class being distributed or to cover an over-allotment or other short position created in connection with such distribution.
(b) Each person participating in the transaction must qualify on an individual basis for an exemption pursuant to this section.
§ 240.16a-8
Trusts.
(a)
Persons subject to section 16
—(1)
Trusts.
A trust shall be subject to section 16 of the Act with respect to securities of the issuer if the trust is a beneficial owner, pursuant to § 240.16a-1(a)(1), of more than ten percent of any class of equity securities of the issuer registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act (“ten percent beneficial owner”).
(2)
Trustees, beneficiaries, and settlors.
In determining whether a trustee, beneficiary, or settlor is a ten percent beneficial owner with respect to the issuer:
(i) Such persons shall be deemed the beneficial owner of the issuer's securities held by the trust, to the extent specified by § 240.16a-1(a)(1); and
(ii) Settlors shall be deemed the beneficial owner of the issuer's securities held by the trust where they have the power to revoke the trust without the consent of another person.
(b)
Trust Holdings and Transactions.
Holdings and transactions in the issuer's securities held by a trust shall be reported by the trustee on behalf of
the trust, if the trust is subject to section 16 of the Act, except as provided below. Holdings and transactions in the issuer's securities held by a trust (whether or not subject to section 16 of the Act) may be reportable by other parties as follows:
(1)
Trusts.
The trust need not report holdings and transactions in the issuer's securities held by the trust in an employee benefit plan subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act over which no trustee exercises investment control.
(2)
Trustees.
If, as provided by § 240.16a-1(a)(2), a trustee subject to section 16 of the Act has a pecuniary interest in any holding or transaction in the issuer's securities held by the trust, such holding or transaction shall be attributed to the trustee and shall be reported by the trustee in the trustee's individual capacity, as well as on behalf of the trust. With respect to performance fees and holdings of the trustee's immediate family, trustees shall be deemed to have a pecuniary interest in the trust holdings and transactions in the following circumstances:
(i) A performance fee is received that does not meet the proviso of § 240.16a-1(a)(2)(ii)(C); or
(ii) At least one beneficiary of the trust is a member of the trustee's immediate family. The pecuniary interest of the immediate family member(s) shall be attributed to and reported by the trustee.
(3)
Beneficiaries.
A beneficiary subject to section 16 of the Act shall have or share reporting obligations with respect to transactions in the issuer's securities held by the trust, if the beneficiary is a beneficial owner of the securities pursuant to § 240.16a-1(a)(2), as follows:
(i) If a beneficiary shares investment control with the trustee with respect to a trust transaction, the transaction shall be attributed to and reported by both the beneficiary and the trust;
(ii) If a beneficiary has investment control with respect to a trust transaction without consultation with the trustee, the transaction shall be attributed to and reported by the beneficiary only; and
(iii) In making a determination as to whether a beneficiary is the beneficial owner of the securities pursuant to § 240.16a-1(a)(2), beneficiaries shall be deemed to have a pecuniary interest in the issuer's securities held by the trust to the extent of their pro rata interest in the trust where the trustee does not exercise exclusive investment control.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(3):
Transactions and holdings attributed to a trust beneficiary may be reported by the trustee on behalf of the beneficiary, provided that the report is signed by the beneficiary or other authorized person. Where the transactions and holdings are attributed both to the trustee and trust beneficiary, a joint report may be filed in accordance with § 240.16a-3(j).
(4)
Settlors.
If a settlor subject to section 16 of the Act reserves the right to revoke the trust without the consent of another person, the trust holdings and transactions shall be attributed to and reported by the settlor instead of the trust;
Provided, however,
That if the settlor does not exercise or share investment control over the issuer's securities held by the trust, the trust holdings and transactions shall be attributed to and reported by the trust instead of the settlor.
(c)
Remainder interests.
Remainder interests in a trust are deemed not to confer beneficial ownership for purposes of section 16 of the Act, provided that the persons with the remainder interests have no power, directly or indirectly, to exercise or share investment control over the trust.
(d) A trust, trustee, beneficiary or settlor becoming subject to section 16(a) of the Act pursuant to this rule also shall be subject to sections 16(b) and 16(c) of the Act.
[56 FR 7265, Feb. 21, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 19927, May 1, 1991; 61 FR 30392, June 14, 1996; 67 FR 56467, Sept. 3, 2002]
§ 240.16a-9
Stock splits, stock dividends, and pro rata rights.
The following shall be exempt from section 16 of the Act:
(a) The increase or decrease in the number of securities held as a result of a stock split or stock dividend applying equally to all securities of a class, including a stock dividend in which equity securities of a different issuer are distributed; and
(b) The acquisition of rights, such as shareholder or pre-emptive rights, pursuant to a pro rata grant to all holders of the same class of equity securities registered under section 12 of the Act.

# Note:
The exercise or sale of a pro rata right shall be reported pursuant to § 240.16a-4 and the exercise shall be eligible for exemption from section 16(b) of the Act pursuant to § 240.16b-6(b).
[56 FR 7265, Feb. 21, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 30393, June 14, 1996]
§ 240.16a-10
Exemptions under section 16(a).
Except as provided in § 240.16a-6, any transaction exempted from the requirements of section 16(a) of the Act, insofar as it is otherwise subject to the provisions of section 16(b), shall be likewise exempt from section 16(b) of the Act.
§ 240.16a-11
Dividend or interest reinvestment plans.
Any acquisition of securities resulting from the reinvestment of dividends or interest on securities of the same issuer shall be exempt from section 16 of the Act if the acquisition is made pursuant to a plan providing for the regular reinvestment of dividends or interest and the plan provides for broad-based participation, does not discriminate in favor of employees of the issuer, and operates on substantially the same terms for all plan participants.
[61 FR 30393, June 14, 1996]
§ 240.16a-12
Domestic relations orders.
The acquisition or disposition of equity securities pursuant to a domestic relations order, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or the rules thereunder, shall be exempt from section 16 of the Act.
[61 FR 30393, June 14, 1996]
§ 240.16a-13
Change in form of beneficial ownership.
A transaction, other than the exercise or conversion of a derivative security or deposit into or withdrawal from a voting trust, that effects only a change in the form of beneficial ownership without changing a person's pecuniary interest in the subject equity securities shall be exempt from section 16 of the Act.
[61 FR 30393, June 14, 1996]

# Exemption of Certain Transactions From Section 16(
b

# )

# Source:
Sections 240.16b-1 through 240.16b-8 appear at 56 FR 7270, Feb. 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 240.16b-1
Transactions approved by a regulatory authority.
Any purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of a security shall be exempt from section 16(b) of the Act, if the transaction is effected by an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) and both the purchase and sale of such security have been exempted from the provisions of section 17(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-17(a)) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, by rule or order of the Commission.
[56 FR 7270, Feb. 21, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 30404, June 14, 1996; 76 FR 71877, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 240.16b-2
[Reserved]
§ 240.16b-3
Transactions between an issuer and its officers or directors.
(a)
General.
A transaction between the issuer (including an employee benefit plan sponsored by the issuer) and an officer or director of the issuer that involves issuer equity securities shall be exempt from section 16(b) of the Act if the transaction satisfies the applicable conditions set forth in this section.
(b)
Definitions
—(1) A
Discretionary Transaction
shall mean a transaction pursuant to an employee benefit plan that:
(i) Is at the volition of a plan participant;
(ii) Is not made in connection with the participant's death, disability, retirement or termination of employment;
(iii) Is not required to be made available to a plan participant pursuant to a provision of the Internal Revenue Code; and
(iv) Results in either an intra-plan transfer involving an issuer equity securities fund, or a cash distribution
funded by a volitional disposition of an issuer equity security.
(2) An
Excess Benefit Plan
shall mean an employee benefit plan that is operated in conjunction with a Qualified Plan, and provides only the benefits or contributions that would be provided under a Qualified Plan but for any benefit or contribution limitations set forth in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or any successor provisions thereof.
(3)(i) A
Non-Employee Director
shall mean a director who:
(A) Is not currently an officer (as defined in § 240.16a-1(f)) of the issuer or a parent or subsidiary of the issuer, or otherwise currently employed by the issuer or a parent or subsidiary of the issuer;
(B) Does not receive compensation, either directly or indirectly, from the issuer or a parent or subsidiary of the issuer, for services rendered as a consultant or in any capacity other than as a director, except for an amount that does not exceed the dollar amount for which disclosure would be required pursuant to § 229.404(a) of this chapter; and
(C) Does not possess an interest in any other transaction for which disclosure would be required pursuant to § 229.404(a) of this chapter.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, a
Non-Employee Director
of a closed-end investment company shall mean a director who is not an “interested person” of the issuer, as that term is defined in Section 2(a)(19) of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(4) A
Qualified Plan
shall mean an employee benefit plan that satisfies the coverage and participation requirements of sections 410 and 401(a)(26) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or any successor provisions thereof.
(5) A
Stock Purchase Plan
shall mean an employee benefit plan that satisfies the coverage and participation requirements of sections 423(b)(3) and 423(b)(5), or section 410, of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or any successor provisions thereof.
(c)
Tax-conditioned plans.
Any transaction (other than a Discretionary Transaction) pursuant to a Qualified Plan, an Excess Benefit Plan, or a Stock Purchase Plan shall be exempt without condition.
(d)
Acquisitions from the issuer.
Any transaction, other than a Discretionary Transaction, involving an acquisition from the issuer (including without limitation a grant or award), whether or not intended for a compensatory or other particular purpose, shall be exempt if:
(1) The transaction is approved by the board of directors of the issuer, or a committee of the board of directors that is composed solely of two or more Non-Employee Directors;
(2) The transaction is approved or ratified, in compliance with section 14 of the Act, by either: the affirmative votes of the holders of a majority of the securities of the issuer present, or represented, and entitled to vote at a meeting duly held in accordance with the applicable laws of the state or other jurisdiction in which the issuer is incorporated; or the written consent of the holders of a majority of the securities of the issuer entitled to vote;
provided that
such ratification occurs no later than the date of the next annual meeting of shareholders; or
(3) The issuer equity securities so acquired are held by the officer or director for a period of six months following the date of such acquisition,
provided that
this condition shall be satisfied with respect to a derivative security if at least six months elapse from the date of acquisition of the derivative security to the date of disposition of the derivative security (other than upon exercise or conversion) or its underlying equity security.
(e)
Dispositions to the issuer.
Any transaction, other than a Discretionary Transaction, involving the disposition to the issuer of issuer equity securities, whether or not intended for a compensatory or other particular purpose, shall be exempt, provided that the terms of such disposition are approved in advance in the manner prescribed by either paragraph (d)(1) or paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(f)
Discretionary Transactions.
A Discretionary Transaction shall be exempt only if effected pursuant to an election made at least six months following the date of the most recent election, with respect to any plan of the issuer, that
effected a Discretionary Transaction that was:
(1) An acquisition, if the transaction to be exempted would be a disposition; or
(2) A disposition, if the transaction to be exempted would be an acquisition.

# Notes to § 240.16
b

# -3

# Note (1):
The exercise or conversion of a derivative security that does not satisfy the conditions of this section is eligible for exemption from section 16(b) of the Act to the extent that the conditions of § 240.16b-6(b) are satisfied.

# Note (2):
Section 16(a) reporting requirements applicable to transactions exempt pursuant to this section are set forth in § 240.16a-3(f) and (g) and § 240.16a-4.

# Note (3):
The approval conditions of paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2) and (e) of this section require the approval of each specific transaction, and are not satisfied by approval of a plan in its entirety except for the approval of a plan pursuant to which the terms and conditions of each transaction are fixed in advance, such as a formula plan. Where the terms of a subsequent transaction (such as the exercise price of an option, or the provision of an exercise or tax withholding right) are provided for in a transaction as initially approved pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2) or (e), such subsequent transaction shall not require further specific approval.

# Note (4):
For purposes of determining a director's status under those portions of paragraph (b)(3)(i) that reference § 229.404(a) of this chapter, an issuer may rely on the disclosure provided under § 229.404(a) of this chapter for the issuer's most recent fiscal year contained in the most recent filing in which disclosure required under § 229.404(a) is presented. Where a transaction disclosed in that filing was terminated before the director's proposed service as a Non-Employee Director, that transaction will not bar such service. The issuer must believe in good faith that any current or contemplated transaction in which the director participates will not be required to be disclosed under § 229.404(a) of this chapter, based on information readily available to the issuer and the director at the time such director proposes to act as a Non-Employee Director. At such time as the issuer believes in good faith, based on readily available information, that a current or contemplated transaction with a director will be required to be disclosed under § 229.404(a) in a future filing, the director no longer is eligible to serve as a Non-Employee Director;
provided, however,
that this determination does not result in retroactive loss of a Rule 16b-3 exemption for a transaction previously approved by the director while serving as a Non-Employee Director consistent with this note. In making the determinations specified in this Note, the issuer may rely on information it obtains from the director, for example, pursuant to a response to an inquiry.
[61 FR 30393, June 14, 1996, as amended at 70 FR 46089, Aug. 9, 2005; 71 FR 53263, Sept. 8, 2006]
§ 240.16b-4
[Reserved]
§ 240.16b-5
Bona fide gifts and inheritance.
Both the acquisition and the disposition of equity securities shall be exempt from the operation of section 16(b) of the Act if they are: (a) Bona fide gifts; or (b) transfers of securities by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
§ 240.16b-6
Derivative securities.
(a) The establishment of or increase in a call equivalent position or liquidation of or decrease in a put equivalent position shall be deemed a purchase of the underlying security for purposes of section 16(b) of the Act, and the establishment of or increase in a put equivalent position or liquidation of or decrease in a call equivalent position shall be deemed a sale of the underlying securities for purposes of section 16(b) of the Act:
Provided, however,
That if the increase or decrease occurs as a result of the fixing of the exercise price of a right initially issued without a fixed price, where the date the price is fixed is not known in advance and is outside the control of the recipient, the increase or decrease shall be exempt from section 16(b) of the Act with respect to any offsetting transaction within the six months prior to the date the price is fixed.
(b) The closing of a derivative security position as a result of its exercise or conversion shall be exempt from the operation of section 16(b) of the Act, and the acquisition of underlying securities at a fixed exercise price due to the exercise or conversion of a call equivalent position or the disposition of underlying securities at a fixed exercise price due to the exercise of a put equivalent position shall be exempt from the operation of section 16(b) of the Act:
Provided, however,
That the acquisition of underlying securities from
the exercise of an out-of-the-money option, warrant, or right shall not be exempt unless the exercise is necessary to comport with the sequential exercise provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 422A).

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
The exercise or conversion of a derivative security that does not satisfy the conditions of this section is eligible for exemption from section 16(b) of the Act to the extent that the conditions of § 240.16b-3 are satisfied.
(c) In determining the short-swing profit recoverable pursuant to section 16(b) of the Act from transactions involving the purchase and sale or sale and purchase of derivative and other securities, the following rules apply:
(1) Short-swing profits in transactions involving the purchase and sale or sale and purchase of derivative securities that have identical characteristics (e.g., purchases and sales of call options of the same strike price and expiration date, or purchases and sales of the same series of convertible debentures) shall be measured by the actual prices paid or received in the short-swing transactions.
(2) Short-swing profits in transactions involving the purchase and sale or sale and purchase of derivative securities having different characteristics but related to the same underlying security (e.g., the purchase of a call option and the sale of a convertible debenture) or derivative securities and underlying securities shall not exceed the difference in price of the underlying security on the date of purchase or sale and the date of sale or purchase. Such profits may be measured by calculating the short-swing profits that would have been realized had the subject transactions involved purchases and sales solely of the derivative security that was purchased or solely of the derivative security that was sold, valued as of the time of the matching purchase or sale, and calculated for the lesser of the number of underlying securities actually purchased or sold.
(d) Upon cancellation or expiration of an option within six months of the writing of the option, any profit derived from writing the option shall be recoverable under section 16(b) of the Act. The profit shall not exceed the premium received for writing the option. The disposition or closing of a long derivative security position, as a result of cancellation or expiration, shall be exempt from section 16(b) of the Act where no value is received from the cancellation or expiration.
[56 FR 7270, Feb. 21, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 30394, June 14, 1996]
§ 240.16b-7
Mergers, reclassifications, and consolidations.
(a) The following transactions shall be exempt from the provisions of section 16(b) of the Act:
(1) The acquisition of a security of a company, pursuant to a merger, reclassification or consolidation, in exchange for a security of a company that before the merger, reclassification or consolidation, owned 85 percent or more of either:
(i) The equity securities of all other companies involved in the merger, reclassification or consolidation, or in the case of a consolidation, the resulting company; or
(ii) The combined assets of all the companies involved in the merger, reclassification or consolidation, computed according to their book values before the merger, reclassification or consolidation as determined by reference to their most recent available financial statements for a 12 month period before the merger, reclassification or consolidation, or such shorter time as the company has been in existence.
(2) The disposition of a security, pursuant to a merger, reclassification or consolidation, of a company that before the merger, reclassification or consolidation, owned 85 percent or more of either:
(i) The equity securities of all other companies involved in the merger, reclassification or consolidation or, in the case of a consolidation, the resulting company; or
(ii) The combined assets of all the companies undergoing merger, reclassification or consolidation, computed according to their book values before the merger, reclassification or consolidation as determined by reference to their most recent available financial statements for a 12 month period before the merger, reclassification or consolidation.
(b) A merger within the meaning of this section shall include the sale or purchase of substantially all the assets of one company by another in exchange for equity securities which are then distributed to the security holders of the company that sold its assets.
(c) The exemption provided by this section applies to any securities transaction that satisfies the conditions specified in this section and is not conditioned on the transaction satisfying any other conditions.
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a person subject to section 16 of the Act makes any non-exempt purchase of a security in any company involved in the merger, reclassification or consolidation and any non-exempt sale of a security in any company involved in the merger, reclassification or consolidation within any period of less than six months during which the merger, reclassification or consolidation took place, the exemption provided by this section shall be unavailable to the extent of such purchase and sale.
[70 FR 46089, Aug. 9, 2005]
§ 240.16b-8
Voting trusts.
Any acquisition or disposition of an equity security or certificate representing equity securities involved in the deposit or withdrawal from a voting trust or deposit agreement shall be exempt from section 16(b) of the Act if substantially all of the assets held under the voting trust or deposit agreement immediately after the deposit or immediately prior to the withdrawal consisted of equity securities of the same class as the security deposited or withdrawn:
Provided, however,
That this exemption shall not apply if there is a non-exempt purchase or sale of an equity security of the class deposited within six months (including the date of withdrawal or deposit) of a non-exempt sale or purchase, respectively, of any certificate representing such equity security (other than the actual deposit or withdrawal).

# Exemption of Certain Transactions From Section 16(
c

# )

# Source:
Sections 240.16c-1 through 240.16c-4 appear at 56 FR 7273, Feb. 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 240.16c-1
Brokers.
Any transaction shall be exempt from section 16(c) of the Act to the extent necessary to render lawful the execution by a broker of an order for an account in which the broker has no direct or indirect interest.
§ 240.16c-2
Transactions effected in connection with a distribution.
Any transaction shall be exempt from section 16(c) of the Act to the extent necessary to render lawful any sale made by or on behalf of a dealer in connection with a distribution of a substantial block of securities, where the sale is represented by an over-allotment in which the dealer is participating as a member of an underwriting group, or the dealer or a person acting on the dealer's behalf intends in good faith to offset such sale with a security to be acquired by or on behalf of the dealer as a participant in an underwriting, selling, or soliciting-dealer group of which the dealer is a member at the time of the sale, whether or not the security to be acquired is subject to a prior offering to existing security holders or some other class of persons.
§ 240.16c-3
Exemption of sales of securities to be acquired.
(a) Whenever any person is entitled, incident to ownership of an issued security and without the payment of consideration, to receive another security “when issued” or “when distributed,” the sale of the security to be acquired shall be exempt from the operation of section 16(c) of the Act:
Provided,
That:
(1) The sale is made subject to the same conditions as those attaching to the right of acquisition;
(2) Such person exercises reasonable diligence to deliver such security to the purchaser promptly after the right of acquisition matures; and
(3) Such person reports the sale on the appropriate form for reporting transactions by persons subject to section 16(a) of the Act.
(b) This section shall not exempt transactions involving both a sale of the issued security and a sale of a security “when issued” or “when distributed” if the combined transactions result in a sale of more securities than the aggregate of issued securities
owned by the seller plus those to be received for the other security “when issued” or “when distributed.”
§ 240.16c-4
Derivative securities.
Establishing or increasing a put equivalent position shall be exempt from section 16(c) of the Act, so long as the amount of securities underlying the put equivalent position does not exceed the amount of underlying securities otherwise owned.

# Arbitrage Transactions
§ 240.16e-1
Arbitrage transactions under section 16.
It shall be unlawful for any director or officer of an issuer of an equity security which is registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act to effect any foreign or domestic arbitrage transaction in any equity security of such issuer, whether registered or not, unless he shall include such transaction in the statements required by section 16(a) and shall account to such issuer for the profits arising from such transaction, as provided in section 16(b). The provision of section 16(c) shall not apply to such arbitrage transactions. The provisions of section 16 shall not apply to any bona fide foreign or domestic arbitrage transaction insofar as it is effected by any person other than such director or officer of the issuer of such security.
(Secs. 4, 12, 13, 15, 16, 19, 24, 48 Stat. 77, 892, 894, 895, 896, 85, as amended, 901; 15 U.S.C. 77d, 78
l,
78m, 78
o,
78p, 77s, 78x)
[30 FR 2025, Feb. 13, 1965]

# Preservation of Records and Reports of Certain Stabilizing Activities
§ 240.17a-1
Recordkeeping rule for national securities exchanges, national securities associations, registered clearing agencies and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.
(a) Every national securities exchange, national securities association, registered clearing agency and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall keep and preserve at least one copy of all documents, including all correspondence, memoranda, papers, books, notices, accounts, and other such records as shall be made or received by it in the course of its business as such and in the conduct of its self-regulatory activity.
(b) Every national securities exchange, national securities association, registered clearing agency and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall keep all such documents for a period of not less than five years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, subject to the destruction and disposition provisions of Rule 17a-6.
(c) Every national securities exchange, registered securities association, registered clearing agency and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall, upon request of any representative of the Commission, promptly furnish to the possession of such representative copies of any documents required to be kept and preserved by it pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[45 FR 79426, Dec. 1, 1980]
§ 240.17a-2
Recordkeeping requirements relating to stabilizing activities.
(a)
Scope of section.
This section shall apply to any person who effects any purchase of a security subject to § 242.104 of this chapter for the purpose of, or who participates in a syndicate or group that engages in, “stabilizing,” as defined in § 242.100 of this chapter, the price of any security; or effects a purchase that is a “syndicate covering transaction,” as defined in § 242.100 of this chapter; or imposes a “penalty bid,” as defined in § 242.100 of this chapter:
(1) With respect to which a registration statement has been, or is to be, filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
); or
(2) Which is being, or is to be, offered pursuant to an exemption from registration under Regulation A (§§ 230.251 through 230.263 of this chapter) adopted under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
); or
(3) Which is being, or is to be, otherwise offered, if the aggregate offering price of the securities being offered exceeds $5,000,000.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) The term
manager
shall mean the person stabilizing or effecting syndicate covering transactions or imposing a penalty bid for its sole account or for the account of a syndicate or group in which it is a participant, and who, by contract or otherwise, deals with the issuer, organizes the selling effort, receives some benefit from the underwriting that is not shared by other underwriters, or represents any other underwriters in such matters as maintaining the records of the distribution and arranging for allotments of the securities offered.
(2) The term
exempted security
means an exempted security as defined in section 3(a)(12) of the Act, including securities issued, or guaranteed both as to principal and interest, by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
(c)
Records relating to stabilizing, syndicate covering transactions, and penalty bids required to be maintained by manager.
Any person subject to this section who acts as a manager and stabilizes or effects syndicate covering transactions or imposes a penalty bid shall:
(1) Promptly record and maintain the following separately retrievable information, for a period of not less than three years, the first two years in an easily accessible place;
Provided, however,
That if the information is in a record required to be made pursuant to § 240.17a-3 or § 240.17a-4, or otherwise preserved, such information need not be maintained in a separate file if the person can sort promptly and retrieve the information as if it had been kept in a separate file as a record made pursuant to, and preserves the information in accordance with the time periods specified in, this paragraph (c)(1):
(i) The name and class of any security stabilized or any security in which syndicate covering transactions have been effected or a penalty bid has been imposed;
(ii) The price, date, and time at which each stabilizing purchase or syndicate covering transaction was effected by the manager or by any participant in the syndicate or group, and whether any penalties were assessed;
(iii) The names and the addresses of the members of the syndicate or group;
(iv) Their respective commitments, or, in the case of a standby or contingent underwriting, the percentage participation of each member of the syndicate or group therein; and
(v) The dates when any penalty bid was in effect.
(2) Promptly furnish to each of the members of the syndicate or group the name and class of any security being stabilized, and the date and time at which the first stabilizing purchase was effected by the manager or by any participant in the syndicate or group; and
(3) Promptly notify each of the members of such syndicate or group of the date and time when stabilizing was terminated.
(d)
Notification to manager.
Any person who has a participation in a syndicate account but who is not a manager of such account, and who effects one or more stabilizing purchases or syndicate covering transactions for its sole account or for the account of a syndicate or group, shall within three business days following such purchase notify the manager of the price, date, and time at which such stabilizing purchase or syndicate covering transaction was effected, and shall in addition notify the manager of the date and time when such stabilizing purchase or syndicate covering transaction was terminated. The manager shall maintain such notifications in a separate file, together with the information required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, for a period of not less than three years, the first two years in an easily accessible place.
(Secs. 9(a)(6), 10(b), 17(a) and 23(a) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78i(a)(6), 78j(b), 78q(a) and 78w(a))
[48 FR 41378, Sept. 15, 1983, as amended at 62 FR 544, Jan. 3, 1997]
§ 240.17a-3
Records to be made by certain exchange members, brokers and dealers.
This section applies to the following types of entities: A member of a national securities exchange who transacts a business in securities directly with others than members of a national securities exchange; a broker or
dealer who transacts a business in securities through the medium of a member of a national securities exchange; a broker or dealer, including an
OTC derivatives dealer
as that term is defined in § 240.3b-12, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
); a security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10) that is also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; and a major security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act. Section 240.18a-5 (rather than this section) applies to the following types of entities: A security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is not also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; and a major security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is not also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act.
(a) Every member of a national securities exchange who transacts a business in securities directly with others than members of a national securities exchange, every broker or dealer who transacts a business in securities through the medium of any such member, and every broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
) must make and keep current the following books and records relating to its business:
(1) Blotters (or other records of original entry) containing an itemized daily record of all purchases and sales of securities (including security-based swaps), all receipts and deliveries of securities (including certificate numbers), all receipts and disbursements of cash and all other debits and credits. Such records must show the account for which each such purchase or sale was effected, the name and amount of securities, the unit and aggregate purchase or sale price, if any (including the financial terms for security-based swaps), the trade date, and the name or other designation of the person from whom such securities were purchased or received or to whom sold or delivered. For security-based swaps, such records must also show, for each transaction, the type of security-based swap, the reference security, index, or obligor, the date and time of execution, the effective date, the scheduled termination date, the notional amount(s) and the currenc(ies) in which the notional amount(s) is expressed, the unique transaction identifier, and the counterparty's unique identification code.
(2) Ledgers (or other records) reflecting all assets and liabilities, income and expense and capital accounts.
(3) Ledger accounts (or other records) itemizing separately as to each cash, margin, or security-based swap account of every customer and of such member, broker or dealer and partners thereof, all purchases, sales, receipts and deliveries of securities (including security-based swaps) and commodities for such account, and all other debits and credits to such account; and, in addition, for a security-based swap, the type of security-based swap, the reference security, index, or obligor, the date and time of execution, the effective date, the scheduled termination date, the notional amount(s) and the currenc(ies) in which the notional amount(s) is expressed, the unique transaction identifier, and the counterparty's unique identification code.
(4) Ledgers (or other records) reflecting the following:
(i) Securities in transfer;
(ii) Dividends and interest received;
(iii) Securities borrowed and securities loaned;
(iv) Moneys borrowed and moneys loaned (together with a record of the collateral therefor and any substitutions in such collateral);
(v) Securities failed to receive and failed to deliver;
(vi) All long and all short securities record differences arising from the examination, count, verification, and comparison pursuant to §§ 240.17a-5, 240.17a-12, 240.17a-13, and 240.18a-7, as applicable (by date of examination, count, verification, and comparison showing for each security the number of long or short count differences); and
(vii) Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements.
(5) A securities record or ledger reflecting separately for each:
(i) Security, other than a security-based swap, as of the clearance dates all “long” or “short” positions (including securities in safekeeping and securities that are the subjects of repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements) carried by such member, broker or dealer for its account or for the account of its customers or partners, or others, and showing the location of all securities long and the offsetting position to all securities short, including long security count differences and short security count differences classified by the date of the physical count and verification in which they were discovered, and in all cases the name or designation of the account in which each position is carried.
(ii) Security-based swap, the reference security, index, or obligor, the unique transaction identifier, the counterparty's unique identification code, whether it is a “bought” or “sold” position in the security-based swap, whether the security-based swap is cleared or not cleared, and if cleared, identification of the clearing agency where the security-based swap is cleared.
(6)(i) A memorandum of each brokerage order, and of any other instruction, given or received for the purchase or sale of a security, except for the purchase or sale of a security-based swap, whether executed or unexecuted.
(A) The memorandum must show the terms and conditions of the order or instructions and of any modification or cancellation thereof, the account for which entered, the time the order was received, the time of entry, the price at which executed, the identity of each associated person, if any, responsible for the account, the identity of any other person who entered or accepted the order on behalf of the customer, or, if a customer entered the order on an electronic system, a notation of that entry; and, to the extent feasible, the time of execution or cancellation. The memorandum need not show the identity of any person, other than the associated person responsible for the account, who may have entered or accepted the order if the order is entered into an electronic system that generates the memorandum and if that system is not capable of receiving an entry of the identity of any person other than the responsible associated person; in that circumstance, the member, broker or dealer must produce upon request by a representative of a securities regulatory authority a separate record which identifies each other person. An order entered pursuant to the exercise of discretionary authority by the member, broker or dealer, or associated person thereof, must be so designated. The term
instruction
must include instructions between partners and employees of a member, broker or dealer. The term
time of entry
means the time when the member, broker or dealer transmits the order or instruction for execution.
(B) The memorandum need not be made as to a purchase, sale or redemption of a security on a subscription way basis directly from or to the issuer, if the member, broker or dealer maintains a copy of the customer's or non-customer's subscription agreement regarding a purchase, or a copy of any other document required by the issuer regarding a sale or redemption.
(ii) A memorandum of each brokerage order, and of any other instruction, given or received for the purchase or sale of a security-based swap, whether executed or unexecuted. The memorandum must show the terms and conditions of the order or instructions and of any modification or cancellation thereof; the account for which entered; the time the order was received; the time of entry; the price at which executed; the identity of each associated person, if any, responsible for the account; the identity of any other person who entered or accepted the order on behalf of the customer, or, if a customer entered the order on an electronic system, a notation of that entry; and, to the extent feasible, the time of cancellation, if applicable. The memorandum also must include the type of the security-based swap, the reference security, index, or obligor, the date and time of execution, the effective date, the scheduled termination, the notional amount(s) and the currenc(ies) in which the notional
amount(s) is expressed, the unique transaction identifier, and the counterparty's unique identification code. An order entered pursuant to the exercise of discretionary authority must be so designated.
(7)(i) A memorandum of each purchase or sale of a security, other than for the purchase or sale of a security-based swap, for the account of the member, broker or dealer showing the price and, to the extent feasible, the time of execution; and, in addition, where the purchase or sale is with a customer other than a broker or dealer, a memorandum of each order received, showing the time of receipt; the terms and conditions of the order and of any modification thereof; the account for which it was entered; the identity of each associated person, if any, responsible for the account; the identity of any other person who entered or accepted the order on behalf of the customer, or, if a customer entered the order on an electronic system, a notation of that entry. The memorandum need not show the identity of any person other than the associated person responsible for the account who may have entered the order if the order is entered into an electronic system that generates the memorandum and if that system is not capable of receiving an entry of the identity of any person other than the responsible associated person. In the circumstance in the preceding sentence, the member, broker or dealer must produce upon request by a representative of a securities regulatory authority a separate record that identifies each other person. An order with a customer other than a member, broker or dealer entered pursuant to the exercise of discretionary authority by the member, broker or dealer, or associated person thereof, must be so designated.
(ii) A memorandum of each purchase or sale of a security-based swap for the account of the member, broker or dealer showing the price; and, in addition, where the purchase or sale is with a customer other than a broker or dealer, a memorandum of each order received, showing the time of receipt; the terms and conditions of the order and of any modification thereof; the account for which it was entered; the identity of any other person who entered or accepted the order on behalf of the customer, or, if a customer entered the order on an electronic system, a notation of that entry. The memorandum must also include the type of security-based swap, the reference security, index, or obligor, the date and time of execution, the effective date, the scheduled termination date, the notional amount(s) and the currenc(ies) in which the notional amount(s) is expressed, the unique transaction identifier, and the counterparty's unique identification code. An order entered pursuant to the exercise of discretionary authority must be so designated.
(8)(i) With respect to a security other than a security-based swap, copies of confirmations of all purchases and sales of securities, including all repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and copies of notices of all other debits and credits for securities, cash and other items for the account of customers and partners of such member, broker or dealer.
(ii) With respect to a security-based swap, copies of the security-based swap trade acknowledgment and verification made in compliance with § 240.15Fi-2.
(9) A record with respect to each cash, margin, and security-based swap account with such member, broker or dealer indicating, as applicable:
(i) The name and address of the beneficial owner of such account;
(ii) Except with respect to exempt employee benefit plan securities as defined in § 240.14a-1(d), but only to the extent such securities are held by employee benefit plans established by the issuer of the securities, whether or not the beneficial owner of securities registered in the name of such members, brokers or dealers, or a registered clearing agency or its nominee objects to disclosure of his or her identity, address, and securities positions to issuers;
(iii) In the case of a margin account, the signature of such owner; provided that, in the case of a joint account or an account of a corporation, such records are required only in respect of the person or persons authorized to transact business for such account; and
(iv) For each security-based swap account, a record of the unique identification code of such counterparty, the name and address of such counterparty, and a record of the authorization of each person the counterparty has granted authority to transact business in the security-based swap account.
(10) A record of all puts, calls, spreads, straddles, and other options in which such member, broker or dealer has any direct or indirect interest or which such member, broker or dealer, has granted or guaranteed, containing, at least, an identification of the security, and the number of units involved. An OTC derivatives dealer must also keep a record of all eligible OTC derivative instruments as defined in § 240.3b-13 in which the OTC derivatives dealer has any direct or indirect interest or which it has written or guaranteed, containing, at a minimum, an identification of the security or other instrument, the number of units involved, and the identity of the counterparty.
(11) A record of the proof of money balances of all ledger accounts in the form of trial balances and a record of the computation of aggregate indebtedness and net capital, as of the trial balance date, pursuant to § 240.15c3-1 or § 240.18a-1, as applicable. The computation need not be made by any member, broker or dealer unconditionally exempt from § 240.15c3-1 pursuant to § 240.15c3-1(b)(1) or (3). Such trial balances and computations must be prepared currently at least once a month.
(12)(i) A questionnaire or application for employment executed by each
associated person
as that term is defined in paragraph (g)(4) of this section of the member, broker or dealer, which questionnaire or application must be approved in writing by an authorized representative of the member, broker or dealer and must contain at least the following information with respect to the associated person:
(A) The associated person's name, address, social security number, and the starting date of the associated person's employment or other association with the member, broker or dealer;
(B) The associated person's date of birth;
(C) A complete, consecutive statement of all the associated person's business connections for at least the preceding ten years, including whether the employment was part-time or full-time;
(D) A record of any denial of membership or registration, and of any disciplinary action taken, or sanction imposed, upon the associated person by any federal or state agency, or by any national securities exchange or national securities association, including any finding that the associated person was a cause of any disciplinary action or had violated any law;
(E) A record of any denial, suspension, expulsion, or revocation of membership or registration of any member, broker or dealer with which the associated person was associated in any capacity when such action was taken;
(F) A record of any permanent or temporary injunction entered against the associated person, or any member, broker, dealer, security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant with which the associated person was associated in any capacity at the time such injunction was entered;
(G) A record of any arrest or indictment for any felony, or any misdemeanor pertaining to securities, commodities, banking, insurance or real estate (including, but not limited to, acting or being associated with a broker or dealer, investment company, investment adviser, futures sponsor, bank, or savings and loan association), fraud, false statements or omissions, wrongful taking of property or bribery, forgery, counterfeiting, or extortion, and the disposition of the foregoing; and
(H) A record of any other name or names by which the associated person has been known or which the associated person has used.
(I) Provided, however, that if such associated person has been registered as a registered representative of such member, broker or dealer with, or the associated person's employment has been approved by a registered national securities association or a registered national securities exchange, then retention of a full, correct, and complete copy of any and all applications for
such registration or approval will be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (a)(12)(i).
(ii) A record listing every associated person of the member, broker or dealer which shows, for each associated person, every office of the member, broker or dealer, where the associated person regularly conducts the business of handling funds or securities or effecting any transactions in, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any security for the member, broker or dealer and the Central Registration Depository number, if any, and every internal identification number or code assigned to that person by the member, broker or dealer.
(13) Records required to be maintained pursuant to paragraph (d) of § 240.17f-2.
(14) Copies of all Forms X-17F-1A filed pursuant to § 240.17f-1, all agreements between reporting institutions regarding registration or other aspects of § 240.17f-1, and all confirmations or other information received from the Commission or its designee as a result of inquiry.
(15) Records required to be maintained pursuant to paragraph (e) of § 240.17f-2.
(16)(i) The following records regarding any internal broker-dealer system of which such a broker or dealer is the sponsor:
(A) A record of the broker's or dealer's customers that have access to an internal broker-dealer system sponsored by such broker or dealer (identifying any affiliations between such customers and the broker or dealer);
(B) Daily summaries of trading in the internal broker-dealer system, including:
(
1
) Securities for which transactions have been executed through use of such system; and
(
2
) Transaction volume (separately stated for trading occurring during hours when consolidated trade reporting facilities are and are not in operation):
(
i
) With respect to equity securities, stated in number of trades, number of shares, and total U.S. dollar value;
(
ii
) With respect to debt securities, stated in total settlement value in U.S. dollars; and
(
iii
) With respect to other securities, stated in number of trades, number of units of securities, and in dollar value, or other appropriate commonly used measure of value of such securities; and
(C) Time-sequenced records of each transaction effected through the internal broker-dealer system, including date and time executed, price, size, security traded, counterparty identification information, and method of execution (if internal broker-dealer system allows alternative means or locations for execution, such as routing to another market, matching with limit orders, or executing against the quotations of the broker or dealer sponsoring the system).
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term:
(A)
Internal broker-dealer system
means any facility, other than a national securities exchange, an exchange exempt from registration based on limited volume, or an alternative trading system as defined in Regulation ATS, §§ 242.300 through 242.303 of this chapter, that provides a mechanism, automated in full or in part, for collecting, receiving, disseminating, or displaying system orders and facilitating agreement to the basic terms of a purchase or sale of a security between a customer and the sponsor, or between two customers of the sponsor, through use of the internal broker-dealer system or through the broker or dealer sponsor of such system;
(B)
Sponsor
means any broker or dealer that organizes, operates, administers, or otherwise directly controls an internal broker-dealer trading system or, if the operator of the internal broker-dealer system is not a registered broker or dealer, any broker or dealer that, pursuant to contract, affiliation, or other agreement with the system operator, is involved on a regular basis with executing transactions in connection with use of the internal broker-dealer system, other than solely for its own account or as a customer with access to the internal broker-dealer system; and
(C)
System order
means any order or other communication or indication submitted by any customer with access to the internal broker-dealer system
for entry into a trading system announcing an interest in purchasing or selling a security. The term “system order” does not include inquiries or indications of interest that are not entered into the internal broker-dealer system.
(17) For each account with a natural person as a customer or owner:
(i)(A) An account record including the customer's or owner's name, tax identification number, address, telephone number, date of birth, employment status (including occupation and whether the customer is an associated person of a member, broker or dealer), annual income, net worth (excluding value of primary residence), and the account's investment objectives. In the case of a joint account, the account record must include personal information for each joint owner who is a natural person; however, financial information for the individual joint owners may be combined. The account record must indicate whether it has been signed by the associated person responsible for the account, if any, and approved or accepted by a principal of the member, broker or dealer. For accounts in existence on the effective date of this section, the member, broker or dealer must obtain this information within three years of the effective date of the section.
(B) A record indicating that:
(
1
) The member, broker or dealer has furnished to each customer or owner within three years of the effective date of this section, and to each customer or owner who opened an account after the effective date of this section within thirty days of the opening of the account, and thereafter at intervals no greater than thirty-six months, a copy of the account record or an alternate document with all information required by paragraph (a)(17)(i)(A) of this section. The member, broker or dealer may elect to send this notification with the next statement mailed to the customer or owner after the opening of the account. The member, broker or dealer may choose to exclude any tax identification number and date of birth from the account record or alternative document furnished to the customer or owner. The member, broker or dealer must include with the account record or alternative document provided to each customer or owner an explanation of any terms regarding investment objectives. The account record or alternate document furnished to the customer or owner must include or be accompanied by prominent statements that the customer or owner should mark any corrections and return the account record or alternate document to the member, broker or dealer, and that the customer or owner should notify the member, broker or dealer of any future changes to information contained in the account record.
(
2
) For each account record updated to reflect a change in the name or address of the customer or owner, the member, broker or dealer furnished a notification of that change to the customer's old address, or to each joint owner, and the associated person, if any, responsible for that account, on or before the 30th day after the date the member, broker or dealer received notice of the change.
(
3
) For each change in the account's investment objectives the member, broker or dealer has furnished to each customer or owner, and the associated person, if any, responsible for that account a copy of the updated customer account record or alternative document with all information required to be furnished by paragraph (a)(17)(i)(B)(
1
) of this section, on or before the 30th day after the date the member, broker or dealer received notice of any change, or, if the account was updated for some reason other than the firm receiving notice of a change, after the date the account record was updated. The member, broker or dealer may elect to send this notification with the next statement scheduled to be mailed to the customer or owner.
(C) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(17), the neglect, refusal, or inability of a customer or owner to provide or update any account record information required under paragraph (a)(17)(i)(A) of this section will excuse the member, broker or dealer from obtaining that required information.
(D) The account record requirements in paragraph (a)(17)(i)(A) of this section will only apply to accounts for which the member, broker or dealer is, or has
within the past 36 months been, required to make a suitability determination under the federal securities laws or under the requirements of a self-regulatory organization of which it is a member. Additionally, the furnishing requirement in paragraph (a)(17)(i)(B)(
1
) of this section will not be applicable to an account for which, within the last 36 months, the member, broker or dealer has not been required to make a suitability determination under the federal securities laws or under the requirements of a self-regulatory organization of which it is a member. This paragraph (a)(17)(i)(D) does not relieve a member, broker or dealer from any obligation arising from the rules of a self-regulatory organization of which it is a member regarding the collection of information from a customer or owner.
(ii) If an account is a discretionary account, a record containing the dated signature of each customer or owner granting the authority and the dated signature of each natural person to whom discretionary authority was granted.
(iii) A record for each account indicating that each customer or owner was furnished with a copy of each written agreement entered into on or after the effective date of this paragraph pertaining to that account and that, if requested by the customer or owner, the customer or owner was furnished with a fully executed copy of each agreement.
(18) A record:
(i) As to each associated person of each written customer complaint received by the member, broker or dealer concerning that associated person. The record must include the complainant's name, address, and account number; the date the complaint was received; the name of any other associated person identified in the complaint; a description of the nature of the complaint; and the disposition of the complaint. Instead of the record, a member, broker or dealer may maintain a copy of each original complaint in a separate file by the associated person named in the complaint along with a record of the disposition of the complaint.
(ii) Indicating that each customer of the member, broker or dealer has been provided with a notice containing the address and telephone number of the department of the member, broker or dealer to which any complaints as to the account may be directed.
(19) A record:
(i) As to each associated person listing each purchase and sale of a security attributable, for compensation purposes, to that associated person. The record must include the amount of compensation if monetary and a description of the compensation if non-monetary. In lieu of making this record, a member, broker or dealer may elect to produce the required information promptly upon request of a representative of a securities regulatory authority.
(ii) Of all agreements pertaining to the relationship between each associated person and the member, broker or dealer including a summary of each associated person's compensation arrangement or plan with the member, broker or dealer, including commission and concession schedules and, to the extent that compensation is based on factors other than remuneration per trade, the method by which the compensation is determined.
(20) A record, which need not be separate from the advertisements, sales literature, or communications, documenting that the member, broker or dealer has complied with, or adopted policies and procedures reasonably designed to establish compliance with, applicable federal requirements and rules of a self-regulatory organization of which the member, broker or dealer is a member which require that advertisements, sales literature, or any other communications with the public by a member, broker or dealer or its associated persons be approved by a principal.
(21) A record for each office listing, by name or title, each person at that office who, without delay, can explain the types of records the firm maintains at that office and the information contained in those records.
(22) A record listing each principal of a member, broker or dealer responsible for establishing policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to ensure
compliance with any applicable federal requirements or rules of a self-regulatory organization of which the member, broker or dealer is a member that require acceptance or approval of a record by a principal.
(23) A record documenting the credit, market, and liquidity risk management controls established and maintained by the broker or dealer to assist it in analyzing and managing the risks associated with its business activities,
Provided,
that the records required by this paragraph (a)(23) need only be made if the broker or dealer has more than:
(i) $1,000,000 in aggregate credit items as computed under § 240.15c3-3a; or
(ii) $20,000,000 in capital, which includes debt subordinated in accordance with § 240.15c3-1d.
(24) A record of the date that each Form CRS was provided to each retail investor, including any Form CRS provided before such retail investor opens an account.
(25) A record of the daily calculation of the current exposure and, if applicable, the initial margin amount for each account of a counterparty required under § 240.18a-3(c).
(26) A record of compliance with possession or control requirements under § 240.15c3-3(p)(2).
(27) A record of the reserve computation required under § 240.15c3-3(p)(3).
(28) A record of each security-based swap transaction that is not verified under § 240.15Fi-2 within five business days of execution that includes, at a minimum, the unique transaction identifier and the counterparty's unique identification code.
(29) A record documenting that the broker or dealer has complied with the business conduct standards as required under § 240.15Fh-6.
(30) A record documenting that the broker or dealer has complied with the business conduct standards as required under §§ 240.15Fh-1 through 240.15Fh-5 and 240.15Fk-1.
(31)(i) A record of each security-based swap portfolio reconciliation, whether conducted pursuant to § 240.15Fi-3 or otherwise, including the dates of the security-based swap portfolio reconciliation, the number of portfolio reconciliation discrepancies, the number of security-based swap valuation disputes (including the time-to-resolution of each valuation dispute and the age of outstanding valuation disputes, categorized by transaction and counterparty), and the name of the third-party entity performing the security-based swap portfolio reconciliation, if any.
(ii) A copy of each notification required to be provided to the Commission pursuant to § 240.15Fi-3(c).
(iii) A record of each bilateral offset and each bilateral portfolio compression exercise or multilateral portfolio compression exercise in which it participates, whether conducted pursuant to § 240.15Fi-4 or otherwise, including the dates of the offset or compression, the security-based swaps included in the offset or compression, the identity of the counterparties participating in the offset or compression, the results of the compression, and the name of the third-party entity performing the offset or compression, if any.
(32)-(34) [Reserved]
(35) For each retail customer to whom a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities is or will be provided:
(i) A record of all information collected from and provided to the retail customer pursuant to § 240.15
l
-1, as well as the identity of each natural person who is an associated person, if any, responsible for the account.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(35), the neglect, refusal, or inability of the retail customer to provide or update any information described in paragraph (a)(35)(i) of this section shall excuse the broker, dealer, or associated person from obtaining that required information.
(b) A broker or dealer may comply with the recordkeeping requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act and chapter I of this title applicable to swap dealers and major swap participants in lieu of complying with paragraphs (a)(1), (3), and (5) of this section solely with respect to required information regarding security-based swap transactions and positions if:
(1) The broker or dealer is registered as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant
pursuant to section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10);
(2) The broker or dealer is registered as a swap dealer or major swap participant pursuant to section 4s of the Commodity Exchange Act and chapter I of this title;
(3) The broker or dealer is subject to 17 CFR 23.201, 23.202, 23.402, and 23.501 with respect to its swap-related books and records;
(4) The broker or dealer preserves all of the data elements necessary to create the records required by paragraphs (a)(1), (3), and (5) of this section as they pertain to security-based swap and swap transactions and positions;
(5) The broker or dealer upon request furnishes promptly to representatives of the Commission the records required by paragraphs (a)(1), (3), and (5) of this section as well as the records required by 17 CFR 23.201, 23.202, 23.402, and 23.501 as they pertain to security-based swap and swap transactions and positions in the format applicable to that category of record as set forth in this section; and
(6) The broker or dealer provides notice of its intent to utilize this paragraph (b) by notifying in writing the Commission, both at the principal office of the Commission in Washington, DC, and at the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the registrant has its principal place of business, as well as by notifying in writing the registrant's designated examining authority.
(c) A member of a national securities exchange, or a broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
), that introduces accounts on a fully-disclosed basis, is not required to make or keep such records of transactions cleared for such member, broker or dealer as are made and kept by a clearing broker or dealer pursuant to the requirements of this section and § 240.17a-4. Nothing in this paragraph (c) will be deemed to relieve such member, broker or dealer from the responsibility that such books and records be accurately maintained and preserved as specified in this section and § 240.17a-4.
(d) For purposes of transactions in municipal securities by municipal securities brokers and municipal securities dealers, compliance with Rule G-8 of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board or any successor rule will be deemed to be in compliance with this section.
(e) The provisions of this section will not apply to security futures product transactions and positions in a
futures account
(as that term is defined in § 240.15c3-3(a)(15)); provided, that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's recordkeeping rules apply to those transactions and positions.
(f) Every member, broker or dealer must make and keep current, as to each office, the books and records described in paragraphs (a)(1), (6), (7), (12), and (17), (a)(18)(i), and (a)(19) through (22) of this section.
(g) When used in this section:
(1) The term
office
means any location where one or more associated persons regularly conduct the business of handling funds or securities or effecting any transactions in, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of, any security.
(2) The term
principal
means any individual registered with a registered national securities association as a principal or branch manager of a member, broker or dealer or any other person who has been delegated supervisory responsibility over associated persons by the member, broker or dealer.
(3) The term
securities regulatory authority
means the Commission, any self-regulatory organization, or any securities commission (or any agency or office performing like functions) of the States.
(4) The term
associated person
means a “person associated with a broker or dealer” or “person associated with a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant” as defined in sections 3(a)(18) and (70) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(18) and (70)) respectively, but does not include persons whose functions are solely clerical or ministerial.

# Cross Reference:
For interpretative release applicable to § 240.17a-3, see No. 3040 in tabulation, part 241 of this chapter.
[13 FR 8212, Dec. 22, 1948]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 240.17a-3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the
Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 240.17a-4
Records to be preserved by certain exchange members, brokers and dealers.
This section applies to the following types of entities: A member of a national securities exchange who transacts a business in securities directly with others than members of a national securities exchange; a broker or dealer who transacts a business in securities through the medium of a member of a national securities exchange; a broker or dealer, including an
OTC derivatives dealer
as that term is defined in § 240.3b-12, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
); a security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10) that is also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; and a major security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act. Section 240.18a-6 (rather than this section) applies to the following types of entities: A security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is not also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; and a major security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is not also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act.
(a) Every member, broker or dealer subject to § 240.17a-3 must preserve for a period of not less than 6 years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, all records required to be made pursuant to § 240.17a-3(a)(1) through (3), (5), and (21) and (22), and analogous records created pursuant to § 240.17a-3(e).
(b) Every member, broker or dealer subject to § 240.17a-3 must preserve for a period of not less than three years, the first two years in an easily accessible place:
(1) All records required to be made pursuant to § 240.17a-3(a)(4), (6) through (11), (16), (18) through (20), and (25) through (31), and analogous records created pursuant to § 240.17a-3(e).
(2) All check books, bank statements, cancelled checks and cash reconciliations.
(3) All bills receivable or payable (or copies thereof), paid or unpaid, relating to the member, broker or dealer's business as such.
(4) Originals of all communications received and copies of all communications sent (and any approvals thereof) by the member, broker or dealer (including inter-office memoranda and communications) relating to its business as such, including all communications which are subject to rules of a self-regulatory organization of which the member, broker or dealer is a member regarding communications with the public. As used in this paragraph (b)(4), the term
communications
includes sales scripts and recordings of telephone calls required to be maintained pursuant to section 15F(g)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10(g)(1)).
(5) All trial balances, computations of aggregate indebtedness and net capital (and working papers in connection therewith), financial statements, branch office reconciliations, and internal audit working papers, relating to the member, broker or dealer's business as such.
(6) All guarantees of accounts and all powers of attorney and other evidence of the granting of any discretionary authority given in respect of any account, and copies of resolutions empowering an agent to act on behalf of a corporation.
(7) All written agreements (or copies thereof) entered into by such member, broker or dealer relating to its business as such, including agreements with respect to any account. Written agreements with respect to a security-based swap customer or non-customer, including governing documents or any document establishing the terms and conditions of the customer's or non-customer's security-based swaps must be maintained with the customer's or non-customer's account records.
(8) Records which contain the following information in support of amounts included in the report prepared as of the fiscal year end on Part II or IIA of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of
this chapter), as applicable, and in the annual financial statements filed with the Commission required by § 240.17a-5(d), § 240.17a-12(b), or § 240.18a-7(c), as applicable:
(i) Money balance and position, long or short, including description, quantity, price, and valuation of each security including contractual commitments in customers' accounts, in cash and fully secured accounts, partly secured accounts, unsecured accounts, and in securities accounts payable to customers;
(ii) Money balance and position, long or short, including description, quantity, price and valuation of each security including contractual commitments in non-customers' accounts, in cash and fully secured accounts, partly secured and unsecured accounts, and in securities accounts payable to non-customers;
(iii) Position, long or short, including description, quantity, price and valuation of each security including contractual commitments included in the Computation of Net Capital as commitments, securities owned, securities owned not readily marketable, and other investments owned not readily marketable;
(iv) Amount of secured demand note, description of collateral securing such secured demand note including quantity, price and valuation of each security and cash balance securing such secured demand note;
(v) Description of futures commodity contracts or swaps, contract value on trade date, market value, gain or loss, and liquidating equity or deficit in customers' and non-customers' accounts;
(vi) Description of futures commodity contracts or swaps, contract value on trade date, market value, gain or loss, and liquidating equity or deficit in trading and investment accounts;
(vii) Description, money balance, quantity, price, and valuation of each spot commodity, and swap position or commitments in customers' and non-customers' accounts;
(viii) Description, money balance, quantity, price, and valuation of each spot commodity, and swap position or commitments in trading and investment accounts;
(ix) Number of shares, description of security, exercise price, cost and market value of put and call options including short out of the money options having no market or exercise value, showing listed and unlisted put and call options separately;
(x) Quantity, price, and valuation of each security underlying the haircut for undue concentration made in the Computation for Net Capital;
(xi) Description, quantity, price and valuation of each security and commodity position or contractual commitment, long or short, in each joint account in which the broker or dealer has an interest, including each participant's interest and margin deposit;
(xii) Description, settlement date, contract amount, quantity, market price, and valuation for each aged failed to deliver requiring a charge in the Computation of Net Capital pursuant to § 240.15c3-1 or § 240.18a-1, as applicable;
(xiii) Detail relating to information for possession or control requirements under § 240.15c3-3 or § 240.18a-4, as applicable and reported in Part II or IIA of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), as applicable;
(xiv) Detail relating to information for security-based swap possession or control requirements under § 240.15c3-3 or § 240.18a-4, as applicable, and reported in Part II or IIA of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter);
(xv) Detail of all items, not otherwise substantiated, which are charged or credited in the Computation of Net Capital pursuant to § 240.15c3-1 or § 240.18a-1, as applicable, such as cash margin deficiencies, deductions related to securities values and undue concentration, aged securities differences, and insurance claims receivable;
(xvi) Detail relating to the calculation of the risk margin amount pursuant to § 240.15c3-1(c)(17) or § 240.18a-1(c)(6), as applicable; and
(xvii) Other schedules which are specifically prescribed by the Commission as necessary to support information reported as required by §§ 240.17a-5, 240.17a-12, and 240.18a-7, as applicable.
(9) The records required to be made pursuant to § 240.15c3-3(d)(5) and (o) or § 240.18a-4, as applicable.
(10) The records required to be made pursuant to § 240.15c3-4 and the results of the periodic reviews conducted pursuant to § 240.15c3-4(d).
(11) All notices relating to an internal broker-dealer system provided to the customers of the broker or dealer that sponsors such internal broker-dealer system, as defined in paragraph (a)(16)(ii)(A) of § 240.17a-3. Notices, whether written or communicated through the internal broker-dealer trading system or other automated means, must be preserved under this paragraph (b)(11) if they are provided to all customers with access to an internal broker-dealer system, or to one or more classes of customers. Examples of notices to be preserved under this paragraph (b)(11) include, but are not limited to, notices addressing hours of system operations, system malfunctions, changes to system procedures, maintenance of hardware and software, and instructions pertaining to access to the internal broker-dealer system.
(12) The records required to be made pursuant to § 240.15c3-1e(c)(4)(vi) or § 240.18a-1(e)(2)(iii)(F)(
2
), as applicable.
(13) The written policies and procedures the broker-dealer establishes, documents, maintains, and enforces to assess creditworthiness for the purpose of § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(E), (c)(2)(vi)(F)(
1
) and (
2
), and (c)(2)(vi)(H) or § 240.18a-1(c)(1)(vi)(
2
), as applicable.
(14) A copy of information required to be reported under §§ 242.901 through 242.909 of this chapter (Regulation SBSR).
(15) Copies of documents, communications, disclosures, and notices related to business conduct standards as required under §§ 240.15Fh-1 through 240.15Fh-6 and 240.15Fk-1.
(16) Copies of documents used to make a reasonable determination with respect to special entities, including information relating to the financial status, the tax status, the investment or financing objectives of the special entity as required under section 15F(h)(4)(C) and (5)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10(h)(4)(C) and (5)(A)).
(17) The written probability of default determination, relied upon by such broker or dealer, pursuant to § 242.101(c)(2)(i) or § 242.102(d)(2)(i) of this chapter (Rule 101 or Rule 102 of Regulation M), as applicable.
(c) Every member, broker or dealer subject to § 240.17a-3 must preserve for a period of not less than six years after the closing of any customer's account any account cards or records which relate to the terms and conditions with respect to the opening and maintenance of the account.
(d) Every member, broker or dealer subject to § 240.17a-3 must preserve during the life of the enterprise and of any successor enterprise all partnership articles or, in the case of a corporation, all articles of incorporation or charter, minute books, and stock certificate books (or, in the case of any other form of legal entity, all records such as articles of organization or formation, and minute books used for a purpose similar to those records required for corporations or partnerships), all Forms BD (§ 249.501 of this chapter), all Forms BDW (§ 249.501a of this chapter), all Forms SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b of this chapter), all Forms SBSE-C (§ 249.1600c of this chapter), all Forms SBSE-W (§ 249.1601 of this chapter), all amendments to these forms, and all licenses or other documentation showing the registration of the member, broker or dealer with any securities regulatory authority or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(e) Every member, broker or dealer subject to § 240.17a-3 must maintain and preserve in an easily accessible place:
(1) All records required under § 240.17a-3(a)(12) until at least three years after the associated person's employment and any other connection with the member, broker or dealer has terminated.
(2) All records required under § 240.17a-3(a)(13) until at least three years after the termination of employment or association of those persons required by § 240.17f-2 to be fingerprinted.
(3) All records required pursuant to § 240.17a-3(a)(15) during the life of the enterprise.
(4) All records required pursuant to § 240.17a-3(a)(14) for three years.
(5) All account record information required pursuant to § 240.17a-3(a)(17) and all records required pursuant to
§ 240.17a-3(a)(35), in each case until at least six years after the earlier of the date the account was closed or the date on which the information was collected, provided, replaced, or updated.
(6) Each report which a securities regulatory authority or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has requested or required the member, broker or dealer to make and furnish to it pursuant to an order or settlement, and each securities regulatory authority, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or prudential regulator examination report until three years after the date of the report.
(7) Each compliance, supervisory, and procedures manual, including any updates, modifications, and revisions to the manual, describing the policies and practices of the member, broker or dealer with respect to compliance with applicable laws and rules, and supervision of the activities of each natural person associated with the member, broker or dealer until three years after the termination of the use of the manual.
(8) All reports produced to review for unusual activity in customer accounts until eighteen months after the date the report was generated. In lieu of maintaining the reports, a member, broker or dealer may produce promptly the reports upon request by a representative of a securities regulatory authority. If a report was generated in a computer system that has been changed in the most recent eighteen month period in a manner such that the report cannot be reproduced using historical data in the same format as it was originally generated, the report may be produced by using the historical data in the current system, but must be accompanied by a record explaining each system change which affected the reports. If a report is generated in a computer system that has been changed in the most recent eighteen month period in a manner such that the report cannot be reproduced in any format using historical data, the member, broker or dealer must promptly produce upon request a record of the parameters that were used to generate the report at the time specified by a representative of a securities regulatory authority, including a record of the frequency with which the reports were generated.
(9) All records required pursuant to § 240.17a-3(a)(23) until three years after the termination of the use of the risk management controls documented therein.
(10) All records required pursuant to § 240.17a-3(a)(24), as well as a copy of each Form CRS, until at least six years after such record or Form CRS is created.
(11) The written policies and procedures required pursuant to §§ 240.15Fi-3, 240.15Fi-4, and 240.15Fi-5 until three years after termination of the use of the policies and procedures.
(12)(i) Each written agreement with counterparties on the terms of portfolio reconciliation with those counterparties as required to be created under § 240.15Fi-3(a)(1) and (b)(1) until three years after the termination of the agreement and all transactions governed thereby.
(ii) Security-based swap trading relationship documentation with counterparties required to be created under § 240.15Fi-5 until three years after the termination of such documentation and all transactions governed thereby.
(iii) A record of the results of each audit required to be performed pursuant to § 240.15Fi-5(c) until three years after the conclusion of the audit.
(13) [Reserved]
(14)(i) The written policies and procedures required to be adopted and implemented pursuant to § 248.30(a)(1) of this chapter until three years after the termination of the use of the policies and procedures;
(ii) The written documentation of any detected unauthorized access to or use of customer information, as well as any response to, and recovery from such unauthorized access to or use of customer information required by § 248.30(a)(3) of this chapter for three years from the date when the records were made;
(iii) The written documentation of any investigation and determination made regarding whether notification is required pursuant to § 248.30(a)(4) of this chapter, including the basis for any determination made, any written documentation from the United States Attorney General related to a delay in
notice, as well as a copy of any notice transmitted following such determination, for three years from the date when the records were made;
(iv) The written policies and procedures required to be adopted and implemented pursuant to § 248.30(a)(5)(i) of this chapter until three years after the termination of the use of the policies and procedures;
(v) The written documentation of any contract or agreement entered into pursuant to § 248.30(a)(5) of this chapter until three years after the termination of such contract or agreement; and
(vi) The written policies and procedures required to be adopted and implemented pursuant to § 248.30(b)(2) of this chapter until three years after the termination of the use of the policies and procedures;
(f) Subject to the conditions set forth in this paragraph (f), the records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to § 240.17a-3 and this section may be immediately produced or reproduced by means of an electronic recordkeeping system or by means of micrographic media and be maintained and preserved for the required time in that form.
(1) For purposes of this paragraph (f):
(i) The term
micrographic media
means microfilm or microfiche, or any similar medium;
(ii) The term
electronic recordkeeping system
means a system that preserves records in a digital format in a manner that permits the records to be viewed and downloaded;
(iii) The term
designated executive officer
means a member of senior management of the member, broker, or dealer who has access to and the ability to provide records maintained and preserved on the electronic recordkeeping system either directly or through a
designated specialist
who reports directly or indirectly to the designated executive officer;
(iv) The term
designated officer
means an employee of the member, broker, or dealer who reports directly or indirectly to the designated executive officer and who has access to and the ability to provide records maintained and preserved on the electronic recordkeeping system either directly or through a
designated specialist
who reports directly or indirectly to the designated officer;
(v) The term
designated specialist
means an employee of the member, broker, or dealer who has access to, and the ability to provide records maintained and preserved on, the electronic recordkeeping system; and
(vi) The term
designated third party
means a person that is not affiliated with the member, broker, or dealer who has access to and the ability to provide records maintained and preserved on the electronic recordkeeping system.
(2) An electronic recordkeeping system must:
(i)(A) Preserve a record for the duration of its applicable retention period in a manner that maintains a complete time-stamped audit trail that includes:
(
1
) All modifications to and deletions of the record or any part thereof;
(
2
) The date and time of actions that create, modify, or delete the record;
(
3
) If applicable, the identity of the individual creating, modifying, or deleting the record; and
(
4
) Any other information needed to maintain an audit trail of the record in a way that maintains security, signatures, and data to ensure the authenticity and reliability of the record and will permit re-creation of the original record if it is modified or deleted; or
(B) Preserve the records exclusively in a non-rewriteable, non-erasable format;
(ii) Verify automatically the completeness and accuracy of the processes for storing and retaining records electronically;
(iii) If applicable, serialize the original and duplicate units of the storage media, and time-date the required period of retention for the information placed on such electronic storage media;
(iv) Have the capacity to readily download and transfer copies of a record and its audit trail (if applicable) in both a human readable format and in a reasonably usable electronic format and to readily download and transfer the information needed to locate the electronic record, as required by the staffs of the Commission, the self-regulatory organizations of which the member, broker, or dealer is a member,
or any State securities regulator having jurisdiction over the member, broker, or dealer; and
(v)(A) Include a backup electronic recordkeeping system that meets the other requirements of this paragraph (f) and that retains the records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to § 240.17a-3 and in accordance with this section in a manner that will serve as a redundant set of records if the original electronic recordkeeping system is temporarily or permanently inaccessible; or
(B) Have other redundancy capabilities that are designed to ensure access to the records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to § 240.17a-3 and this section.
(3) A member, broker, or dealer using an electronic recordkeeping system must:
(i) At all times have available, for examination by the staffs of the Commission, the self-regulatory organizations of which the member, broker, or dealer is a member, or any State securities regulator having jurisdiction over the member, broker, or dealer, facilities for immediately producing the records preserved by means of the electronic recordkeeping system and for producing copies of those records.
(ii) Be ready at all times to provide, and immediately provide, any record stored by means of the electronic recordkeeping system that the staffs of the Commission, the self-regulatory organizations of which the member, broker, or dealer is a member, or any State securities regulator having jurisdiction over the member, broker, or dealer may request.
(iii) For a broker-dealer operating pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the member, broker, or dealer must have in place an audit system providing for accountability regarding inputting of records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to § 240.17a-3 and this section to the electronic recordkeeping system and inputting of any changes made to every original and duplicate record maintained and preserved thereby.
(A) At all times, a member, broker, or dealer must be able to have the results of such audit system available for examination by the staffs of the Commission and the self-regulatory organization of which the broker or dealer is a member.
(B) The audit results must be preserved for the time required for the audited records.
(iv) Organize, maintain, keep current, and provide promptly upon request by the staffs of the Commission, the self-regulatory organizations of which the member, broker, or dealer is a member, or any State securities regulator having jurisdiction over the member, broker, or dealer all information necessary to access and locate records preserved by means of the electronic recordkeeping system.
(v)(A) Have at all times filed with the designated examining authority for the member, broker, or dealer the following undertakings with respect to such records signed by either a designated executive officer or designated third party (hereinafter, the “undersigned”):
The undersigned hereby undertakes to furnish promptly to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”), its designees or representatives, any self- regulatory organization of which [Name of the Member, Broker, or Dealer] is a member, or any State securities regulator having jurisdiction over [Name of the Member, Broker, or Dealer], upon reasonable request, such information as is deemed necessary by the staff of the Commission, any self-regulatory organization of which [Name of the Member, Broker, or Dealer] is a member, or any State securities regulator having jurisdiction over [Name of the Member, Broker, or Dealer], and to download copies of a record and its audit trail (if applicable) preserved by means of an electronic recordkeeping system of [Name of the Member, Broker, or Dealer] into both a human readable format and a reasonably usable electronic format in the event of a failure on the part of [Name of the Member, Broker, or Dealer] to download a requested record or its audit trail (if applicable).
Furthermore, the undersigned hereby undertakes to take reasonable steps to provide access to the information preserved by means of an electronic recordkeeping system of [Name of the Member, Broker, or Dealer], including, as appropriate, downloading any record required to be maintained and preserved by [Name of the Member, Broker, or Dealer] pursuant to §§ 240.17a-3 and 240.17a-4 in a format acceptable to the staff of the Commission, any self-regulatory organization of which [Name of the Member, Broker,
or Dealer] is a member, or any State securities regulator having jurisdiction over [Name of the Member, Broker, or Dealer]. Specifically, the undersigned will take reasonable steps to, in the event of a failure on the part of [Name of the Member, Broker, or Dealer] to download the record into a human readable format or a reasonably usable electronic format and after reasonable notice to [Name of the Member, Broker, or Dealer], download the record into a human readable format or a reasonably usable electronic format at the request of the staffs of the Commission, any self-regulatory organization of which [Name of the Member, Broker, or Dealer] is a member, or any State securities regulator having jurisdiction over [Name of the Member, Broker, or Dealer].
(B) A designated executive officer who signs the undertaking required pursuant to paragraph (f)(3)(v)(A) of this section may:
(
1
) Appoint in writing up to two designated officers who will take the steps necessary to fulfill the obligations of the designated executive officer set forth in the undertakings in the event the designated executive officer is unable to fulfill those obligations; and
(
2
) Appoint in writing up to three designated specialists.
(C) The appointment of, or reliance on, a designated officer or designated specialist does not relieve the designated executive officer of the obligations set forth in the undertaking.
(4) A broker-dealer using a micrographic media system must:
(i) At all times have available, for examination by the staffs of the Commission, self-regulatory organizations of which it is a member, and any State securities regulator having jurisdiction over the member, broker, or dealer, facilities for immediate, easily readable projection or production of micrographic media and for producing easily readable images;
(ii) Be ready at all times to provide, and immediately provide, any facsimile enlargement which the staffs of the Commission, any self-regulatory organization of which it is a member, or any State securities regulator having jurisdiction over the member, broker, or dealer may request;
(iii) Store, separately from the original, a duplicate copy of the record stored on any medium acceptable under this section for the time required; and
(iv) Organize and index accurately all information maintained on both original and duplicate storage media.
(A) At all times, a member, broker, or dealer must be able to have such indexes available for examination by the staffs of the Commission, the self-regulatory organizations of which the broker or dealer is a member, and any State securities regulator having jurisdiction over the member, broker or, dealer.
(B) Each index must be duplicated and the duplicate copies must be stored separately from the original copy of each index.
(C) Original and duplicate indexes must be preserved for the time required for the indexed records.
(g) If a person who has been subject to § 240.17a-3 ceases to transact a business in securities directly with others than members of a national securities exchange, or ceases to transact a business in securities through the medium of a member of a national securities exchange, or ceases to be registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
) such person must, for the remainder of the periods of time specified in this section, continue to preserve the records which it theretofore preserved pursuant to this section.
(h) For purposes of transactions in municipal securities by municipal securities brokers and municipal securities dealers, compliance with Rule G-9 of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board or any successor rule will be deemed to be in compliance with this section.
(i)(1)(i) If the records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to the provisions of § 240.17a-3 and this section are prepared or maintained by an outside service bureau, depository, bank, or other recordkeeping service, including a recordkeeping service that owns and operates the servers or other storage devices on which the records are preserved or maintained, (none of which operate pursuant to § 240.17a-3(c)) on behalf of the member, broker, or dealer required to maintain and preserve such records, such outside entity must file with the Commission a written undertaking in a form acceptable to the Commission, signed by a duly authorized person, to the effect that
such records are the property of the member, broker, or dealer required to maintain and preserve such records and will be surrendered promptly on request of the member, broker, or dealer and including the following provision:
With respect to any books and records maintained or preserved on behalf of [Name of the Member, Broker, or Dealer], the undersigned hereby undertakes to permit examination of such books and records at any time or from time to time during business hours by representatives or designees of the Securities and Exchange Commission and to promptly furnish to said Commission or its designee true, correct, complete and current hard copies of any or all or any part of such books and records.
(ii)(A) If the records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to the provisions of § 240.17a-3 and this section are maintained and preserved by means of an electronic recordkeeping system as defined in paragraph (f) of this section utilizing servers or other storage devices that are owned or operated by an outside entity (including an affiliate) and the broker, dealer, or member has
independent access
to the records as defined in paragraph (i)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, the outside entity may file with the Commission the following undertaking signed by a duly authorized person in lieu of the undertaking required under paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section:
The undersigned hereby acknowledges that the records of [name of member, broker, or dealer] are the property of [name of member, broker, or dealer] and [name of member, broker, or dealer] has represented: one, that it is subject to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission governing the maintenance and preservation of certain records, two, that it has independent access to the records maintained by [name of outside entity], and, three, that it consents to [name of outside entity] fulfilling the obligations set forth in this undertaking. The undersigned undertakes that [name of outside entity] will facilitate within its ability, and not impede or prevent, the examination, access, download, or transfer of the records by a representative or designee of the Securities and Exchange Commission as permitted under the law. Further, the undersigned undertakes to facilitate within its ability, and not impede or prevent, a trustee appointed under the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 to liquidate [name of member, broker, or dealer] in accessing, downloading, or transferring the records as permitted under the law.
(B) A broker, dealer, or member utilizing servers or other storage devices that are owned or operated by an outside entity has independent access to records with respect to such outside entity if it can regularly access the records without the need of any intervention of the outside entity and through such access:
(
1
) Permit examination of the records at any time or from time to time during business hours by representatives or designees of the Commission; and
(
2
) Promptly furnish to the Commission or its designee a true, correct, complete and current hard copy of any or all or any part of such records.
(2) An agreement with an outside entity will not relieve such member, broker, or dealer from the responsibility to prepare and maintain records as specified in this section or in § 240.17a-3.
(j) Every member, broker and dealer subject to this section must furnish promptly to a representative of the Commission legible, true, complete, and current copies of those records of the member, broker, or dealer that are required to be preserved under this section, or any other records of the member, broker, or dealer subject to examination under section 17(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
q
(b)) that are requested by the representative of the Commission. The member, broker, or dealer must furnish a record and its audit trail (if applicable) preserved on an electronic recordkeeping system pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section in a reasonably usable electronic format, if requested by a representative of the Commission.
(k)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (k)(2) of this section, upon request of any designee or representative of the Commission or of any self-regulatory organization of which it is a member, every member, broker or dealer subject to this section must request and obtain from its customers documentation regarding an exchange of security futures products for physical securities, including documentation of underlying cash transactions and exchanges. Upon receipt of such documentation, the member, broker or
dealer must promptly provide that documentation to the requesting designee or representative.
(2) This paragraph (k) does not apply to an underlying cash transaction(s) or exchange(s) that was effected through a member, broker or dealer registered with the Commission and is of a type required to be recorded pursuant to § 240.17a-3.
(l) Records for the most recent two year period required to be made pursuant to § 240.17a-3(f) and paragraphs (b)(4) and (e)(7) of this section which relate to an office shall be maintained at the office to which they relate. If an office is a private residence where only one associated person (or multiple associated persons who reside at that location and are members of the same immediate family) regularly conducts business, and it is not held out to the public as an office nor are funds or securities of any customer of the member, broker or dealer handled there, the member, broker or dealer need not maintain records at that office, but the records must be maintained at another location within the same State as the member, broker or dealer may select. Rather than maintain the records at each office, the member, broker or dealer may choose to produce the records promptly at the request of a representative of a securities regulatory authority at the office to which they relate or at another location agreed to by the representative.
(m) When used in this section:
(1) The term
office
has the meaning set forth in § 240.17a-3(g)(1).
(2) The term
principal
has the meaning set forth in § 240.17a-3(g)(2).
(3) The term
securities regulatory authority
has the meaning set forth in § 240.17a-3(g)(3).
(4) The term
associated person
has the meaning set forth in § 240.17a-3(g)(4).
(5) The term
business as such
includes security-based swap activity.

# Cross Reference:
For interpretative releases applicable to § 240.17a-4, see No. 3040 and No. 8024 in tabulation, part 241 of this chapter.
[13 FR 8212, Dec. 22, 1948]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 240.17a-4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 240.17a-5
Reports to be made by certain brokers and dealers.
This section applies to the following types of entities: Except as provided in this introductory text, a broker or dealer, including an
OTC derivatives dealer
as that term is defined in § 240.3b-12 registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
); a broker or dealer, other than an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act that is also a security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10); and a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act that is also a major-security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act. Section 240.18a-7 (rather than this section) applies to the following types of entities: A security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is not also a broker or dealer, other than an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; a security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is also an OTC derivatives dealer; and a major security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is not also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act.
(a)
Monthly and quarterly reports.
(1)(i) Every broker or dealer subject to this paragraph (a) who clears transactions or carries customer accounts must file with the Commission Part I of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) within 10 business days after the end of each month.
(ii) Every broker or dealer subject to this paragraph (a) who clears transactions or carries customer accounts and every broker or dealer that is registered as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant under section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10) must file with the Commission an executed Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) within 17 business days after the end of the calendar quarter and within 17 business
days after the end of the fiscal year of the broker or dealer where that date is not the end of a calendar quarter. Certain of such brokers or dealers must file with the Commission an executed Part IIA in lieu thereof if the nature of their business is limited as described in the instructions to Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter).
(iii) Every broker or dealer that neither clears transactions nor carries customer accounts and that is not registered as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant under section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10) must file with the Commission an executed Part IIA of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) within 17 business days after the end of each calendar quarter and within 17 business days after the end of the fiscal year of the broker or dealer where that date is not the end of a calendar quarter.
(iv) Upon receiving written notice from the Commission or the examining authority designated pursuant to section 17(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q(d)) (“designated examining authority”), a broker or dealer who receives such notice must file with the Commission on a monthly basis, or at such times as will be specified, an executed Part II or Part IIA of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), and such other financial or operational information as will be required by the Commission or the designated examining authority.
(2) The reports provided for in this paragraph (a) that must be filed with the Commission will be considered filed when received at the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC, and the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the broker or dealer has its principal place of business. All reports filed pursuant to this paragraph (a) will be deemed confidential for the purposes of section 24(b) of the Act.
(3) The provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section will not apply to a member of a national securities exchange or a registered national securities association if said exchange or association maintains records containing the information required by Part I, Part II, or Part IIA of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), as to such member, and transmits to the Commission a copy of the applicable parts of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) as to such member, pursuant to a plan, the procedures and provisions of which have been submitted to and declared effective by the Commission. Any such plan filed by a national securities exchange or a registered national securities association may provide that when a member is also a member of one or more national securities exchanges, or of one or more national securities exchanges and a registered national securities association, the information required to be submitted with respect to any such member may be submitted by only one specified national securities exchange or registered national securities association. For the purposes of this section, a plan filed with the Commission by a national securities exchange or a registered national securities association will not become effective unless the Commission, having due regard for the fulfillment of the Commission's duties and responsibilities under the provisions of the Act, declares the plan to be effective. Further, the Commission, in declaring any such plan effective, may impose such terms and conditions relating to the provisions of the plan and the period of its effectiveness as may be deemed necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or to carry out the Commission's duties and responsibilities under the Act.
(4) Every broker or dealer subject to this paragraph (a) must file Form Custody (§ 249.639 of this chapter) with its designated examining authority within 17 business days after the end of each calendar quarter and within 17 business days after the end of the fiscal year of the broker or dealer where that date is not the end of a calendar quarter. The designated examining authority must maintain the information obtained through the filing of Form Custody and must promptly transmit that information to the Commission at such time as it transmits the applicable part of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) as required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(5) Broker-dealers that have been authorized by the Commission to compute net capital pursuant to § 240.15c3-
1e must file the following additional reports with the Commission:
(i) For each product for which the broker or dealer calculates a deduction for market risk other than in accordance with § 240.15c3-1e(b)(1) or (3), the product category and the amount of the deduction for market risk within 17 business days after the end of the month;
(ii) A graph reflecting, for each business line, the daily intra-month value at risk within 17 business days after the end of the month;
(iii) The aggregate value at risk for the broker or dealer within 17 business days after the end of the month;
(iv) For each product for which the broker or dealer uses scenario analysis, the product category and the deduction for market risk within 17 business days after the end of the month;
(v) Credit risk information on derivatives exposures within 17 business days after the end of the month, including:
(A) Overall current exposure;
(B) Current exposure (including commitments) listed by counterparty for the 15 largest exposures;
(C) The ten largest commitments listed by counterparty;
(D) The broker's or dealer's maximum potential exposure listed by counterparty for the 15 largest exposures;
(E) The broker's or dealer's aggregate maximum potential exposure;
(F) A summary report reflecting the broker's or dealer's current and maximum potential exposures by credit rating category; and
(G) A summary report reflecting the broker's or dealer's current exposure for each of the top ten countries to which the broker or dealer is exposed (by residence of the main operating group of the counterparty);
(vi) Regular risk reports supplied to the broker's or dealer's senior management in the format described in the application, within 17 business days after the end of the month;
(vii) [Reserved]
(viii) A report identifying the number of business days for which the actual daily net trading loss exceeded the corresponding daily VaR within 17 business days after the end of each calendar quarter; and
(ix) The results of backtesting of all internal models used to compute allowable capital, including VaR and credit risk models, indicating the number of backtesting exceptions within 17 business days after the end of the calendar quarter.
(6) Upon written application by a broker or dealer to its designated examining authority, the designated examining authority may extend the time for filing the information required by this paragraph (a). The designated examining authority for the broker or dealer will maintain, in the manner prescribed in § 240.17a-1, a record of each extension granted.
(b)
Report filed upon termination of membership interest.
(1) If a broker or dealer holding any membership interest in a national securities exchange or registered national securities association ceases to be a member in good standing of such exchange or association, such broker or dealer must, within two business days after such event, file with the Commission Part II or Part IIA of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) as determined by the standards set forth in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section as of the date of such event. The report must be filed at the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC, and with the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the broker or dealer has its principal place of business;
provided, however,
that such report need not be made or filed if the Commission, upon written request or upon its own motion, exempts such broker or dealer, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, from such requirement;
provided, further,
that the Commission may, upon request of the broker or dealer, grant extensions of time for filing the report specified herein for good cause shown.
(2) The broker or dealer must attach to the report required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section an oath or affirmation that to the best knowledge and belief of the person making the oath or affirmation the information contained in the report is true and correct. The oath or affirmation must be made before a person duly authorized to administer such oaths or affirmations. If the
broker or dealer is a sole proprietorship, the oath or affirmation must be made by the proprietor; if a partnership, by a general partner; if a corporation, by a duly authorized officer; or if a limited liability company or limited liability partnership, by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, manager, managing member, or those members vested with management authority for the limited liability company or limited liability partnership.
(3) For the purposes of this paragraph (b) “membership interest” will include the following: full membership, allied membership, associated membership, floor privileges, and any other interest that entitles a broker or dealer to the exercise of any privilege on an exchange or with an association.
(4) For the purposes of this paragraph (b), any broker or dealer will be deemed to have ceased to be a member in good standing of such exchange or association when the broker or dealer has resigned, withdrawn, or been suspended or expelled from a membership interest in such exchange or association, or has directly or through any associated person sold or entered into an agreement for the sale of a membership interest which would on consummation thereof result in the termination of the broker's or dealer's membership interest in such exchange or association.
(5) Whenever any national securities exchange or registered national securities association takes any action which causes any broker or dealer which is a member of such exchange or association to cease to be a member in good standing of such exchange or association or when such exchange or association learns of any action by such member of any other person which causes such broker or dealer to cease to be a member in good standing of such exchange or association, such exchange or association will report such action promptly to the Commission, furnishing information as to the circumstances surrounding the event, and will send a copy of such notification to the broker or dealer and notify such broker or dealer of its responsibilities under this paragraph (b).
(c)
Customer Statements
—(1)
Who must furnish the statements.
Every broker or dealer must file with the Commission at its principal office in Washington, DC, with the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the broker or dealer has its principal place of business, and with each national securities exchange and registered national securities association of which it is a member, and must send to its customers the statements prescribed by paragraphs (c) (2) and (3) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section or if the activities of such broker or dealer are limited to any one or combination of the following and are conducted in the manner prescribed herein:
(i) As introducing broker or dealer, the forwarding of all the transactions of customers of the introducing broker or dealer to a clearing broker or dealer on a fully disclosed basis:
Provided,
That such clearing broker or dealer reflects such transactions on its books and records in accounts it carries in the names of such customers and that the introducing broker or dealer does not hold funds or securities for, or owe funds or securities to, customers other than funds and securities promptly forwarded to the clearing broker or dealer or to customers;
(ii) The prompt forwarding of subscriptions for securities to the issuer, underwriter or other distributor of such securities and of receiving checks, drafts, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness payable solely to the issuer, underwriter or other distributor who delivers the security directly to the subscriber or to a custodian bank, if the broker or dealer does not otherwise hold funds or securities for, or owe money or securities to, customers;
(iii) The sale and redemption of redeemable shares of registered investment companies or the solicitation of share accounts of savings and loan associations and otherwise qualified to maintain net capital of no less than what is required under § 240.15c3-1(a)(2)(iv) or the offering to extend any credit to or participate in arranging a loan for a customer to purchase insurance in connection with the sale of redeemable shares of registered investment companies; or
(iv) Conduct which would exempt the broker or dealer from the provisions of
§ 240.17a-13 by reason of the provisions of paragraph (a) of that section.
(2)
Audited statements to be furnished.
Audited statements must be furnished within 105 days after the end of the fiscal year of the broker or dealer. The statements may be furnished 30 days after that time limit has expired if the broker or dealer sends them with the next mailing of the broker's or dealer's quarterly customer statements of account. In that case, the broker or dealer must include a statement in that mailing of the amount of the broker's or dealer's net capital and its required net capital in accordance with § 240.15c3-1, as of a fiscal month end that is within the 75-day period immediately preceding the date the statements are sent to customers. The audited statements must include the following:
(i) A Statement of Financial Condition with appropriate notes prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles which must be audited if the financial statements furnished in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section are required to be certified;
(ii) A footnote containing a statement of the amount of the broker's or dealer's net capital and its required net capital, computed in accordance with § 240.15c3-1. Such statement must include summary financial statements of subsidiaries consolidated pursuant to Appendix C of § 240.15c3-1, where material, and the effect thereof on the net capital and required net capital of the broker or dealer;
(iii) A statement indicating that the Statement of Financial Condition of the most recent financial report of the broker or dealer under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) of this section is available for examination at the principal office of the broker or dealer and at the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the broker or dealer has its principal place of business; and
(iv) If, in connection with the most recent annual reports required under paragraph (d) of this section, the report of the independent public accountant required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section covering the report of the broker or dealer required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B)(
1
) of this section identifies one or more
material weaknesses,
a statement by the broker or dealer that one or more
material weaknesses
have been identified and that a copy of the report of the independent public accountant required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section is currently available for the customer's inspection at the principal office of the Commission in Washington, DC, and the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the broker or dealer has its principal place of business.
(3)
Unaudited statements to be furnished.
Unaudited statements dated 6 months after the date of the audited statements required to be furnished by paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section must be furnished within 65 days after the date of the unaudited statements. The unaudited statements may be furnished 70 days after that time limit has expired if the broker or dealer sends them with the next mailing of the broker's or dealer's quarterly customer statements of account. In that case, the broker or dealer must include a statement in that mailing of the amount of the broker's or dealer's net capital and its required net capital in accordance with § 240.15c3-1, as of a fiscal month end that is within the 75-day period immediately preceding the date the statements are sent to customers. The unaudited statements must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(4)
Definition of “customer.”
For purposes of this paragraph (c), the term
customer
includes any person other than:
(i) Another broker or dealer who is exempted by paragraph (c)(1) of this section;
(ii) A general, special or limited partner or director or officer of a broker or dealer; or
(iii) Any person to the extent that such person has a claim for property or funds which by contract, agreement or understanding, or by operation of law, is part of the capital of the broker or dealer or is subordinated to the claims of creditors of the broker or dealer, for or with whom a broker or dealer has effected a securities transaction in a particular month, which month must be either the month preceding the balance sheet date or the month following the
balance sheet date in which the statement is sent.
(iv) The term “customer” also includes any person for whom the broker or dealer holds securities for safekeeping or as collateral or for whom the broker or dealer carries a free credit balance in the month in which customers are determined for purposes of this paragraph (c).
(5)
Exemption from sending certain financial information to customers.
A broker or dealer is not required to send to its customers the statements prescribed by paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section if the following conditions are met:
(i) The broker or dealer semi-annually sends its customers, at the times it otherwise is required to send its customers the statements prescribed by paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section, a financial disclosure statement that includes:
(A) The amount of the broker's or dealer's net capital and its required net capital in accordance with § 240.15c3-1, as of the date of the statements prescribed by paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section;
(B) To the extent required under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, a description of the effect on the broker's or dealer's net capital and required net capital of the consolidation of the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries or affiliates consolidated pursuant to Appendix C of § 240.15c3-1; and
(C) Any statements otherwise required by paragraphs (c)(2)(iii) and (iv) of this section.
(ii) The financial disclosure statement is given prominence in the materials delivered to customers of the broker or dealer and includes an appropriate caption stating that customers may obtain the statements prescribed by paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section, at no cost, by:
(A) Accessing the broker's or dealer's Website at the specified Internet Uniform Resource Locator (URL); or
(B) Calling the broker's or dealer's specified toll-free telephone number.
(iii) Not later than 90 days after the date of the audited statements prescribed by paragraph (c)(2) of this section and not later than 75 days after the date of the unaudited statements prescribed by paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the broker or dealer publishes the statements on its Website, accessible by hyperlinks in either textual or button format, which are separate, prominent links, are clearly visible, and are placed in each of the following locations:
(A) On the broker's or dealer's Website home page; and
(B) On each page at which a customer can enter or log on to the broker's or dealer's Website; and
(C) If the Websites for two or more brokers or dealers can be accessed from the same home page, on the home page of the Website of each broker or dealer.
(iv) The broker or dealer maintains a toll-free telephone number that customers can call to request a copy of the statements prescribed by paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section.
(v) If a customer requests a copy of the statements prescribed by paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section, the broker or dealer sends it promptly at no cost to the customer.
(d)
Annual reports.
(1)(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section, every broker or dealer registered under section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
) must file annually:
(A) A financial report as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and
(B)(
1
) If the broker or dealer did not claim it was exempt from § 240.15c3-3 throughout the most recent fiscal year or the broker or dealer is subject to § 240.15c3-3(p), a compliance report as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section executed by the person who makes the oath or affirmation under paragraph (e)(2) of this section; or
(
2
) If the broker or dealer did claim it was exempt from § 240.15c3-3 throughout the most recent fiscal year and the broker or dealer is not subject to § 240.15c3-3(p), an exemption report as described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section executed by the person who makes the oath or affirmation under paragraph (e)(2) of this section;
(C) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, a report prepared by an independent public accountant, under the engagement provisions in paragraph (g) of this section, covering each report required to be
filed under paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.
(ii) The reports required to be filed under this paragraph (d) must be as of the same fiscal year end each year, unless a change is approved in writing by the designated examining authority for the broker or dealer under paragraph (n) of this section. A copy of the written approval must be sent to the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC, and the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the broker or dealer has its principal place of business.
(iii) A broker or dealer succeeding to and continuing the business of another broker or dealer need not file the reports under this paragraph (d) as of a date in the fiscal year in which the succession occurs if the predecessor broker or dealer has filed reports in compliance with this paragraph (d) as of a date in such fiscal year.
(iv) A broker or dealer that is a member of a national securities exchange, has transacted a business in securities solely with or for other members of a national securities exchange, and has not carried any margin account, credit balance, or security for any person who is defined as a
customer
in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, is not required to file reports under this paragraph (d).
(2)
Financial report.
The financial report must contain:
(i) A Statement of Financial Condition, a Statement of Income, a Statement of Cash Flows, a Statement of Changes in Stockholders' or Partners' or Sole Proprietor's Equity, and a Statement of Changes in Liabilities Subordinated to Claims of General Creditors. The statements must be prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and must be in a format that is consistent with the statements contained in Part II or Part IIA of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), as applicable. If the Statement of Financial Condition filed in accordance with instructions to Part II or Part IIA of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), as applicable, is not consolidated, a summary of financial data, including the assets, liabilities, and net worth or stockholders' equity, for subsidiaries not consolidated in the applicable Part II or Part IIA as filed by the broker or dealer must be included in the notes to the financial statements reported on by the independent public accountant.
(ii) Supporting schedules that include, from Part II or Part IIA of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), a Computation of Net Capital under § 240.15c3-1, a Computation for Determination of Customer Reserve Requirements under § 240.15c3-3a (Exhibit A of § 240.15c3-3), a Computation for Determination of PAB Requirements under Exhibit A of § 240.15c3-3, a Computation for Determination of Security-Based Swap Customer Reserve Requirements under § 240.15c3-3b (Exhibit B of § 240.15c3-3), Information Relating to the Possession or Control Requirements for Customers under § 240.15c3-3, and Information Relating to the Possession or Control Requirements for Security-Based Swap Customers under § 240.15c3-3, as applicable.
(iii) If any of the Computation of Net Capital under § 240.15c3-1, the Computation for Determination of Customer Reserve Requirements Under Exhibit A of § 240.15c3-3, or the Computation for Determination of Security-Based Swap Customer Reserve Requirements under Exhibit B of § 240.15c3-3, as applicable, in the financial report is materially different from the corresponding computation in the most recent Part II or Part IIA of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), as applicable, filed by the broker or dealer pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, a reconciliation, including appropriate explanations, between the computation in the financial report and the computation in the most recent Part II or Part IIA of Form X-17A-5, as applicable, filed by the broker or dealer. If no material differences exist, a statement so indicating must be included in the financial report.
(3)
Compliance report.
(i) The compliance report must contain:
(A) Statements as to whether:
(
1
) The broker or dealer has established and maintained
Internal Control Over Compliance
as that term is defined in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section;
(
2
) The Internal Control Over Compliance of the broker or dealer was effective during the most recent fiscal year;
(
3
) The Internal Control Over Compliance of the broker or dealer was effective as of the end of the most recent fiscal year;
(
4
) The broker or dealer was in compliance with §§ 240.15c3-1, 240.15c3-3(e) and, if applicable, 240.15c3-3(p)(3) as of the end of the most recent fiscal year; and
(
5
) The information the broker or dealer used to state whether it was in compliance with §§ 240.15c3-1, 240.15c3-3(e) and, if applicable, 240.15c3-3(p)(3) was derived from the books and records of the broker or dealer.
(B) If applicable, a description of each identified material weakness in the Internal Control Over Compliance of the broker or dealer during the most recent fiscal year.
(C) If applicable, a description of an instance of non-compliance with § 240.15c3-1, § 240.15c3-3(e), or, if applicable, § 240.15c3-3(p)(3) as of the end of the most recent fiscal year.
(ii) The term
Internal Control Over Compliance
means internal controls that have the objective of providing the broker or dealer with reasonable assurance that non-compliance with § 240.15c3-1, § 240.15c3-3, § 240.17a-13, or any rule of the designated examining authority of the broker or dealer that requires account statements to be sent to the customers of the broker or dealer (an “Account Statement Rule”) will be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
(iii) The broker or dealer is not permitted to conclude that its Internal Control Over Compliance was effective during the most recent fiscal year if there were one or more material weaknesses in its Internal Control Over Compliance during the most recent fiscal year. The broker or dealer is not permitted to conclude that its Internal Control Over Compliance was effective as of the end of the most recent fiscal year if there were one or more material weaknesses in its internal control as of the end of the most recent fiscal year. A
material weakness
is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in Internal Control Over Compliance such that there is a reasonable possibility that non-compliance with § 240.15c3-1, § 240.15c3-3(e), or § 240.15c3-3(p)(3) will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis or that non-compliance to a material extent with § 240.15c3-3, except for paragraph (e), § 240.15c3-3(p), except for paragraph (p)(3), § 240.17a-13, or any Account Statement Rule will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. A deficiency in Internal Control Over Compliance exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow the management or employees of the broker or dealer, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect on a timely basis non-compliance with § 240.15c3-1, § 240.15c3-3, or § 240.17a-13, or any Account Statement Rule.
(4)
Exemption report.
The exemption report must contain the following statements made to the best knowledge and belief of the broker or dealer:
(i) A statement that identifies the provisions in § 240.15c3-3(k) under which the broker or dealer claimed an exemption from § 240.15c3-3;
(ii) A statement that the broker or dealer met the identified exemption provisions in § 240.15c3-3(k) throughout the most recent fiscal year without exception or that it met the identified exemption provisions in § 240.15c3-3(k) throughout the most recent fiscal year except as described under paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section; and
(iii) If applicable, a statement that identifies each exception during the most recent fiscal year in meeting the identified exemption provisions in § 240.15c3-3(k) and that briefly describes the nature of each exception and the approximate date(s) on which the exception existed.
(5) The annual reports must be filed not more than sixty (60) calendar days after the end of the fiscal year of the broker or dealer.
(6)(i)
Filing with the Commission.
The annual reports must be filed with the Commission electronically on EDGAR in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in 17 CFR 232.11 (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T) and must be filed in accordance with the requirements of 17 CFR part 232 (Regulation S-T). The annual reports must be provided as an Interactive Data File in accordance with 17 CFR 232.405 (Rule 405 of Regulation S-T).
(ii)
Filing with other organizations.
The annual reports also must be filed
with the designated examining authority for the broker or dealer and with the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (“SIPC”) if the broker or dealer is a member of SIPC. Copies of the reports must be provided to all self-regulatory organizations of which the broker or dealer is a member, unless the self-regulatory organization by rule waives this requirement.
(e)
Nature and form of reports.
The annual reports filed pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section must be prepared and filed in accordance with the following requirements:
(1)(i) The broker or dealer is not required to engage an independent public accountant to provide the reports required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section if, since the date of the registration of the broker or dealer under section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o) or of the previous annual reports filed under paragraph (d) of this section:
(A) The securities business of the broker or dealer has been limited to acting as broker (agent) for a single issuer in soliciting subscriptions for securities of that issuer, the broker has promptly transmitted to the issuer all funds and promptly delivered to the subscriber all securities received in connection with the transaction, and the broker has not otherwise held funds or securities for or owed money or securities to customers; or
(B) The securities business of the broker or dealer has been limited to buying and selling evidences of indebtedness secured by mortgage, deed of trust, or other lien upon real estate or leasehold interests, and the broker or dealer has not carried any margin account, credit balance, or security for any securities customer.
(ii) A broker or dealer that files an annual report under paragraph (d) of this section that is not covered by a report prepared by an independent public accountant must include in the oath or affirmation required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section a statement of the facts and circumstances relied upon as a basis for exemption from the requirement that the annual report filed under paragraph (d) of this section be covered by reports prepared by an independent public accountant.
(2) The broker or dealer must attach to the financial report an oath or affirmation that, to the best knowledge and belief of the person making the oath or affirmation:
(i) The financial report is true and correct; and
(ii) Neither the broker or dealer, nor any partner, officer, director, or equivalent person, as the case may be, has any proprietary interest in any account classified solely as that of a customer. The oath or affirmation must be made before a person duly authorized to administer such oaths or affirmations. If the broker or dealer is a sole proprietorship, the oath or affirmation must be made by the proprietor; if a partnership, by a general partner; if a corporation, by a duly authorized officer; or if a limited liability company or limited liability partnership, by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, manager, managing member, or those members vested with management authority for the limited liability company or limited liability partnership.
(iii) The broker or dealer must keep the original oath or affirmation for a period of not less than six years, the first two years in an easily accessible place and in accordance with the requirements of § 240.17a-4 of this chapter (Rule 17a-4) under the Exchange Act.
(3) The annual reports filed under paragraph (d) of this section may be filed as:
(i) One public document; or
(ii) Two documents:
(A) A document consisting of the Statement of Financial Condition, the notes to the Statement of Financial Condition, and the report of the independent public accountant covering the Statement of Financial Condition, which is not confidential; and
(B) A document containing the balance of the annual reports for which confidential treatment may be requested and which will be deemed confidential for the purposes of section 24(b) of the Act. However, the annual reports, including the confidential portions, will be available for official use by any official or employee of the U.S. or any State, by national securities exchanges and registered national securities associations of which the broker or
dealer filing such a report is a member, by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and by any other person if the Commission authorizes disclosure of the annual reports to that person. Nothing contained in this paragraph (e)(3) may be construed to be in derogation of the rules of any registered national securities association or national securities exchange that give to customers of a broker or dealer the right, upon request to the broker or dealer, to obtain information relative to its financial condition.
(4) The broker or dealer must file with SIPC a report on the SIPC annual general assessment reconciliation or exclusion from membership forms that contains such information and is in such format as determined by SIPC by rule and approved by the Commission.
(f)(1)
Qualifications of independent public accountant.
The independent public accountant must be qualified and independent in accordance with § 210.2-01 of this chapter and the independent public accountant must be registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board if required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
(2)
Statement regarding independent public accountant.
(i) Every broker or dealer that is required to file annual reports under paragraph (d) of this section must file no later than December 10 of each year (or 30 calendar days after the effective date of its registration as a broker or dealer, if earlier) a statement as prescribed in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section with the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC, the regional office of the Commission for the region in which its principal place of business is located, and the principal office of the designated examining authority for the broker or dealer. The statement must be dated no later than December 1 (or 20 calendar days after the effective date of its registration as a broker or dealer, if earlier). If the engagement of an independent public accountant is of a continuing nature, providing for successive engagements, no further filing is required. If the engagement is for a single year, or if the most recent engagement has been terminated or amended, a new statement must be filed by the required date.
(ii) The statement must be headed “Statement regarding independent public accountant under Rule 17a-5(f)(2)” and must contain the following information and representations:
(A) Name, address, telephone number, and registration number of the broker or dealer.
(B) Name, address, and telephone number of the independent public accountant.
(C) The date of the fiscal year of the annual reports of the broker or dealer covered by the engagement.
(D) Whether the engagement is for a single year or is of a continuing nature.
(E) A representation that the independent public accountant has undertaken the items enumerated in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.
(F) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section, a representation that the broker or dealer agrees to allow representatives of the Commission or its designated examining authority, if requested in writing for purposes of an examination of the broker or dealer, to review the audit documentation associated with the reports of the independent public accountant filed under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph, “audit documentation” has the meaning provided in standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The Commission anticipates that, if requested, it will accord confidential treatment to all documents it may obtain from an independent public accountant under this paragraph to the extent permitted by law.
(G) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section, a representation that the broker or dealer agrees to allow the independent public accountant to discuss with representatives of the Commission and its designated examining authority, if requested in writing for purposes of an examination of the broker or dealer, the findings associated with the reports of the independent public accountant filed under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section.
(iii) If a broker or dealer neither clears transactions nor carries customer accounts, the broker or dealer is
not required to include the representations in paragraphs (f)(2)(ii)(F) and (G) of this section.
(iv) Any broker or dealer that is not required to file reports prepared by an independent public accountant under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section must file a statement required under paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section indicating the date as of which the unaudited reports will be prepared.
(3)
Replacement of accountant.
A broker or dealer must file a notice that must be received by the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC, the regional office of the Commission for the region in which its principal place of business is located, and the principal office of the designated examining authority for the broker or dealer not more than 15 business days after:
(i) The broker or dealer has notified the independent public accountant that provided the reports the broker or dealer filed under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section for the most recent fiscal year that the independent public accountant's services will not be used in future engagements; or
(ii) The broker or dealer has notified an independent public accountant that was engaged to provide the reports required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section that the engagement has been terminated; or
(iii) An independent public accountant has notified the broker or dealer that the independent public accountant would not continue under an engagement to provide the reports required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section; or
(iv) A new independent public accountant has been engaged to provide the reports required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section without any notice of termination having been given to or by the previously engaged independent public accountant.
(v) The notice must include:
(A) The date of notification of the termination of the engagement or of the engagement of the new independent public accountant, as applicable; and
(B) The details of any issues arising during the 24 months (or the period of the engagement, if less than 24 months) preceding the termination or new engagement relating to any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, auditing scope or procedure, or compliance with applicable rules of the Commission, which issues, if not resolved to the satisfaction of the former independent public accountant, would have caused the independent public accountant to make reference to them in the report of the independent public accountant. The issues required to be reported include both those resolved to the former independent public accountant's satisfaction and those not resolved to the former accountant's satisfaction. Issues contemplated by this section are those that occur at the decision-making level—that is, between principal financial officers of the broker or dealer and personnel of the accounting firm responsible for rendering its report. The notice must also state whether the accountant's report filed under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section for any of the past two fiscal years contained an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion or was qualified as to uncertainties, audit scope, or accounting principles, and must describe the nature of each such adverse opinion, disclaimer of opinion, or qualification. The broker or dealer must also request the former independent public accountant to furnish the broker or dealer with a letter addressed to the Commission stating whether the independent public accountant agrees with the statements contained in the notice of the broker or dealer and, if not, stating the respects in which the independent public accountant does not agree. The broker or dealer must file three copies of the notice and the accountant's letter, one copy of which must be signed by the sole proprietor, a general partner, or a duly authorized corporate, limited liability company, or limited liability partnership officer or member, as appropriate, and by the independent public accountant, respectively.
(g)
Engagement of independent public accountant.
The independent public accountant engaged by the broker or dealer to provide the reports required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section must, as part of the engagement, undertake the following, as applicable:
(1) To prepare an independent public accountant's report based on an examination of the financial report required to be filed by the broker or dealer under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) of this section in accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; and
(2)(i) To prepare an independent public accountant's report based on an examination of the statements required under paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(A)(
2
) through (
5
) of this section in the compliance report required to be filed by the broker or dealer under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B)(
1
) of this section in accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; or
(ii) To prepare an independent public accountant's report based on a review of the statements required under paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section in the exemption report required to be filed by the broker or dealer under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B)(
2
) of this section in accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
(h)
Notification of non-compliance or material weakness.
If, during the course of preparing the independent public accountant's reports required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section, the independent public accountant determines that the broker or dealer is not in compliance with § 240.15c3-1, § 240.15c3-3, or § 240.17a-13 or any rule of the designated examining authority of the broker or dealer that requires account statements to be sent to the customers of the broker or dealer, as applicable, or the independent public accountant determines that any material weaknesses (as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section) exist, the independent public accountant must immediately notify the chief financial officer of the broker or dealer of the nature of the non-compliance or material weakness. If the notice from the accountant concerns an instance of non-compliance that would require a broker or dealer to provide a notification under § 240.15c3-1, § 240.15c3-3, or § 240.17a-11, or if the notice concerns a material weakness, the broker or dealer must provide a notification in accordance with § 240.15c3-1, § 240.15c3-3, or § 240.17a-11, as applicable, and provide a copy of the notification to the independent public accountant. If the independent public accountant does not receive the notification within one business day, or if the independent public accountant does not agree with the statements in the notification, then the independent public accountant must notify the Commission and the designated examining authority within one business day. The report from the accountant must, if the broker or dealer failed to file a notification, describe any instances of non-compliance that required a notification under § 240.15c3-1, § 240.15c3-3, or § 240.17a-11, or any material weaknesses. If the broker or dealer filed a notification, the report from the accountant must detail the aspects of the notification of the broker or dealer with which the accountant does not agree.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
h

# ):
The attention of the broker or dealer and the independent public accountant is called to the fact that under § 240.17a-11(a)(1), among other things, a broker or dealer whose net capital declines below the minimum required pursuant to § 240.15c3-1 must give notice of such deficiency that same day in accordance with § 240.17a-11(h) and the notice must specify the broker or dealer's net capital requirement and its current amount of net capital. The attention of the broker or dealer and accountant also is called to the fact that under § 240.15c3-3(i), if a broker or dealer fails to make a reserve bank account or special reserve account deposit, as required by § 240.15c3-3, the broker or dealer must immediately notify the Commission and the regulatory authority for the broker or dealer, which examines such broker or dealer as to financial responsibility and must promptly thereafter confirm such notification in writing.
(i)
Reports of the independent public accountant required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section
—(1)
Technical requirements.
The independent public accountant's reports must:
(i) Be dated;
(ii) Be signed;
(iii) Indicate the city and state where issued; and
(iv) Identify without detailed enumeration the items covered by the reports.
(2)
Representations.
The independent public accountant's reports must:
(i) State whether the examinations or review, as applicable, were made in
accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board;
(ii) Identify any examination and, if applicable, review procedures deemed necessary by the independent public accountant under the circumstances of the particular case that have been omitted and the reason for their omission.
(iii) Nothing in this section may be construed to imply authority for the omission of any procedure that independent public accountants would ordinarily employ in the course of an examination or review made for the purpose of expressing the opinions or conclusions required under this section.
(3)
Opinion or conclusion to be expressed.
The independent public accountant's reports must state clearly:
(i) The opinion of the independent public accountant with respect to the financial report required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) of this section and the accounting principles and practices reflected in that report;
(ii) The opinion of the independent public accountant with respect to the financial report required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) of this section, as to the consistency of the application of the accounting principles, or as to any changes in those principles, that have a material effect on the financial statements; and
(iii)(A) The opinion of the independent public accountant with respect to the statements required under paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(A)(
2
) through (
5
) of this section in the compliance report required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B)(
1
) of this section; or
(B) The conclusion of the independent public accountant with respect to the statements required under paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section in the exemption report required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B)(
2
) of this section.
(4)
Exceptions.
Any matters to which the independent public accountant takes exception must be clearly identified, the exceptions must be specifically and clearly stated, and, to the extent practicable, the effect of each such exception on any related items contained in the annual reports required under paragraph (d) of this section must be given.
(j) [Reserved]
(k)
Supplemental reports.
(1) Each broker or dealer that computes certain of its capital charges in accordance with § 240.15c3-1e shall file concurrently with the annual reports a supplemental report on management controls, which must be prepared by a registered public accounting firm (as that term is defined in section 2(a)(12) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7201
et seq.
)). The supplemental report must indicate the results of the accountant's review of the internal risk management control system established and documented by the broker or dealer in accordance with § 240.15c3-4. This review shall be conducted in accordance with procedures agreed upon by the broker or dealer and the registered public accounting firm conducting the review. The agreed upon procedures are to be performed and the report is to be prepared in accordance with the rules promulgated by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The purpose of the review is to confirm that the broker or dealer has established, documented, and is in compliance with the internal risk management controls established in accordance with § 240.15c3-4. Before commencement of the review and no later than December 10 of each year, the broker or dealer must file a statement with the Commission that includes:
(i) A description of the agreed-upon procedures agreed to by the broker or dealer and the registered public accounting firm; and
(ii) A notice describing changes in those agreed-upon procedures, if any. If there are no changes, the broker or dealer should so indicate.
(2) The supplemental report and statement to be filed under paragraph (k)(1) of this section must be filed with the Commission electronically on EDGAR in the manner described by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in 17 CFR 232.11 (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T), and must be filed in accordance with the requirements of 17 CFR part 232 (Regulation S-T). The supplemental report and statement must be provided
as an Interactive Data File in accordance with 17 CFR 232.405 (Rule 405 of Regulation S-T).
(l)
Use of certain statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
At the request of any broker or dealer who is an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or a sponsor or depositor of such a registered investment company who effects transactions in securities only with, or on behalf of, such registered investment company, the Commission will accept the financial statements filed pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Act or section 30 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder as a filing pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. Such a filing must be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this section for any calendar year in which such financial statements are filed, provided that the statements so filed meet the requirements of the other rules under which they are filed with respect to time of filing and content.
(m)
Extentions and exemptions.
(1) A broker's or dealer's designated examining authority may extend the period under paragraph (d) of this section for filing annual reports. The designated examining authority for the broker or dealer must maintain, in the manner prescribed in § 240.17a-1, a record of each extension granted.
(2) Any “bank” as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c) and any “insurance company” as defined in section 3(a)(19) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c) registered as a broker or dealer to sell variable contracts but exempt from § 240.15c3-1 shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
(3) On written request of any national securities exchange, registered national securities association, broker or dealer, or on its own motion, the Commission may grant an extension of time or an exemption from any of the requirements of this section either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions.
(4) The provisions of § 240.17a-5 will not apply to a broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15(b)(11)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b)(11)(A)) that is not a member of either a national securities exchange pursuant to section 6(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(a)) or a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-3(a)).
(n)
Notification of change of fiscal year.
(1) In the event any broker or dealer finds it necessary to change its fiscal year, it must file, with the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC, the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the broker or dealer has its principal place of business and the principal office of the designated examining authority for such broker or dealer, a notice of such change.
(2) Such notice must contain a detailed explanation of the reasons for the change. Any change in the filing period for the annual report must be approved in writing by the designated examining authority of the broker or dealer
(o)
Compliance with § 240.17a-12.
An OTC derivatives dealer may comply with § 240.17a-5 by complying with the provisions of § 240.17a-12.
(p)
Signatures.
Any signature required by this section may be a manual or electronic signature. The signing process for an electronic signature must, at a minimum:
(1) Require the signatory to present a physical, logical, or digital credential that authenticates the signatory's individual identity;
(2) Reasonably provide for non-repudiation of the signature;
(3) Provide that the signature be attached, affixed, or otherwise logically associated with the signature page or document being signed; and
(4) Include a timestamp to record the date and time of the signature.

# Cross Reference:
For interpretative release applicable to § 240.17a-5, see No. 51 in tabulation, part 211 of this chapter.
[40 FR 59713, Dec. 30, 1975]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 240.17a-5, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 240.17a-6
Right of national securities exchange, national securities association, registered clearing agency or the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board to destroy or dispose of documents.
(a) Any document kept by or on file with a national securities exchange, national securities association, registered clearing agency or the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board pursuant to the Act or any rule or regulation thereunder may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of by such exchange, association, clearing agency or the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board at the end of five years or at such earlier date as is specified in a plan for the destruction or disposition of any such documents if such plan has been filed with the Commission by such exchange, association, clearing agency or the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board and has been declared effective by the Commission.
(b) Such plan may provide that any such document may be transferred to microfilm or other recording medium after such time as specified in the plan and thereafter be maintained and preserved in that form. If a national securities exchange, association, clearing agency or the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board uses microfilm or other recording medium it shall:
(1) Be ready at all times to provide, and immediately provide, easily readable projection of the microfilm or other recording medium and easily readable hard copy thereof;
(2) Provide indexes permitting the immediate location of any such document on the microfilm or other recording medium; and
(3) In the case of microfilm, store a duplicate copy of the microfilm separately from the original microfilm for the time required.
(c) For the purposes of this rule a plan filed with the Commission by a national securities exchange, association, clearing agency or the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall not become effective unless the Commission, having due regard for the public interest and for the protection of investors, declares the plan to be effective. The Commission in its declaration may limit the applications, reports, and documents as to which it shall apply, and may impose any other terms and conditions to the plan and to the period of its effectiveness which it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
[45 FR 79426, Dec. 1, 1980]
§ 240.17a-7
Records of non-resident brokers and dealers.
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, each non-resident broker or dealer registered or applying for registration pursuant to section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, shall keep, maintain, and preserve, at a place within the United States designated in a notice from him as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, true, correct, complete and current copies of the books and records which he is required to make, keep current, maintain or preserve pursuant to any provision of any rule or regulation of the Commission adopted under the act.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each non-resident broker or dealer subject to this section shall furnish to the Commission a written notice specifying the address of the place within the United States where the copies of the books and records required to be kept and preserved by him pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section are located. Each non-resident broker or dealer registered or applying for registration when this section becomes effective shall file such notice within 30 days after such rule becomes effective. Each non-resident broker or dealer who files an application for registration after this section becomes effective shall file such notice with such application for registration.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, a non-resident broker or dealer subject to this section need not keep or preserve within the United States copies of the books and records referred to in said paragraph (a) of this section, if:
(1) Such broker or dealer files with the Commission, at the time or within the period provided by paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a written undertaking in form acceptable to the Commission
and signed by a person thereunto duly authorized, to furnish to the Commission, upon demand, at its principal office in Washington, DC, or at any Regional Office of the Commission designated in such demand, true, correct, complete and current copies of any or all of the books and records which he is required to make, keep current, maintain, or preserve pursuant to any provision of any rule or regulation of the Commission adopted under the act, or any part of such books and records which may be specified in such demand. Such undertaking shall be in substantially the following form:
The undersigned hereby undertakes to furnish at his own expense to the Securities and Exchange Commission at its principal office in Washington, DC, or at any Regional Office of said Commission specified in a demand for copies of books and records made by or on behalf of said Commission, true, correct, complete, and current copies of any or all, or any part, of the books and records which the undersigned is required to make, keep current or preserve pursuant to any provision of any rule or regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This undertaking shall be suspended during any period when the undersigned is making, keeping current, and preserving copies of all of said books and records at a place within the United States in compliance with § 240.17a-7 (Rule X-17A-7) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This undertaking shall be binding upon the undersigned and the heirs, successors and assigns of the undersigned, and the written irrevocable consents and powers of attorney of the undersigned, its general partners and managing agents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission shall extend to and cover any action to enforce same.
and
(2) Such broker or dealer furnishes to the Commission at his own expense within 14 days after written demand therefor forwarded to him by registered mail at his last address of record filed with the Commission and signed by the Secretary of the Commission or such other person as the Commission may authorize to act in its behalf, true, correct, complete and current copies of any or all books and records which such broker or dealer is required to make, keep current or preserve pursuant to any provision of any rule or regulation of the Commission adopted under the act, or any part of such books and records which may be specified in said written demand. Such copies shall be furnished to the Commission at its principal office in Washington, DC, or at any Regional Office of the Commission which may be specified in said written demand.
(c) The provisions of this section shall not apply to a broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15(b)(11)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b)(11)(A)) that is not a member of either a national securities exchange pursuant to section 6(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(a)) or a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-3(a)).
(d) For purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply:
(1) The term
broker
shall have the meaning set out in section 3(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(2) The term
dealer
shall have the meaning set out in section 3(a)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(3) The term
non-resident broker or dealer
shall mean (i) in the case of an individual, one who resides in or has his principal place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States; (ii) in the case of a corporation, one incorporated in or having its principal place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States; (iii) in the case of a partnership of other unincorporated organization or association, one having its principal place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
[21 FR 5524, July 24, 1956, as amended at 59 FR 5945, Feb. 9, 1994; 67 FR 58300, Sept. 13, 2002; 73 FR 32228, June 5, 2008]
§ 240.17a-8
Financial recordkeeping and reporting of currency and foreign transactions.
Every registered broker or dealer who is subject to the requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970 shall comply with the reporting, recordkeeping and record retention requirements of chapter X of title 31 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Where chapter X of title 31 of the Code of Federal Regulations and § 240.17a-4 of this chapter require
the same records or reports to be preserved for different periods of time, such records or reports shall be preserved for the longer period of time.
[46 FR 61455, Dec. 17, 1981, as amended at 76 FR 11328, Mar. 2, 2011]
§ 240.17a-9T
Records to be made and retained by certain exchange members, brokers and dealers.
This section applies to every member, broker or dealer registered pursuant to Section 15 of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78
o
), that is required to maintain, as of December 29, December 30 and December 31, 1999, minimum net capital of $250,000 pursuant to § 240.15c3-1(a)(2)(i).
(a) You must make before January 1, 2000, for each of December 29, December 30 and December 31, 1999, separate copies of the blotters pursuant to § 240.17a-3(a)(1).
(b) You must make before January 1, 2000, as of the close of business for each of December 29, December 30 and December 31, 1999, a separate copy of the securities record or ledger pursuant to § 240.17a-3(a)(5).
(c) You must preserve these records for a period of not less than one year.
(d) The provisions of § 240.17a-4(i) shall apply as if part of this § 240.17a-9T.
(e) You may preserve these records in any format that is acceptable and in compliance with the conditions described in § 240.17a-4(f).
(f) You must furnish promptly to a representative of the Commission such legible, true and complete copies of those records, as may be requested.
(g) This temporary section will expire on July 1, 2001.
[64 FR 42029, Aug. 3, 1999]
§ 240.17a-10
Report on revenue and expenses.
(a)(1) Every broker or dealer exempted from the filing requirements of paragraph (a) of § 240.17a-5 shall, not later than 17 business days after the close of each calendar year, file the Facing Page, a Statement of Income (Loss) and balance sheet from Part IIA of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) and Schedule I of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) for such calendar year.
(2) Every broker or dealer subject to the filing requirements of paragraph (a) of § 240.17a-5 shall submit Schedule I of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) with its Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) for the calendar quarter ending December 31 of each year.
(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to a member of a national securities exchange or a registered national securities association which maintains records containing the information required by Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) as to each of its members, and which transmits to the Commission a copy of the record as to each such member, pursuant to a plan the procedures and provisions of which have been submitted to and declared effective by the Commission. Any such plan filed by a national securities exchange or a registered national securities association may provide that when a member is also a member of one or more national securities exchanges, or of one or more national securities exchanges and a registered national securities association, the information required to be submitted with respect to any such member may be transmitted by only one specified national securities exchange or registered national securities association. For the purpose of this section, a plan filed with the Commission by a national securities exchange or a registered national securities association shall not become effective unless the Commission, having due regard for the public interest, for the protection of investors, and for the fulfillment of the Commission's functions under the provisions of the Act, declares the plan to be effective. Further, the Commission, in declaring any such plan effective, may impose such terms and conditions relating to the provisions of the plan and the period of its effectiveness as may be deemed necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or to carry out the Commission's duties under the Act.
(c) Individual reports filed by, or on behalf of, brokers, dealers, or members of national securities exchanges pursuant to this section are to be considered nonpublic information, except in cases where the Commission determines that
it is in the public interest to direct otherwise.
(d) In the event any broker or dealer finds that it cannot file the annual report required by paragraph (a) of this section within the time specified without undue hardship, it may file with the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC, prior to the date upon which the report is due, an application for an extension of time to a specified date which shall not be later than 60 days after the close of the calendar year for which the report is to be made. The application shall state the reasons for the requested extension and shall contain an agreement to file the report on or before the specified date.
(Sec. 17, 48 Stat. 897; 15 U.S.C. 78q)
[33 FR 10390, July 20, 1968, as amended at 35 FR 3804, Feb. 27, 1970; 35 FR 7644, May 16, 1970; 37 FR 13615, July 12, 1972; 40 FR 59717, Dec. 30, 1975; 42 FR 23789, May 10, 1977; 46 FR 60193, Dec. 9, 1981]
§ 240.17a-11
Notification provisions for brokers and dealers.
This section applies to the following types of entities: Except as provided in this introductory text, a broker or dealer, including an
OTC derivatives dealer
as that term is defined in § 240.3b-12, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
); a broker or dealer, other than an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act that is also a security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10); and a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act that is also a major-security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act. Section 240.18a-8 (rather than this section) applies to the following types of entities: A security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is not also a broker or dealer, other than an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; a security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is also an OTC derivatives dealer; and a major security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is not also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act.
(a)(1) Every broker or dealer whose net capital declines below the minimum amount required pursuant to § 240.15c3-1, or is insolvent as that term is defined in § 240.15c3-1(c)(16), must give notice of such deficiency that same day in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. The notice must specify the broker or dealer's net capital requirement and its current amount of net capital. If a broker or dealer is informed by its designated examining authority or the Commission that it is, or has been, in violation of § 240.15c3-1 and the broker or dealer has not given notice of the capital deficiency under this section, the broker or dealer, even if it does not agree that it is, or has been, in violation of § 240.15c3-1, must give notice of the claimed deficiency, which notice may specify the broker's or dealer's reasons for its disagreement.
(2) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, an OTC derivatives dealer or broker or dealer permitted to compute net capital pursuant to the alternative method of § 240.15c3-1e must also provide notice if its tentative net capital falls below the minimum amount required pursuant to § 240.15c3-1. The notice must specify the tentative net capital requirements, and current amount of net capital and tentative net capital, of the OTC derivatives dealer or the broker or dealer permitted to compute net capital pursuant to the alternative method of § 240.15c3-1e.
(b) Every broker or dealer must send notice promptly (but within 24 hours) after the occurrence of the events specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section:
(1) If a computation made by a broker or dealer subject to the aggregate indebtedness standard of § 240.15c3-1 shows that its aggregate indebtedness is in excess of 1,200 percent of its net capital; or
(2) If a computation made by a broker or dealer, which has elected the alternative standard of § 240.15c3-1, shows that its net capital is less than 5 percent of aggregate debit items computed in accordance with § 240.15c3-3a
Exhibit A: Formula for Determination Reserve Requirement of Brokers and Dealers under § 240.15c3-3; or
(3) If a computation made by a broker or dealer pursuant to § 240.15c3-1 shows that its total net capital is less than 120 percent of the broker's or dealer's required minimum net capital, or if a computation made by an OTC derivatives dealer pursuant to § 240.15c3-1 shows that its total tentative net capital is less than 120 percent of the dealer's required minimum tentative net capital.
(4) The occurrence of the fourth and each subsequent backtesting exception under § 240.15c3-1f(e)(1)(iv) during any 250 business day measurement period.
(5) If a computation made by a broker or dealer pursuant to § 240.15c3-1 shows that the total amount of money payable against all securities loaned or subject to a repurchase agreement or the total contract value of all securities borrowed or subject to a reverse repurchase agreement is in excess of 2500 percent of its tentative net capital;
provided,
however, that for purposes of this leverage test transactions involving government securities, as defined in section 3(a)(42) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(42)), must be excluded from the calculation;
provided
further, however, that a broker or dealer will not be required to send the notice required by this paragraph (c)(5) if it reports monthly its securities lending and borrowing and repurchase and reverse repurchase activity (including the total amount of money payable against securities loaned or subject to a repurchase agreement and the total contract value of securities borrowed or subject to a reverse repurchase agreement) to its designated examining authority in a form acceptable to its designated examining authority.
(c) Every broker or dealer that fails to make and keep current the books and records required by § 240.17a-3, must give notice of this fact that same day in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section, specifying the books and records which have not been made or which are not current. The broker or dealer must also transmit a report in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section within 48 hours of the notice stating what the broker or dealer has done or is doing to correct the situation.
(d) Whenever any broker or dealer discovers, or is notified by an independent public accountant under § 240.17a-12(i)(2), of the existence of any material inadequacy as defined in § 240.17a-12(h)(2), or whenever any broker or dealer discovers, or is notified by an independent public accountant under § 240.17a-5(h), of the existence of any material weakness as defined in § 240.17a-5(d)(3)(iii), the broker or dealer must:
(1) Give notice, in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section, of the material inadequacy or material weakness within 24 hours of the discovery or notification of the material inadequacy or material weakness; and
(2) Transmit a report in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section, within 48 hours of the notice stating what the broker or dealer has done or is doing to correct the situation.
(e) [Reserved]
(f) If a broker-dealer fails to make in its special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers a deposit, as required by § 240.15c3-3(p), the broker-dealer must give immediate notice in writing in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.
(g) Every national securities exchange or national securities association that learns that a broker or dealer has failed to send notice or transmit a report as required by this section, even after being advised by the securities exchange or the national securities association to send notice or transmit a report, must immediately give notice of such failure in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.
(h) Every notice or report required to be given or transmitted by this section must be given or transmitted to the principal office of the Commission in Washington DC and the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the broker or dealer has its principal place of business, or to an email address provided on the Commission's website, and to the designated examining authority of which such broker or dealer is a member, and to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(CFTC) if the broker or dealer is registered as a futures commission merchant with the CFTC. The report required by paragraph (c) or (d)(2) of this section may be transmitted by overnight delivery.
(i) Other notice provisions relating to the Commission's financial responsibility or reporting rules are contained in §§ 240.15c3-1, 240.15c3-1d, 240.15c3-3, 240.17a-5, and 240.17a-12.
(j) The provisions of this section will not apply to a broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15(b)(11)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b)(11)(A)) that is not a member of either a national securities exchange pursuant to section 6(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(a)) or a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-3(a)).
[58 FR 37657, July 13, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 5945, Feb. 9, 1994; 63 FR 59401, Nov. 3, 1998; 67 FR 58300, Sept. 13, 2002; 69 FR 34472, June 21, 2004; 73 FR 32228, June 5, 2008; 78 FR 51907, Aug. 21, 2013; 78 FR 51933, Aug. 21, 2013; 84 FR 68655, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 240.17a-12
Reports to be made by certain OTC derivatives dealers.
(a)
Filing of quarterly reports.
(1) This paragraph (a) shall apply to every OTC derivatives dealer registered pursuant to Section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o).
(i) Every OTC derivatives dealer shall file Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) within 17 business days after the end of each calendar quarter and within 17 business days after the date selected for the annual audit of financial statements where said date is other than the end of the calendar quarter.
(ii) Upon receiving from the Commission written notice that additional reporting is required, an OTC derivatives dealer shall file monthly, or at such times as shall be specified, Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) and such other financial or operational information as shall be required by the Commission.
(2) The reports provided for in this paragraph (a) must be filed with the Commission electronically on the SEC eFOCUS system. All reports filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed to be confidential for the purposes of section 24(b) of the Act.
(3) Upon written application by an OTC derivatives dealer to the Commission, the Commission may extend the time for filing the information required by this paragraph (a). The written application shall be filed with the Commission at its principal office in Washington DC.
(b)
Annual filing of audited financial statements.
(1)(i) Every OTC derivatives dealer registered pursuant to Section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o) shall file annually, on a calendar or fiscal year basis, a report which shall be audited by a certified public accountant. Reports filed pursuant to this paragraph (b) shall be as of the same fixed or determinable date each year, unless a change is approved in writing by the Commission.
(ii) An OTC derivatives dealer succeeding to and continuing the business of another OTC derivatives dealer need not file a report under this paragraph (b) as of a date in the fiscal or calendar year in which the succession occurs if the predecessor OTC derivatives dealer has filed a report in compliance with this paragraph (b) as of a date in such fiscal or calendar year.
(2) The annual audit report shall contain a Statement of Financial Condition (in a format and on a basis which is consistent with the total reported on the Statement of Financial Condition contained in Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), Part II, a Statement of Income, a Statement of Cash Flows, a Statement of Changes in Stockholders' or Partners' or Sole Proprietor's Equity, and a Statement of Changes in Liabilities Subordinated to Claims of General Creditors. Such statements shall be in a format which is consistent with such statements as contained in Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), Part II. If the Statement of Financial Condition filed in accordance with instructions to Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), Part II, is not consolidated, a summary of financial data for subsidiaries not consolidated in the Part II Statement of Financial Condition as filed by the OTC derivatives dealer shall be included in the notes to the consolidated statement of financial condition reported on by the certified
public accountant. The summary financial data shall include the assets, liabilities, and net worth or stockholders' equity of the unconsolidated subsidiaries.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# )(2).
If there is other comprehensive income in the period(s) presented, the financial report must contain a Statement of Comprehensive Income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X of this chapter) in place of a Statement of Income.
(3) Supporting schedules shall include, from Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), a Computation of Net Capital under § 240.15c3-1.
(4) A reconciliation, including appropriate explanations, of the Computation of Net Capital under § 240.15c3-1 contained in the audit report with the broker's or dealer's corresponding unaudited most recent Part II filing shall be filed with the report when material differences exist. If no material differences exist, a statement so indicating shall be filed.
(5) The annual audit report shall be filed not more than sixty days after the date of the financial statements.
(6) The annual audit report shall be filed with the Commission electronically on EDGAR in the manner described by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in 17 CFR 232.11 (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T), and must be filed in accordance with the requirements of 17 CFR part 232 (Regulation S-T). The annual audit report must be provided as an Interactive Data File in accordance with 17 CFR 232.405 (Rule 405 of Regulation S-T).
(c)
Nature and form of reports.
The financial statements filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be prepared and filed in accordance with the following requirements:
(1) An audit shall be conducted by a certified public accountant who shall be in fact independent as defined in paragraph (f) of this section, and it shall give an opinion covering the statements filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Attached to the report shall be an oath or affirmation that, to the best knowledge and belief of the person making such oath or affirmation, the financial statements and schedules are true and correct and neither the OTC derivatives dealer, nor any partner, officer, or director, as the case may be, has any significant interest in any counterparty or in any account classified solely as that of a counterparty. The oath or affirmation shall be made before a person duly authorized to administer such oaths or affirmations. If the OTC derivatives dealer is a sole proprietorship, the oath or affirmation shall be made by the proprietor; if a partnership, by a general partner; or if a corporation, by a duly authorized officer.
(3) The OTC derivatives dealer must keep the original oath or affirmation for a period of not less than six years, the first two years in an easily accessible place and in accordance with the requirements of § 240.17a-4 (Rule 17a-4 under the Exchange Act).
(4) An OTC derivatives dealer may request confidential treatment for all of the statements filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section and such statements will be deemed confidential for the purposes of section 24(b) of the Act. However, such statements shall be available for use by any official or employee of the United States or by any other person if the Commission authorizes disclosure of such information to that person.
(d)
Qualification of accountants.
The Commission will not recognize any person as a certified public accountant who is not duly registered and in good standing as such under the laws of the State of his principal office.
(e)
Designation of accountant.
(1) Every OTC derivatives dealer shall file no later than December 10 of each year with the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC a statement indicating the existence of an agreement, dated no later than December 1 of that year, with a certified public accountant covering a contractual commitment to conduct the OTC derivatives dealer's annual audit during the following calendar year.
(2) If the agreement is of a continuing nature, providing for successive yearly audits, no further filing is required. If the agreement is for a single audit, or if the continuing agreement previously filed has been terminated or amended, a new statement must be filed by the required date.
(3) The statement shall be headed “Notice pursuant to § 240.17a-12(e)” and shall contain the following information:
(i) Name, address, telephone number, and registration number of the OTC derivatives dealer;
(ii) Name, address, and telephone number of the certified public accounting firm; and
(iii) The audit date of the OTC derivatives dealer for the year covered by the agreement.
(4) Notwithstanding the date of filing specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, every OTC derivatives dealer shall file the notice provided for in paragraph (e) of this section within 30 days following the effective date of registration as an OTC derivatives dealer.
(f)
Independence of accountant.
A certified public accountant shall be independent in accordance with the provisions of § 210.2-01(b) and (c) of this chapter.
(g)
Replacement of accountant.
(1) An OTC derivatives dealer shall file a notice that must be received by the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC not more than 15 business days after:
(i) The OTC derivatives dealer has notified the certified public accountant whose opinion covered the most recent financial statements filed under paragraph (b) of this section that the certified public accountant's services will not be utilized in future engagements; or
(ii) The OTC derivatives dealer has notified a certified public accountant who was engaged to give an opinion covering the financial statements to be filed under paragraph (b) of this section that the engagement has been terminated; or
(iii) A certified public accountant has notified the OTC derivatives dealer that it will not continue under an engagement or give an opinion covering the financial statements to be filed under paragraph (b) of this section; or
(iv) A new certified public accountant has been engaged to give an opinion covering the financial statements to be filed under paragraph (b) of this section without any notice of termination having been given to or by the previously engaged certified public accountant.
(2) Such notice shall state the date of notification of the termination of the engagement of the former certified public accountant or the engagement of the new certified public accountant, as applicable, and the details of any disagreements existing during the 24 months (or the period of the engagement, if less) preceding such termination or new engagement relating to any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, auditing scope or procedure, or compliance with applicable rules of the Commission, which disagreements, if not resolved to the satisfaction of the former certified public accountant, would have caused the former certified public accountant to make reference to them in connection with the report on the subject matter of the disagreements. The disagreements required to be reported in response to the preceding sentence include both those resolved to the former certified public accountant's satisfaction and those not resolved to the former certified public accountant's satisfaction. Disagreements contemplated by this section are those that occur at the decision-making level (
i.e.,
between principal financial officers of the OTC derivatives dealer and personnel of the certified public accounting firm responsible for rendering its report). The notice shall also state whether the certified public accountant's report on the financial statements for any of the past two years contained an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion or was qualified as to uncertainties, audit scope, or accounting principles, and describe the nature of each such adverse opinion, disclaimer of opinion, or qualification. The OTC derivatives dealer shall also request the former certified public accountant to furnish the OTC derivatives dealer with a letter addressed to the Commission stating whether the former certified public accountant agrees with the statements contained in the notice of the OTC derivatives dealer and, if not, stating the respects in which the former certified public accountant does not agree. The OTC derivatives dealer shall file three copies
of the notice and the accountant's letter, one copy of which shall be signed by the sole proprietor, a general partner, or a duly authorized corporate, limited liability company, or limited liability partnership officer or member, as appropriate, and by the independent public accountant, respectively.
(h)
Audit objectives.
(1) The audit shall be made in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Auditing Standards and shall include a review of the accounting system, the internal accounting controls, and procedures for safeguarding securities including appropriate tests thereof for the period since the date of the prior audited financial statements. The audit shall include all procedures necessary under the circumstances to enable the certified public accountant to express an opinion on the statement of financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the Computation of Net Capital under § 240.15c3-1. The scope of the audit and review of the accounting system, the internal accounting controls, and procedures for safeguarding securities shall be sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that any material inadequacies existing at the date of the examination in the following are disclosed:
(i) The accounting system;
(ii) The internal accounting controls; and
(iii) The procedures for safeguarding securities.
(2) A material inadequacy in the accounting system, internal accounting controls, procedures for safeguarding securities, and practices and procedures referred to in paragraph (h) (1) of this section that must be reported under these audit objectives includes any condition which has contributed substantially to or, if appropriate corrective action is not taken, could reasonably be expected to:
(i) Inhibit an OTC derivatives dealer from promptly completing securities transactions or promptly discharging its responsibilities to counterparties, other brokers and dealers, or creditors;
(ii) Result in material financial loss;
(iii) Result in material misstatements of the OTC derivatives dealer's financial statements; or
(iv) Result in violations of the Commission's recordkeeping or financial responsibility rules to an extent that could reasonably be expected to result in the conditions described in paragraphs (h)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(i)
Extent and timing of audit procedures.
(1) The extent and timing of audit procedures are matters for the certified public accountant to determine on the basis of its review and evaluation of existing internal controls and other audit procedures performed in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Auditing Standards and the audit objectives set forth in paragraph (h) of this section.
(2) If, during the course of the audit or interim work, the certified public accountant determines that any material inadequacies exist in the accounting system, internal accounting controls, procedures for safeguarding securities, or as otherwise defined in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, then the certified public accountant shall call it to the attention of the chief financial officer of the OTC derivatives dealer, who shall inform the Commission by telegraphic or facsimile notice within 24 hours thereafter as set forth in § 240.17a-11. The OTC derivatives dealer shall also furnish the certified public accountant with a copy of said notice to the Commission by telegram or facsimile within the same 24 hour period. If the certified public accountant fails to receive such notice from the OTC derivatives dealer within that 24 hour period, or if the certified public accountant disagrees with the statements contained in the notice of the OTC derivatives dealer, the certified public accountant shall inform the Commission by report of material inadequacy within 24 hours thereafter as set forth in § 240.17a-11. Such report from the certified public accountant shall, if the OTC derivatives dealer failed to file a notice, describe any material inadequacies found to exist. If the OTC derivatives dealer filed a notice, the certified public accountant shall file a report detailing the aspects, if any, of the OTC derivatives dealer's notice with which the certified public accountant does not agree.
(j)
Accountant's report, general provisions
—(1)
Technical requirements.
The certified public accountant's report shall be dated; be signed; indicate the city and State where issued; and identify without detailed enumeration the financial statements and schedules covered by the report.
(2)
Representations as to the audit.
The certified public accountant's report shall state that the audit was made in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Auditing Standards; state whether the certified public accountant reviewed the procedures followed for safeguarding securities; and designate any auditing procedures deemed necessary by the certified public accountant under the circumstances of the particular case that have been omitted, and the reason for their omission. Nothing in this section shall be construed to imply authority for the omission of any procedure which certified public accountants would ordinarily employ in the course of an audit made for the purpose of expressing the opinions required under this section.
(3)
Opinion to be expressed.
The certified public accountant's report shall state clearly the opinion of the certified public accountant:
(i) In respect of the financial statements and schedules covered by the report and the accounting principles and practices reflected therein; and
(ii) As to the consistency of the application of the accounting principles, or as to any changes in such principles which have a material effect on the financial statements.
(4)
Exceptions.
Any matters to which the certified public accountant takes exception shall be clearly identified, explained, and, to the extent practicable, the effect of each such exception on the related financial statements shall be provided.
(5)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the terms
audit
(or
examination
),
accountant's report,
and
certified
shall have the meanings given in § 210.1-02 of this chapter.
(k)
Accountant's report on material inadequacies and reportable conditions.
The OTC derivatives dealer shall file concurrently with the annual audit report a supplemental report by the certified public accountant describing any material inadequacies or any matter that would be deemed to be a reportable condition under U.S. Generally Accepted Auditing Standards that are unresolved as of the date of the certified public accountant's report. The report shall also describe any material inadequacies found to have existed since the date of the previous audit. The supplemental report shall indicate any corrective action taken or proposed by the OTC derivatives dealer with regard to any identified material inadequacies or reportable conditions. If the audit did not disclose any material inadequacies or reportable conditions, the supplemental report shall so state. This supplemental report shall be filed with the Commission electronically on EDGAR in the manner described by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in 17 CFR 232.11 (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T), and must be filed in accordance with the requirements of 17 CFR part 232 (Regulation S-T). This supplemental report must be provided as an Interactive Data File in accordance with 17 CFR 232.405 (Rule 405 of Regulation S-T).
(l)
Accountant's report on management controls.
(1) The OTC derivatives dealer shall file concurrently with the annual audit report a supplemental report by the certified public accountant indicating the results of the certified public accountant's review of the OTC derivatives dealer's internal risk management control system with respect to the requirements of § 240.15c3-4. This review shall be conducted in accordance with procedures agreed to by the OTC derivatives dealer and the certified public accountant conducting the review. The purpose of the review is to confirm that the OTC derivatives dealer has established, documented, and maintained an internal risk management control system in accordance with § 240.15c3-4, and is in compliance with that internal risk management control system. This supplemental report shall be filed with the Commission electronically on EDGAR in the manner described by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in 17 CFR 232.11 (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T) and must be filed in accordance with the requirements of 17 CFR part 232 (Regulation S-T). This supplemental report must be
provided as an Interactive Data File in accordance with 17 CFR 232.405 (Rule 405 of Regulation S-T).
(2) The agreed-upon procedures are to be performed, and the report is to be prepared, in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Attestation Standards.
(3) Prior to the commencement of the initial review, every OTC derivatives dealer shall file the procedures to be performed pursuant to paragraph (l)(1) of this section with the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC. Prior to the commencement of any subsequent review, every OTC derivatives dealer shall file with the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC a notice of changes to the agreed-upon procedures.
(m)
Accountant's report on inventory pricing and modeling.
(1) The OTC derivatives dealer shall file concurrently with the annual audit report a supplemental report by the certified public accountant indicating the results of the certified public accountant's review of the broker's or dealer's inventory pricing and modeling procedures. This review shall be conducted in accordance with procedures agreed to by the OTC derivatives dealer and by the certified public accountant conducting the review. The purpose of the review is to confirm that the pricing and modeling procedures relied upon by the OTC derivatives dealer conform to the procedures submitted to the Commission as part of its OTC derivatives dealer application, and that the procedures comply with the qualitative and quantitative standards set forth in § 240.15c3-1f. This supplemental report shall be filed with the Commission electronically on EDGAR in the manner described by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in 17 CFR 232.11 (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T), and must be filed in accordance with the requirements of 17 CFR part 232 (Regulation S-T). This supplemental report must be provided as an Interactive Data File in accordance with 17 CFR 232.405 (Rule 405 of Regulation S-T).
(2) The agreed-upon procedures are to be performed and the report is to be prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Attestation Standards.
(3) Every OTC derivatives dealer shall file prior to the commencement of the initial review, the procedures to be performed pursuant to paragraph (m)(1) of this section with the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC. Prior to the commencement of each subsequent review, every OTC derivatives dealer shall file with the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC notice of changes in the agreed-upon procedures.
(n)
Extensions and exemptions.
Upon the written request of the OTC derivatives dealer, or on its own motion, the Commission may grant an extension of time or an exemption from any of the requirements of this section either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions.
(o)
Notification of change of fiscal year.
(1) In the event any OTC derivatives dealer finds it necessary to change its fiscal year, it must file a notice of such change with the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC.
(2) Such notice shall contain a detailed explanation of the reasons for the change. Any change in the filing period for the audit report must be approved by the Commission.
(p) Unless otherwise stated in this rule, for purposes of filing requirements as described in § 240.17a-12, these filings shall be deemed to have been accomplished upon receipt at the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC.
(q) Any signature required by this section may be a manual or electronic signature. The signing process for an electronic signature must, at a minimum:
(1) Require the signatory to present a physical, logical, or digital credential that authenticates the signatory's individual identity;
(2) Reasonably provide for non-repudiation of the signature;
(3) Provide that the signature be attached, affixed, or otherwise logically associated with the signature page or document being signed; and
(4) Include a timestamp to record the date and time of the signature.
[63 FR 59401, Nov. 3, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 34494, June 21, 2004; 83 FR 50223, Oct. 4, 2018; 84 FR 68656, Dec. 16, 2019; 86 FR 31116, June 11, 2021; 90 FR 7367, Jan. 21, 2025]
§ 240.17a-13
Quarterly security counts to be made by certain exchange members, brokers, and dealers.
(a) This section shall apply to every member of a national securities exchange who transacts a business in securities directly with or for others than members of a national securities exchange, every broker or dealer (other than a member) who transacts a business in securities through the medium of any member of a national securities exchange, and every broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; except that a broker or dealer meeting all of the following conditions shall be exempt from the provisions of this section:
(1) His dealer transactions (as principal for his own account) are limited to the purchase, sale, and redemption of redeemable shares of registered investment companies or of interests or participations in an insurance company separate account, whether or not registered as an investment company; except that a broker or dealer transacting business as a sole proprietor may also effect occasional transactions in other securities for his own account with or through another registered broker-dealer;
(2) His transactions as broker (agent) are limited to:
(i) The sale and redemption of redeemable securities of registered investment companies or of interests or participations in an insurance company separate account, whether or not registered as an investment company;
(ii) The solicitation of share accounts for savings and loan associations insured by an instrumentality of the United States; and
(iii) The sale of securities for the account of a customer to obtain funds for immediate reinvestment in redeemable securities of registered investment companies; and
(3) He promptly transmits all funds and delivers all securities received in connection with his activities as a broker or dealer, and does not otherwise hold funds or securities for, or owe money or securities to, customers.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this rule shall not apply to any insurance company which is a registered broker-dealer, and which otherwise meets all of the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, solely by reason of its participation in transactions that are a part of the business of insurance, including the purchasing, selling, or holding of securities for or on behalf of such company's general and separate accounts.
(b) Any member, broker, or dealer who is subject to the provisions of this rule shall at least once in each calendar quarter-year:
(1) Physically examine and count all securities held including securities that are the subjects of repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements;
(2) Account for all securities in transfer, in transit, pledged, loaned, borrowed, deposited, failed to receive, failed to deliver, subject to repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements or otherwise subject to his control or direction but not in his physical possession by examination and comparison of the supporting detail records with the appropriate ledger control accounts;
(3) Verify all securities in transfer, in transit, pledge, loaned, borrowed, deposited, failed to receive, failed to deliver, subject to repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements or otherwise subject to his control or direction but not in his physical possession, where such securities have been in said status for longer than thirty days;
(4) Compare the results of the count and verification with his records; and
(5) Record on the books and records of the member, broker, or dealer all unresolved differences setting forth the security involved and date of comparison in a security count difference account no later than 7 business days after the date of each required quarterly security examination, count, and verification in accordance with the requirements provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
Provided, however,
That no examination, count, verification, and comparison for the purpose of this section shall be within 2 months of or more than 4 months following a prior examination, count, verification, and comparison made hereunder.
(c) The examination, count, verification, and comparison may be made either as of a date certain or on a cyclical basis covering the entire list
of securities. In either case the recordation shall be effected within 7 business days subsequent to the examination, count, verification, and comparison of a particular security. In the event that an examination, count, verification, and comparison is made on a cyclical basis, it shall not extend over more than 1 calendar quarter-year, and no security shall be examined, counted, verified, or compared for the purpose of this rule less than 2 months or more than 4 months after a prior examination, count, verification, and comparison.
(d) The examination, count, verification, and comparison shall be made or supervised by persons whose regular duties do not require them to have direct responsibility for the proper care and protection of the securities or the making or preservation of the subject records.
(e) The provisions of this section shall not apply to a broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15(b)(11)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b)(11)(A)) that is not a member of either a national securities exchange pursuant to section 6(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(a)) or a national securities association registered pursuant to section 15A(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-3(a)).
(f) The Commission may, upon written request, exempt from the provisions of this section, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, any member, broker, or dealer who satisfies the Commission that it is not necessary in the public interest and for the protection of investors to subject the particular member, broker, or dealer to certain or all of the provisions of this section, because of the special nature of his business, the safeguards he has established for the protection of customers' funds and securities, or such other reason as the Commission deems appropriate.
[36 FR 21179, Nov. 4, 1971, as amended at 42 FR 23790, May 10, 1977; 52 FR 22299, June 11, 1987; 67 FR 58300, Sept. 13, 2002]
§ 240.17a-14
Form CRS, for preparation, filing and delivery of Form CRS.
(a)
Scope of section.
This section shall apply to every broker or dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15 of the Act that offers services to a retail investor.
(b)
Form CRS.
You must:
(1) Prepare Form CRS 17 CFR 249.640, by following the instructions in the form.
(2) File your current Form CRS electronically with the Commission through the Central Registration Depository (“Web CRD®”) operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., and thereafter, file an amended Form CRS in accordance with the instructions in Form CRS.
(3) Amend your Form CRS as required by the instructions in the form.
(c)
Delivery of Form CRS.
You must:
(1) Deliver to each retail investor your current Form CRS before or at the earliest of:
(i) A recommendation of an account type, a securities transaction; or an investment strategy involving securities;
(ii) Placing an order for the retail investor; or
(iii) The opening of a brokerage account for the retail investor.
(2) Deliver to each retail investor who is an existing customer your current Form CRS before or at the time you:
(i) Open a new account that is different from the retail investor's existing account(s);
(ii) Recommend that the retail investor roll over assets from a retirement account into a new or existing account or investment; or
(iii) Recommend or provide a new brokerage service or investment that does not necessarily involve the opening of a new account and would not be held in an existing account.
(3) Post the current Form CRS prominently on your public website, if you have one, in a location and format that is easily accessible for retail investors.
(4) Communicate any changes made to Form CRS to each retail investor who is an existing customer within 60 days after the amendments are required to be made and without charge. The communication can be made by delivering the amended Form CRS or by communicating the information through another disclosure that is delivered to the retail investor.
(5) Deliver a current Form CRS to each retail investor within 30 days upon request.
(d)
Other disclosure obligations.
Delivering a Form CRS in compliance with this section does not relieve you of any other disclosure obligations arising under the federal securities laws and regulations or other laws or regulations (including the rules of a self-regulatory organization).
(e)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Current Form CRS
means the most recent version of the Form CRS.
(2)
Retail investor
means a natural person, or the legal representative of such natural person, who seeks to receive or receives services primarily for personal, family or household purposes.
(f)
Transition rule.
(1) If you are registered with the Commission prior to June 30, 2020, pursuant to Section 15 of the Act, you must file your initial Form CRS with the Commission in accordance with section (b)(2) of this section, beginning on May 1, 2020, and by no later than June 30, 2020.
(2) On or after June 30, 2020, if you file an application for registration with the Commission or have an application for registration pending with the Commission as a broker or dealer pursuant to Section 15 of the Act, you must begin to comply with this section by the date on which your registration application becomes effective pursuant to Section 15 of the Act, including by filing your Form CRS in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(3) Within 30 days after the date by which you are first required by paragraph (f) of this section to electronically file your initial Form CRS with the Commission, you must deliver to each of your existing customers who is a retail investor your current Form CRS.
(4) As of the date by which you are first required to electronically file your Form CRS with the Commission pursuant to this section, you must begin using your Form CRS as required to comply with paragraph (c) of this rule.
[84 FR 33629, July 12, 2019]
§ 240.17a-18
[Reserved]
§ 240.17a-19
Form X-17A-19 Report by national securities exchanges and registered national securities associations of changes in the membership status of any of their members.
Every national securities exchange and every registered national securities association must file with the Commission and with the Securities Investor Protection Corporation such information as is required by § 249.635 of this chapter on Form X-17A-19 within five business days of the occurrence of the initiation of the membership of any person or the suspension or termination of the membership of any member. Form X-17A-19 must be filed with the Commission electronically on EDGAR in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in 17 CFR 232.11 (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T), and must be filed in accordance with the requirements of Regulation S-T. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to relieve a national securities exchange or a registered national securities association of its responsibilities under § 240.17a-5(b)(5) except that, to the extent a national securities exchange or a registered national securities association promptly files a report on Form X-17A-19 including therewith, inter alia, information sufficient to satisfy the requirements of § 240.17a-5(b)(5), it shall not be required to file a report pursuant to § 240.17a-5(b). Upon the occurrence of the events described in this paragraph, every national securities exchange and every registered national securities association shall notify in writing such member of its responsibilities under § 240.17a-5(b).
[90 FR 7368, Jan. 21, 2025]
§ 240.17a-21
Reports of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.
(a)
Annual Report of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.
The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall file annual reports with the Commission as follows:
(1) Prior to October 1, 1976, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall file with the Commission an annual report for the period from its formation until June 30, 1976 and shall include whatever information, data and
recommendations it considers advisable with regard to matters within its jurisdiction.
(2) Prior to December 1, 1977, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall file with the Commission an annual report for the period from July 1, 1976 until September 30, 1977 and shall include whatever information, data and recommendations it considers advisable with regard to matters within its jurisdiction.
(3) Prior to December 1 of each year beginning in 1978, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall file with the Commission an annual report for the twelve months immediately preceding October 1 of that year and shall include whatever information, data and recommendations it considers advisable with regard to matters within its jurisdiction.
(4) The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall include in its annual report a statement and an analysis of its expenses and operations including:
(i) A balance sheet as of the end of the period covered by the report and a statement of revenues and expenses for the Board for that period;
(ii) The rules of the Board including any written interpretations of the rules or staff interpretive letters, except that this information may be included in the annual report once every three years and shall be up to date as of the latest practicable date within 3 months of the date on which this information is filed. If the Board publishes or cooperates in the publication of this information on an annual or more frequent basis, in lieu of including such information in the annual report the Board may:
(A) Identify the publication in which such information is available, the name, address, and telephone number of the person from whom such publication may be obtained, and the price thereof; and
(B) Certify to the accuracy of such information as of its date. If the Board keeps this information up to date and makes it available to the Commission and the public upon request, in lieu of filing such information the Board may certify that the information is kept up to date and is available to the Commission and the public upon request;
(iii) The following information concerning members of the Board:
(A) Name;
(B) Dates of commencement and termination of present term of office;
(C) Length of time each member has held such office;
(D) Name of principal organization with which connected;
(E) Title; and
(F) City wherein the principal office of such organization is located;
(iv) Address of the Board, the name and address of each person authorized to receive notices on behalf of the Board from the Commission, and the name and address of counsel to the Board, if any; and
(v) A list, including addresses, as of the latest practicable date, alphabetically arranged, of all municipal securities brokers and municipal securities dealers which have paid to the Board fees and charges to defray the costs and expenses of operating the Board.
(5) Within 10 days after the discovery of any material inaccuracy in its annual report or in any amendment thereto the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall file with the Commission an amendment correcting such inaccuracy.
(b)
Supplemental reports of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.
The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall file supplemental reports to the Commission as follows:
(1) Within 10 days after issuing or making generally available to municipal securities brokers and municipal securities dealers any materials (including notices, circulars, bulletins, lists, periodicals, etc.), the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall file with the Commission three copies of such material (unless such material is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 19b-4).
(2) Within 10 days after any action is taken which renders no longer accurate any of the information required by paragraphs (a)(3) (iii), (iv), (v), and (vi) of this section to be contained in the annual report of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (except action reported to the Commission pursuant to Rule 19b-4), the Board shall file with
the Commission written notification in triplicate setting forth the nature of such action and the effective date thereof. Such notice may be filed either in the form of a letter or in the form of a notice made generally available to municipal securities brokers and municipal securities dealers.
[41 FR 36200, Aug. 27, 1976, as amended at 59 FR 66701, Dec. 28, 1994]
§ 240.17a-22
Supplemental material of registered clearing agencies.
Within two business days after issuing, or making generally available, to its participants or to other entities with whom it has a significant relationship, any material (including, for example, manuals, notices, circulars, bulletins, lists or periodicals) that are not otherwise required to be posted on its internet website pursuant to any requirement under Section 19(b) of the Exchange Act or any rule under § 240.19b-4, a registered clearing agency shall prominently post such material on its internet website.
[90 FR 7369, Jan. 21, 2025]
§ 240.17a-25
Electronic submission of securities transaction information by exchange members, brokers, and dealers.
(a) Every member, broker, or dealer subject to § 240.17a-3 shall, upon request, electronically submit to the Commission the securities transaction information as required in this section:
(1) If the transaction was a proprietary transaction effected or caused to be effected by the member, broker, or dealer for any account in which such member, broker, or dealer, or person associated with the member, broker, or dealer, is directly or indirectly interested, such member, broker or dealer shall submit the following information:
(i) Clearing house number, or alpha symbol of the member, broker, or dealer submitting the information;
(ii) Clearing house number(s), or alpha symbol(s) of the member(s), broker(s) or dealer(s) on the opposite side of the transaction;
(iii) Identifying symbol assigned to the security;
(iv) Date transaction was executed;
(v) Number of shares, or quantity of bonds or options contracts, for each specific transaction; whether each transaction was a purchase, sale, or short sale; and, if an options contract, whether open long or short or close long or short;
(vi) Transaction price;
(vii) Account number; and
(viii) The identity of the exchange or other market where the transaction was executed.
(2) If the transaction was effected or caused to be effected by the member, broker, or dealer for any customer account, such member, broker, or dealer shall submit the following information:
(i) Information contained in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(viii) of this section;
(ii) Customer name, address(es), branch office number, registered representative number, whether the order was solicited or unsolicited, date account opened, and the customer's tax identification number(s); and
(iii) If the transaction was effected for a customer of another member, broker, or dealer, whether the other member, broker, or dealer was acting as principal or agent on the transaction.
(b) In addition to the information in paragraph (a) of this section, a member, broker, or dealer shall, upon request, electronically submit to the Commission the following securities transaction information for transactions involving entities that trade using multiple accounts:
(1)(i) If part or all of an account's transactions at the reporting member, broker, or dealer have been transferred or otherwise forwarded to one or more accounts at another member, broker, or dealer, an identifier for this type of transaction; and
(ii) If part or all of an account's transactions at the reporting member, broker, or dealer have been transferred or otherwise received from one or more other members, brokers, or dealers, an identifier for this type of transaction.
(2)(i) If part or all of an account's transactions at the reporting member, broker, or dealer have been transferred or otherwise received from another account at the reporting member, broker, or dealer, an identifier for this type of transaction; and
(ii) If part or all of an account's transactions at the reporting member, broker, or dealer have been transferred or otherwise forwarded to one or more other accounts at the reporting member, broker, or dealer, an identifier for this type of transaction.
(3) If an account's transaction was processed by a depository institution, the identifier assigned to the account by the depository institution.
(c) Every member, broker, or dealer shall, upon request, submit to the Commission and, keep current, information containing the full name, title, address, telephone number(s), facsimile number(s), and electronic-mail address(es) for each person designated by the member, broker, or dealer as responsible for processing securities transaction information requests from the Commission.
(d) The member, broker, or dealer should comply with the format for the electronic submission of the securities transaction information described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section as specified by the member, broker, or dealer's designated self-regulatory organization under § 240.17d-1, unless otherwise specified by Commission rule.
[66 FR 35843, July 9, 2001]
§ 240.17d-1
Examination for compliance with applicable financial responsibility rules.
(a) Where a member of SIPC is a member of more than one self-regulatory organization, the Commission shall designate by written notice to one of such organizations responsibility for examining such member for compliance with applicable financial responsibility rules. In making such designations the Commission shall take into consideration the regulatory capabilities and procedures of the self-regulatory organizations, availability of staff, convenience of location, unnecessary regulatory duplication, and such other factors as the Commission may consider germane to the protection of investors, the cooperation and coordination among self-regulatory organizations, and the development of a national market system and a national system for the clearance and settlement of securities transactions.
(b) Upon designation of responsibility pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, all other self-regulatory organizations of which such person is a member shall be relieved of such responsibility to the extent specified.
(c) After the Commission has acted pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, any self-regulatory organization relieved of responsibility with respect to a member may notify customers of, and persons doing business with, such member of the limited nature of its responsibility for such member's compliance with applicable financial responsibility rules.
[41 FR 18809, May 7, 1976]
§ 240.17d-2
Program for allocation of regulatory responsibility.
(a) Any two or more self-regulatory organizations may file with the Commission within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this rule, and thereafter as changes in designation are necessary or appropriate, a plan for allocating among the self-regulatory organizations the responsibility to receive regulatory reports from persons who are members or participants of more than one of such self-regulatory organizations to examine such persons for compliance, or to enforce compliance by such persons, with specified provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of such self-regulatory organizations, or to carry out other specified regulatory functions with respect to such persons.
(b) Any plan filed hereunder may contain provisions for the allocation among the parties of expenses reasonably incurred by the self-regulatory organization having regulatory responsibilities under the plan.
(c) After appropriate notice and opportunity for comment, the Commission may, by written notice, declare such a plan, or any part of the plan, effective if it finds the plan, or any part thereof, necessary or appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors, to foster cooperation and coordination among self-regulatory organizations, or to remove impediments to and foster the development of the national market system and a national
system for the clearance and settlement of securities transactions and in conformity with the factors set forth in section 17(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(d) Upon the effectiveness of such a plan or part thereof, any self-regulatory organization which is a party to the plan shall be relieved of responsibility as to any person for whom such responsibility is allocated under the plan to another self-regulatory organization to the extent of such allocation.
(e) Nothing herein shall preclude any self-regulatory organization from entering into more than one plan filed hereunder.
(f) After the Commission has declared a plan or part thereof effective pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section or acted pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, a self-regulatory organization relieved of responsibility may notify customers of, and persons doing business with, such member or participant of the limited nature of its responsibility for such member's or participant's acts, practices, and course of business.
(g) In the event that plans declared effective pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section do not provide for all members or participants or do not allocate all regulatory responsibilities, the Commission may, after due consideration of the factors enumerated in section 17(d)(1) and notice and opportunity for comment, designate one or more of the self-regulatory organizations responsible for specified regulatory responsibilities with respect to such members or participants.
[41 FR 49093, Nov. 8, 1976]
§ 240.17f-1
Requirements for reporting and inquiry with respect to missing, lost, counterfeit or stolen securities.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) The term
reporting institution
shall include every national securities exchange, member thereof, registered securities association, broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, government securities broker, government securities dealer, registered transfer agent, registered clearing agency, participant therein, member of the Federal Reserve System and bank whose deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
(2) The term
uncertificated security
shall mean a security not represented by an instrument and the transfer of which is registered upon books maintained for that purpose by or on behalf of the issuer;
(3) The term
global certificate securities issue
shall mean a securities issue for which a single master certificate representing the entire issue is registered in the nominee name of a registered clearing agency and for which beneficial owners cannot receive negotiable securities certificates;
(4) The term
customer
shall mean any person with whom the reporting institution has entered into at least one prior securities-related transaction; and
(5) The term
securities-related transaction
shall mean a purpose, sale or pledge of investment securities, or a custodial arrangement for investment securities.
(6) The term
securities certificate
means any physical instrument that represents or purports to represent ownership in a security that was printed by or on behalf of the issuer thereof and shall include any such instrument that is or was:
(i) Printed but not issued;
(ii) Issued and outstanding, including treasury securities;
(iii) Cancelled, which for this purpose means either or both of the procedures set forth in § 240.17Ad-19(a)(1); or
(iv) Counterfeit or reasonably believed to be counterfeit.
(7) The term
issuer
shall include an issuer's:
(i) Transfer agent(s), paying agent(s), tender agent(s), and person(s) providing similar services; and
(ii) Corporate predecessor(s) and successor(s).
(8) The term
missing
shall include any securities certificate that:
(i) Cannot be located or accounted for, but is not believed to be lost or stolen; or
(ii) A transfer agent claims or believes was destroyed in any manner other than by the transfer agent's own certificate destruction procedures as provided in § 240.17Ad-19.
(b) Every reporting institution shall register with the Commission or its designee in accordance with instructions issued by the Commission except:
(1) A member of a national securities exchange who effects securities transactions through the trading facilities of the exchange and has not received or held customer securities within the last six months;
(2) A reporting institution that, within the last six months, limited its securities activities exclusively to uncertificated securities, global securities issues or any securities issue for which neither record nor beneficial owners can obtain a negotiable securities certificate; or
(3) A reporting institution whose business activities, within the last six months, did not involve the handling of securities certificates.
(c)
Reporting requirements
—(1)
Stolen securities.
(i) Every reporting institution shall report to the Commission or its designee, and to a registered transfer agent for the issue, the discovery of the theft or loss of any securities certificates where there is substantial basis for believing that criminal activity was involved. Such report shall be made within one business day of the discovery and, if the certificate numbers of the securities cannot be ascertained at that time, they shall be reported as soon thereafter as possible.
(ii) Every reporting institution shall promptly report to the Federal Bureau of Investigation upon the discovery of the theft or loss of any securities certificate where there is substantial basis for believing that criminal activity was involved.
(2)
Missing or lost securities.
Every reporting institution shall report to the Commission or its designee, and to a registered transfer agent for the issue, the discovery of the loss of any securities certificate where criminal actions are not suspected when the securities certificate has been missing or lost for a period of two business days. Such report shall be made within one business day of the end of such period except that:
(i) Securities certificates lost, missing, or stolen while in transit to customers, transfer agents, banks, brokers or dealers shall be reported by the delivering institution by the later of two business days after notice of non-receipt or as soon after such notice as the certificate numbers of the securities can be ascertained.
(ii) Where a shipment of retired securities certificates is in transit between any transfer agents, banks, brokers, dealers, or other reporting institutions, with no affiliation existing between such entities, and the delivering institution fails to receive notice of receipt or non-receipt of the certificates, the delivering institution shall act to determine the facts. In the event of non-delivery where the certificates are not recovered by the delivering institution, the delivering institution shall report the certificates as lost, stolen, or missing to the Commission or its designee within a reasonable time under the circumstances but in any event within twenty business days from the date of shipment.
(iii) Securities certificates considered lost or missing as a result of securities counts or verifications required by rule, regulation or otherwise (e.g., dividend record date verification made as a result of firm policy or internal audit function report) shall be reported by the later of ten business days after completion of such securities count or verification or as soon after such count or verification as the certificate numbers of the securities can be ascertained.
(iv) Securities certificates not received during the completion of delivery, deposit or withdrawal shall be reported in the following manner:
(A) Where delivery of the securities certificates is through a clearing agency, the delivering institution shall supply to the receiving institution the certificate number of the security within two business days from the date of request from the receiving institution. The receiving institution shall report within one business day of notification of the certificate number;
(B) Where the delivery of securities certificates is in person and where the delivering institution has a receipt, the delivering institution shall supply the receiving institution the certificate numbers of the securities within two business days from the date of request
from the receiving institution. The receiving institution shall report within one business day of notification of the certificate number;
(C) Where the delivery of securities certificates is in person and where the delivering institution has no receipt, the delivering institution shall report within two business days of notification of non-receipt by the receiving institution; or
(D) Where delivery of securities certificates is made by mail or via draft, if payment is not received within ten business days, the delivering institution shall confirm with the receiving institution the failure to receive such delivery; if confirmation shows non-receipt, the delivering institution shall report within two business days of such confirmation.
(3)
Counterfeit securities.
Every reporting institution shall report the discovery of any counterfeit securities certificate to the Commission or its designee, to a registered transfer agent for the issue, and to the Federal Bureau of Investigation within one business day of such discovery.
(4)
Transfer agent reporting obligations.
Every transfer agent shall make the reports required above only if it receives notification of the loss, theft or counterfeiting from a non-reporting institution or if it receives notification other than on a Form X-17F-1A or if the certificate was in its possession at the time of the loss.
(5)
Recovery.
Every reporting institution that originally reported a lost, missing or stolen securities certificate pursuant to this Section shall report recovery of that securities certificate to the Commission or its designee and to a registered transfer agent for the issue within one business day of such recovery or finding. Every reporting institution that originally made a report in which criminality was indicated also shall notify the Federal Bureau of Investigation that the securities certificate has been recovered.
(6)
Information to be reported.
All reports made pursuant to this Section shall include, if applicable or available, the following information with respect to each securities certificate:
(i) Issuer;
(ii) Type of security and series;
(iii) Date of issue;
(iv) Maturity date;
(v) Denomination;
(vi) Interest rate;
(vii) Certificate number, including alphabetical prefix or suffix;
(viii) Name in which registered;
(ix) Distinguishing characteristics, if counterfeit;
(x) Date of discovery of loss or recovery;
(xi) CUSIP number;
(xii) Financial Industry Numbering System (“FINS”) Number; and
(xiii) Type of loss.
(7)
Forms.
Reporting institutions shall make all reports to the Commission or its designee and to a registered transfer agent for the issue pursuant to this section on Form X-17F-1A. Reporting institutions shall make reports to the Federal Bureau of Investigation pursuant to this Section on Form X-17F-1A, unless the reporting institution is a member of the Federal Reserve System or a bank whose deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, in which case reports may be made on the form required by the institution's appropriate regulatory agency for reports to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(d)
Required inquiries.
(1) Every reporting institution (except a reporting institution that, acting in its capacity as transfer agent, paying agent, exchange agent or tender agent for an equity issue, or registrar for a bond or other debt issue, compares all transactions against a shareholder or bondholder list and a current list of stop transfers) shall inquire of the Commission or its designee with respect to every securities certificate which comes into its possession or keeping, whether by pledge, transfer or otherwise, to ascertain whether such securities certificate has been reported as missing, lost, counterfeit or stolen, unless:
(i) The securities certificate is received directly from the issuer or issuing agent at issuance;
(ii) The securities certificate is received from another reporting institution or from a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch;
(iii) The securities certificate is received from a customer of the reporting institution; and
(A) Is registered in the name of such customer or its nominee; or
(B) Was previously sold to such customer, as verified by the internal records of the reporting institution;
(iv) The securities certificate is received as part of a transaction which has an aggregate face value of $10,000 or less in the case of bonds, or market value of $10,000 or less in the case of stocks; or
(v) The securities certificate is received directly from a drop which is affiliated with a reporting institution for the purposes of receiving or delivering certificates on behalf of the reporting institution.
(2)
Form of inquiry.
Inquiries shall be made in such manner as prescribed by the Commission or its designee.
(3) A reporting institution shall make required inquiries by the end of the fifth business day after a securities certificate comes into its possession or keeping, provided that such inquiries shall be made before the certificate is sold, used as collateral, or sent to another reporting institution.
(e)
Permissive reports and inquiries.
Every reporting insitution may report to or inquire of the Commission or its designee with respect to any securities certificate not otherwise required by this section to be the subject of a report or inquiry. The Commission on written request or upon its own motion may permit reports to and inquiries of the system by any other person or entity upon such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate and necessary in the public interest and for the protection of investors.
(f)
Exemptions.
The following types of securities are not subject to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section:
(1) Security issues not assigned CUSIP numbers;
(2) Bond coupons;
(3) Uncertificated securities;
(4) Global securities issues; and
(5) Any securities issue for which neither record nor beneficial owners can obtain a negotiable securities certificates.
(g)
Recordkeeping.
Every reporting institution shall maintain and preserve in an easily accessible place for three years copies of all Forms X-17F-1A filed pursuant to this section, all agreements between reporting institutions regarding registration or other aspects of this section, and all confirmations or other information received from the Commission or its designee as a result of inquiry.
(Secs. 2, 17, and 23, 15 U.S.C. 78b, 78q, 78w)
[44 FR 31503, May 31, 1979; 45 FR 14022, Mar. 3, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 37289, Sept. 26, 1988; 53 FR 40721, Oct. 18, 1988; 68 FR 74400, Dec. 23, 2003]
§ 240.17f-2
Fingerprinting of securities industry personnel.
(a)
Exemptions for the fingerprinting requirement.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, every member of a national securities exchange, broker, dealer, registered transfer agent and registered clearing agency shall require that each of its partners, directors, officers and employees be fingerprinted and shall submit, or cause to be submitted, the fingerprints of such persons to the Attorney General of the United States or its designee for identification and appropriate processing.
(1)
Permissive exemptions.
Every member of a national securities exchange, broker, dealer, registered transfer agent and registered clearing agency may claim one or more of the exemptions in paragraph (a)(1) (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this section;
Provided,
That all the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section are also satisfied.
(i)
Member of a national securities exchange, broker, dealer or registered clearing agency.
Every person who is a partner, director, officer or employee of a member of a national securities exchange, broker, dealer, or registered clearing agency shall be exempt if that person:
(A) Is not engaged in the sale of securities;
(B) Does not regularly have access to the keeping, handling or processing of (
1
) securities, (
2
) monies, or (
3
) the original books and records relating to the securities or the monies; and
(C) Does not have direct supervisory responsibility over persons engaged in the activities referred to in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) (A) and (B) of this section.
(ii)
Registered transfer agents.
Every person who is a partner, director, officer or employee of a registered transfer agent shall be exempt if that person:
(A) Is not engaged in transfer agent functions (as defined in section 3(a)(25) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) or activities incidental thereto; or
(B) Meets the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) (B) and (C) of this section.
(iii)
Registered broker-dealers engaged in sales of certain securities.
Every partner, director, officer and employee of a registered broker or dealer who satisfies paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section shall be exempt if that broker or dealer:
(A) Is engaged exclusively in the sale of shares of registered open-end management investment companies, variable contracts, or interests in limited partnerships, unit investment trusts or real estate investment trusts;
Provided,
That those securities ordinarily are not evidenced by certificates;
(B) Is current in its continuing obligation under §§ 240.15b1-1 and 15b3-1(b) to update Item 10 of Form BD to disclose the existence of any statutory disqualification set forth in sections 3(a)(39), 15(b)(4) and 15(b)(6) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(C) Has insurance or bonding indemnifying it for losses to customers caused by the fraudulent or criminal acts of any of its partners, directors, officers or employees for whom an exemption is being claimed under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section; and
(D) Is subject to the jurisdiction of a state insurance department with respect to its sale of variable contracts.
(iv)
Illegible fingerprint cards.
Every person who is a partner, director, officer or employee shall be exempt if that member of a national securities exchange, broker, dealer, registered transfer agent or registered clearing agency, on at least three occasions:
(A) Attempts in good faith to obtain from such person a complete set of fingerprints acceptable to the Attorney General or its designee for identification and appropriate processing by requiring that person to be fingerprinted, by having that person's fingerprints rolled by a person competent to do so and by submitting the fingerprint cards for that person to the Attorney General of the United States or its designee in accordance with proper procedures;
(B) Has that person's fingerprint cards returned to it by the Attorney General of the United States or its designee without that person's fingerprints having been identified because the fingerprints were illegible; and
(C) Retains the returned fingerprint cards and any other required records in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and §§ 240.17a-3(a)(13), 17a-4(e)(2) and 240.17Ad-7(e)(1) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(2)
Other exemptions by application to the Commission.
The Commission, upon specified terms, conditions and periods, may grant exemptions to any class of partners, directors, officers or employees of any member of a national securities exchange, broker, dealer, registered transfer agent or registered clearing agency, if the Commission finds that such action is not inconsistent with the public interest or the protection of investors.
(b)
Fingerprinting pursuant to other law.
Every member of a national securities exchange, broker, dealer, registered transfer agent and registered clearing agency may satisfy the fingerprinting requirement of section 17(f)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as to any partner, director, officer or employee, if:
(1) The person, in connection with his or her present employment with such organization, has been fingerprinted pursuant to any other law, statute, rule or regulation of any state or federal government or agency thereof;
(2) The fingerprint cards for that person are submitted, or are caused to be submitted, to the Attorney General of the United States or its designee for identification and appropriate processing, and the Attorney General or its designee has processed those fingerprint cards; and
(3) The processed fingerprint cards or any substitute records, together with any information received from the Attorney General or its designee, are maintained in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(c)
Fingerprinting plans of self-regulatory organizations.
The fingerprinting
requirement of section 17(f)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 may be satisfied by submitting appropriate and complete fingerprint cards to a registered national securities exchange or to a registered national securities association which, pursuant to a plan filed with, and declared effective by, the Commission, forwards such fingerprint cards to the Attorney General of the United States or its designee for identification and appropriate processing. Any plan filed by a registered national securities exchange or a registered national securities association shall not become effective, unless declared effective by the Commission as not inconsistent with the public interest or the protection of investors; and, in declaring any such plan effective, the Commission may impose any terms and conditions relating to the provisions of the plan and the period of its effectiveness as it may deem necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(d)
Record maintenance
—(1)
Maintenance of processed fingerprint cards and other related information.
Every member of a national securities exchange, broker, dealer, registered transfer agent and registered clearing agency shall maintain the processed fingerprint card or any substitute record when such card is not returned after processing, together with any information received from the Attorney General or its designee, for every person required to be fingerprinted under section 17(f)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and for persons who have complied with this section pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this section. Every substitute record shall state the name of the person whose fingerprint card was submitted to the Attorney General of the United States, the name of the member of a national securities exchange, broker, dealer, registered transfer agent or registered clearing agency that submitted the fingerprint card, the name of the person or organization that rolled the fingerprints, the date on which the fingerprints were rolled, and the date the fingerprint card was submitted to the Attorney General of the United States. The processed fingerprint card and every other substitute record containing the information required by this paragraph, together with any information received from the Attorney General of the United States, shall be kept in an easily accessible place at the organization's principal office and shall be made available upon request to the Commission, the appropriate regulatory agency (if not the Commission) or other designated examining authority. The organization's principal office must provide to the regional, branch or satellite office actually employing the person written evidence that the person's fingerprints have been processed by the FBI, and must provide to that office a copy of any criminal history record information received from the FBI. All fingerprint cards, records and information required to be maintained under this paragraph shall be retained for a period of not less than three years after termination of that person's employment or relationship with the organization.
(2)
Record maintenance by designated examining authorities.
The records required to be maintained and preserved by a member of a national securities exchange, broker, or dealer pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section may be maintained and preserved on behalf of that member, broker, or dealer by a self-regulatory organization that is also the designated examining authority for that member, broker or dealer,
Provided
That the self-regulatory organization has filed in accordance with § 240.17f-2(c) a fingerprinting plan or amendments to an existing plan concerning the storage and maintenance of records and that plan, as amended, has been declared effective by the Commission, and
Provided Further
That:
(i) Such records are subject at any time, or from time to time, to reasonable periodic, special or other examinations by representatives of the Commission; and
(ii) The self-regulatory organization furnishes to the Commission, upon demand, at either the principal office or at the regional office complete, correct and current hard copies of any and all such records.
(3)
Reproduction of records on microfilm.
The records required to be maintained pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section may be produced or reproduced on microfilm and preserved in that form. If such microfilm substitution for hard copy is made by a member of a national securities exchange, broker, dealer, registered transfer agent or registered clearing agency, or by a self-regulatory organization maintaining and storing records pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, it shall at all times:
(i) Have available for examination by the Commission, the appropriate regulatory agency (if not the Commission) or other designated examining authority, facilities for the immediate, easily readable projection of the microfilm and for the production of easily readable and legible facsimile enlargements;
(ii) File and index the films in such a manner as to permit the immediate location and retrieval of any particular record;
(iii) Be ready to provide, and immediately provide, any facsimile enlargement which the Commission, the appropriate regulatory agency (if not the Commission) or other designated examining authority by their examiners or other representatives may request; and
(iv) For the period for which the microfilm records are required to be maintained, store separately from the original microfilm records a copy of the microfilm records.
(e)
Notice requirement.
Every member of a national securities exchange, broker, dealer, registered transfer agent and registered clearing agency that claims one or more of the exemptions in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall make and keep current a statement entitled “Notice Pursuant to Rule 17f-2” containing the information specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(1)
Contents of statement.
The Notice required by paragraph (e) of this section shall:
(i) State the name of the organization and state whether it is a member of a national securities exchange, broker, dealer, registered transfer agent, or registered clearing agency;
(ii) Identify by division, department, class, or name and position within the organization all persons who are claimed to have satisfied the fingerprinting requirement of section 17(f)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section;
(iii) Identify by division, department, class, title or position within the organization all persons claimed to be exempt under paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, and identify by name all persons claimed to be exempt under paragraph (a)(1)(iv). Persons identified under this paragraph (e)(1)(iii) shall be exempt from the requirement of section 17(f)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 unless notified to the contrary by the Commission;
(iv) Describe, in generic terms, the nature of the duties of the person or classes of persons, and the nature of the functions and operations of the divisions and departments, identified as exempt in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section; and
(v) Describe the security measures utilized to ensure that only those persons who have been fingerprinted in accordance with the fingerprinting requirement of section 17(f)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or who are exempt under paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section have access to the keeping, handling or processing of securities or monies or the original books and records relating thereto.
(2)
Record maintenance.
A copy of the Notice required to be made and kept current under paragraph (e) of this section shall be kept in an easily accessible place at the organization's principal office and at the office employing the persons for whom exemptions are claimed and shall be made available upon request for inspection by the Commission, appropriate regulatory agency (if not the Commission) or other designated examining authority.
(3)
Exemption from the notice requirement.
A registered transfer agent that performs transfer agent functions only on behalf of itself as an issuer and that receives fewer than 500 items for transfer and fewer than 500 items for processing during any six consecutive
months shall be exempt from the notice requirement of paragraph (c) of this section.
[47 FR 54060, Dec. 1, 1982]

# Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations

# Source:
72 FR 33620, June 18, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 240.17g-1
Application for registration as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(a)
Initial application.
A credit rating agency applying to the Commission to be registered under section 15E of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7) as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization must file with the Commission two paper copies of an initial application on Form NRSRO (§ 249b.300 of this chapter) that follows all applicable instructions for the Form.
(b)
Application to register for an additional class of credit ratings.
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization applying to register for an additional class of the credit ratings described in section 3(a)(62)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(62)(B)) must file with the Commission two paper copies of an application to add a class of credit ratings on Form NRSRO that follows all applicable instructions for the Form. The application will be subject to the requirements of section 15E(a)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(a)(2)).
(c)
Supplementing an application prior to final action by the Commission.
An applicant must promptly file with the Commission two paper copies of a written notice if information submitted to the Commission in an initial application to be registered as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization or in an application to register for an additional class of credit ratings is found to be or becomes materially inaccurate prior to the date of a Commission order granting or denying the application. The notice must identify the information that was found to be materially inaccurate. The applicant also must promptly file with the Commission two paper copies of an application supplement on Form NRSRO that follows all applicable instructions for the Form.
(d)
Withdrawing an application.
An applicant may withdraw an initial application to be registered as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization or an application to register for an additional class of credit ratings prior to the date of a Commission order granting or denying the application. To withdraw the application, the applicant must furnish the Commission with two paper copies of a written notice of withdrawal executed by a duly authorized person.
(e)
Update of registration.
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization amending materially inaccurate information in its application for registration pursuant to section 15E(b)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(b)(1)) must promptly file with the Commission an update of its registration on Form NRSRO that follows all applicable instructions for the Form. A Form NRSRO and the information and documents in Exhibits 2 through 9 to Form NRSRO, as applicable, filed under this paragraph must be filed electronically with the Commission on EDGAR as a PDF document in the format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in Rule 11 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.11 of this chapter).
(f)
Annual certification.
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization amending its application for registration pursuant to section 15E(b)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(b)(2)) must file with the Commission an annual certification on Form NRSRO that follows all applicable instructions for the Form not later than 90 days after the end of each calendar year. A Form NRSRO and the information and documents in Exhibits 1 through 9 to Form NRSRO filed under this paragraph must be filed electronically with the Commission on EDGAR as a PDF document in the format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in Rule 11 of Regulation S-T.
(g)
Withdrawal from registration.
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization withdrawing from registration pursuant to section 15E(e)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(e)(1)) must furnish the Commission with a notice of withdrawal from registration on Form NRSRO that follows all applicable instructions for the Form. The
withdrawal from registration will become effective 45 calendar days after the notice is furnished to the Commission upon such terms and conditions as the Commission may establish as necessary in the public interest or for the protection of investors. A Form NRSRO furnished under this paragraph must be furnished electronically with the Commission on EDGAR as a PDF document in the format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in Rule 11 of Regulation S-T.
(h)
Filing or furnishing Form NRSRO.
A Form NRSRO filed or furnished, as applicable, under any paragraph of this section will be considered filed with or furnished to the Commission on the date the Commission receives a complete and properly executed Form NRSRO that follows all applicable instructions for the Form. Information filed or furnished, as applicable, on a confidential basis and for which confidential treatment has been requested pursuant to applicable Commission rules will be accorded confidential treatment to the extent permitted by law.
(i)
Public availability of Form NRSRO.
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization must make its current Form NRSRO and information and documents in Exhibits 1 through 9 to Form NRSRO publicly and freely available on an easily accessible portion of its corporate Internet Web site within 10 business days after the date of the Commission order granting an initial application for registration as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization or an application to register for an additional class of credit ratings and within 10 business days after filing with or furnishing to, as applicable, the Commission a Form NRSRO under paragraph (e), (f), or (g) of this section. In addition, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization must make its most recently filed Exhibit 1 to Form NRSRO freely available in writing to any individual who requests a copy of the Exhibit.
[13 FR 8178, Dec. 22, 1948, as amended at 79 FR 55262, Sept. 15, 2014]
§ 240.17g-2
Records to be made and retained by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations.
(a)
Records required to be made and retained.
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization must make and retain the following books and records, which must be complete and current:
(1) Records of original entry into the accounting system of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization and records reflecting entries to and balances in all general ledger accounts of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization for each fiscal year.
(2) Records with respect to each current credit rating of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization indicating (as applicable):
(i) The identity of any credit analyst(s) that participated in determining the credit rating;
(ii) The identity of the person(s) that approved the credit rating before it was issued;
(iii) If a quantitative model was a substantial component in the process of determining the credit rating of a security or money market instrument issued by an asset pool or as part of any asset-backed securities transaction, a record of the rationale for any material difference between the credit rating implied by the model and the final credit rating issued; and
(iv) Whether the credit rating was solicited or unsolicited.
(3) An account record for each person (for example, an obligor, issuer, underwriter, or other user) that has paid the nationally recognized statistical rating organization for the issuance or maintenance of a credit rating indicating:
(i) The identity and address of the person; and
(ii) The credit rating(s) determined or maintained for the person.
(4) An account record for each subscriber to the credit ratings and/or credit analysis reports of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization indicating the identity and address of the subscriber.
(5) A record listing the general types of services and products offered by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(6) A record documenting the established procedures and methodologies used by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to determine credit ratings.
(7) A record that lists each security and money market instrument and its corresponding credit rating issued by an asset pool or as part of any asset-backed securities transaction where the nationally recognized statistical rating organization, in determining the credit rating for the security or money market instrument, treats assets within such pool or as a part of such transaction that are not subject to a credit rating of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization by any or a combination of the following methods:
(i) Determining credit ratings for the unrated assets;
(ii) Performing credit assessments or determining private credit ratings for the unrated assets;
(iii) Determining credit ratings or private credit ratings, or performing credit assessments for the unrated assets by taking into consideration the internal credit analysis of another person; or
(iv) Determining credit ratings or private credit ratings, or performing credit assessments for the unrated assets by taking into consideration (but not necessarily adopting) the credit ratings of another nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(8) For each outstanding credit rating, a record showing all rating actions and the date of such actions from the initial credit rating to the current credit rating identified by the name of the rated security or obligor and, if applicable, the CUSIP of the rated security or the Central Index Key (CIK) number of the rated obligor.
(9) A record documenting the policies and procedures the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is required to establish, maintain, and enforce pursuant to section 15E(h)(4)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(h)(4)(A)) and § 240.17g-8(c).
(b)
Records required to be retained.
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization must retain the following books and records (excluding drafts of documents) that relate to its business as a credit rating agency:
(1) Significant records (for example, bank statements, invoices, and trial balances) underlying the information included in the annual financial reports the nationally recognized statistical rating organization filed with or furnished to, as applicable, the Commission pursuant to § 240.17g-3.
(2) Internal records, including nonpublic information and work papers, used to form the basis of a credit rating issued by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(3) Credit analysis reports, credit assessment reports, and private credit rating reports of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization and internal records, including nonpublic information and work papers, used to form the basis for the opinions expressed in these reports.
(4) Compliance reports and compliance exception reports.
(5) Internal audit plans, internal audit reports, documents relating to internal audit follow-up measures, and all records identified by the internal auditors of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization as necessary to perform the audit of an activity that relates to its business as a credit rating agency.
(6) Marketing materials of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization that are published or otherwise made available to persons that are not associated with the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(7) External and internal communications, including electronic communications, received and sent by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization and its employees that relate to initiating, determining, maintaining, monitoring, changing,, or withdrawing a credit rating.
(8) Any written communications received from persons not associated with the nationally recognized statistical rating organization that contain complaints about the performance of a credit analyst in initiating, determining, maintaining, monitoring, changing, or withdrawing a credit rating.
(9) Internal documents that contain information, analysis, or statistics that were used to develop a procedure
or methodology to treat the credit ratings of another nationally recognized statistical rating organization for the purpose of determining a credit rating for a security or money market instrument issued by an asset pool or part of any asset-backed securities transaction.
(10) For each security or money market instrument identified in the record required to be made and retained under paragraph (a)(7) of this section, any document that contains a description of how assets within such pool or as a part of such transaction not rated by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization but rated by another nationally recognized statistical rating organization were treated for the purpose of determining the credit rating of the security or money market instrument.
(11) Forms NRSRO (including Exhibits and accompanying information and documents) the nationally recognized statistical rating organization filed with or furnished to, as applicable, the Commission.
(12) The internal control structure the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is required to establish, maintain, enforce, and document pursuant to section 15E(c)(3)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(c)(3)(A)).
(13) The policies and procedures the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is required to establish, maintain, enforce, and document pursuant to § 240.17g-8(a).
(14) The policies and procedures the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is required to establish, maintain, enforce, and document pursuant to § 240.17g-8(b).
(15) The standards of training, experience, and competence for credit analysts the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is required to establish, maintain, enforce, and document pursuant to § 240.17g-9.
(c)
Record retention periods.
The records required to be retained pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be retained for three years after the date the record is made or received, except that a record identified in paragraph (a)(9), (b)(12), (b)(13), (b)(14), or (b)(15) of this section must be retained until three years after the date the record is replaced with an updated record.
(d)
Manner of retention.
An original, or a true and complete copy of the original, of each record required to be retained pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be maintained in a manner that, for the applicable retention period specified in paragraph (c) of this section, makes the original record or copy easily accessible to the principal office of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization and to any other office that conducted activities causing the record to be made or received.
(e)
Third-party record custodian.
The records required to be retained pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be made or retained by a third-party record custodian, provided the nationally recognized statistical rating organization furnishes the Commission at its principal office in Washington, DC with a written undertaking of the custodian executed by a duly authorized person. The undertaking must be in substantially the following form:
The undersigned acknowledges that books and records it has made or is retaining for [the nationally recognized statistical rating organization] are the exclusive property of [the nationally recognized statistical rating organization]. The undersigned undertakes that upon the request of [the nationally recognized statistical rating organization] it will promptly provide the books and records to [the nationally recognized statistical rating organization] or the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) or its representatives and that upon the request of the Commission it will promptly permit examination by the Commission or its representatives of the records at any time or from time to time during business hours and promptly furnish to the Commission or its representatives a true and complete copy of any or all or any part of such books and records.
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization that engages a third-party record custodian remains responsible for complying with every provision of this section.
(f) A nationally recognized statistical rating organization must promptly furnish the Commission or its representatives with legible, complete, and current copies, and, if specifically requested, English translations of those
records of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization required to be retained pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) this section, or any other records of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization subject to examination under section 17(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q(b)) that are requested by the Commission or its representatives.
[72 FR 33620, June 18, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 6482, Feb. 9, 2009; 74 FR 63863, Dec. 4, 2009; 79 FR 55263, Nov. 14, 2014]
§ 240.17g-3
Annual financial and other reports to be filed or furnished by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations.
(a) A nationally recognized statistical rating organization must annually, not more than 90 calendar days after the end of its fiscal year (as indicated on its current Form NRSRO):
(1) File with the Commission a financial report, as of the end of the fiscal year, containing audited financial statements of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization or audited consolidated financial statements of its parent if the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is a separately identifiable division or department of the parent. The audited financial statements must:
(i) Include a balance sheet, an income statement (or a statement of comprehensive income, as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X of this chapter, if required by the applicable generally accepted accounting principles noted in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) and statement of cash flows, and a statement of changes in ownership equity;
(ii) Be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the jurisdiction in which the nationally recognized statistical rating organization or its parent is incorporated, organized, or has its principal office; and
(iii) Be certified by an accountant who is qualified and independent in accordance with paragraphs (a), (b), and (c)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (8) of § 210.2-01 of this chapter. The accountant must give an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (d) of § 210.2-02 of this chapter.
(2) File with the Commission a financial report, as of the end of the fiscal year, containing, if applicable, unaudited consolidating financial statements of the parent of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization that include the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(2):
This financial report must be filed only if the audited financial statements provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section are consolidated financial statements of the parent of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(3) File with the Commission an unaudited financial report, as of the end of the fiscal year, providing information concerning the revenue of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization in each of the following categories (as applicable) for the fiscal year:
(i) Revenue from determining and maintaining credit ratings;
(ii) Revenue from subscribers;
(iii) Revenue from granting licenses or rights to publish credit ratings; and
(iv) Revenue from all other services and products (include descriptions of any major sources of revenue).
(4) File with the Commission an unaudited financial report, as of the end of the fiscal year, providing the total aggregate and median annual compensation of the credit analysts of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization for the fiscal year.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(4):
In calculating total and median annual compensation, the nationally recognized statistical rating organization may exclude deferred compensation, provided such exclusion is noted in the report.
(5) File with the Commission an unaudited financial report, as of the end of the fiscal year, listing the 20 largest issuers and subscribers that used credit rating services provided by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization by amount of net revenue attributable to the issuer or subscriber during the fiscal year. Additionally, include on the list any obligor or underwriter that used the credit rating services provided by the nationally
recognized statistical rating organization if the net revenue attributable to the obligor or underwriter during the fiscal year equaled or exceeded the net revenue attributable to the 20th largest issuer or subscriber. Include the net revenue amount for each person on the list.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(5):
A person is deemed to have “used the credit rating services” of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization if the person is any of the following: an obligor that is rated by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization (regardless of whether the obligor paid for the credit rating); an issuer that has securities or money market instruments subject to a credit rating of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization (regardless of whether the issuer paid for the credit rating); any other person that has paid the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to determine a credit rating with respect to a specific obligor, security, or money market instrument; or a subscriber to the credit ratings, credit ratings data, or credit analysis of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization. In calculating net revenue attributable to a person, the nationally recognized statistical rating organization should include all revenue earned by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization for any type of service or product, regardless of whether related to credit rating services, and net of any rebates and allowances paid or owed to the person by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(6) Furnish the Commission with an unaudited report, as of the end of the fiscal year, of the number of credit ratings actions (upgrades, downgrades, placements on credit watch, and withdrawals) taken during the fiscal year in each class of credit ratings identified in section 3(a)(62)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(62)(B)) for which the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is registered with the Commission.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(6):
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization registered in the class of credit ratings described in section 3(a)(62)(B)(iv) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(62)(B)(iv)) must include credit ratings actions taken on credit ratings of any security or money market instrument issued by an asset pool or as part of any asset-backed securities transaction for purposes of reporting the number of credit ratings actions in this class.
(7)(i) File with the Commission an unaudited report containing an assessment by management of the effectiveness during the fiscal year of the internal control structure governing the implementation of and adherence to policies, procedures, and methodologies for determining credit ratings the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is required to establish, maintain, enforce, and document pursuant to section 15E(c)(3)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(c)(3)(A)) that includes:
(A) A description of the responsibility of management in establishing and maintaining an effective internal control structure;
(B) A description of each material weakness in the internal control structure identified during the fiscal year, if any, and a description, if applicable, of how each identified material weakness was addressed; and
(C) A statement as to whether the internal control structure was effective as of the end of the fiscal year.
(ii) Management is not permitted to conclude that the internal control structure of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization was effective as of the end of the fiscal year if there were one or more material weaknesses in the internal control structure as of the end of the fiscal year.
(iii) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(7), a deficiency in the internal control structure exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect a failure of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to:
(A) Implement a policy, procedure, or methodology for determining credit ratings in accordance with the policies and procedures of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization; or
(B) Adhere to an implemented policy, procedure, or methodology for determining credit ratings.
(iv) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(7), a material weakness exists if a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in the design or operation of the internal control structure creates a reasonable possibility that a failure identified in paragraph (a)(7)(iii) of this
section that is material will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
(8) File with the Commission an unaudited annual report on the compliance of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization with the securities laws and the policies and procedures of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization pursuant to section 15E(j)(5)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(j)(5)(B)).
(b)(1) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization must attach to the reports filed or furnished, as applicable, pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section a signed statement by a duly authorized person associated with the nationally recognized statistical rating organization stating that the person has responsibility for the reports and, to the best knowledge of the person, the reports fairly present, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, revenues, analyst compensation, and credit rating actions of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization for the period presented; and
(2) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization must attach to the report filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(7) of this section a signed statement by the chief executive officer of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization or, if the nationally recognized statistical rating organization does not have a chief executive officer, an individual performing similar functions, stating that the chief executive officer or equivalent individual has responsibility for the report and, to the best knowledge of the chief executive officer or equivalent individual, the report fairly presents, in all material respects: an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the internal control structure during the fiscal year that includes a description of the responsibility of management in establishing and maintaining an effective internal control structure; a description of each material weakness in the internal control structure identified during the fiscal year, if any, and a description, if applicable, of how each identified material weakness was addressed; and an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the internal control structure as of the end of the fiscal year.
(c) The Commission may grant an extension of time or an exemption with respect to any requirements in this section either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions on the written request of a nationally recognized statistical rating organization if the Commission finds that such extension or exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors.
(d)
Electronic filing.
The reports must be filed with or furnished to, as applicable, the Commission electronically on EDGAR as PDF documents in the format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in Rule 11 of Regulation S-T.
(e)
Confidential treatment.
Information in a report filed or furnished, as applicable, on a confidential basis and for which confidential treatment has been requested pursuant to applicable Commission rules will be accorded confidential treatment to the extent permitted by law. Confidential treatment may be requested by marking each page “Confidential Treatment Requested” and by complying with Commission rules governing confidential treatment.
[72 FR 33620, June 18, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 6482, Feb. 9, 2009; 79 FR 55263, Sept. 15, 2014; 79 FR 61576, Nov. 14, 2014; 83 FR 50223, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 240.17g-4
Prevention of misuse of material nonpublic information.
(a) The written policies and procedures a nationally recognized statistical rating organization establishes, maintains, and enforces to prevent the misuse of material, nonpublic information pursuant to section 15E(g)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(g)(1)) must include policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent:
(1) The inappropriate dissemination within and outside the nationally recognized statistical rating organization of material nonpublic information obtained in connection with the performance of credit rating services;
(2) A person within the nationally recognized statistical rating organization from purchasing, selling, or otherwise benefiting from any transaction in securities or money market instruments when the person is aware of material nonpublic information obtained in connection with the performance of credit rating services that affects the securities or money market instruments; and
(3) The inappropriate dissemination within and outside the nationally recognized statistical rating organization of a pending credit rating action before issuing the credit rating on the Internet or through another readily accessible means.
(b) For the purposes of this section, the term
person within a nationally recognized statistical rating organization
means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, its credit rating affiliates identified on Form NRSRO, and any partner, officer, director, branch manager, and employee of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization or its credit rating affiliates (or any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions).
§ 240.17g-5
Conflicts of interest.
(a) A person within a nationally recognized statistical rating organization is prohibited from having a conflict of interest relating to the issuance or maintenance of a credit rating identified in paragraph (b) of this section, unless:
(1) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization has disclosed the type of conflict of interest in Exhibit 6 to Form NRSRO in accordance with section 15E(a)(1)(B)(vi) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(a)(1)(B)(vi)) and § 240.17g-1;
(2) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization has established and is maintaining and enforcing written policies and procedures to address and manage conflicts of interest in accordance with section 15E(h) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(h)); and
(3) In the case of the conflict of interest identified in paragraph (b)(9) of this section relating to issuing or maintaining a credit rating for a security or money market instrument issued by an asset pool or as part of any asset-backed securities transaction, the nationally recognized statistical rating organization:
(i) Maintains on a password-protected Internet Web site a list of each such security or money market instrument for which it is currently in the process of determining an initial credit rating in chronological order and identifying the type of security or money market instrument, the name of the issuer, the date the rating process was initiated, and the Internet Web site address where the issuer, sponsor, or underwriter of the security or money market instrument represents that the information described in paragraphs (a)(3)(iii)(C) through (E) of this section can be accessed;
(ii) Provides free and unlimited access to such password-protected Internet Web site during the applicable calendar year to any nationally recognized statistical rating organization that provides it with a copy of the certification described in paragraph (e) of this section that covers that calendar year, provided that such certification indicates that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization providing the certification either:
(A) Determined and maintained credit ratings for at least 10% of the issued securities and money market instruments for which it accessed information pursuant to 17 CFR 240.17g-5(a)(3)(iii) in the calendar year prior to the year covered by the certification, if it accessed such information for 10 or more issued securities or money market instruments; or
(B) Has not accessed information pursuant to 17 CFR 240.17g-5(a)(3) 10 or more times during the most recently ended calendar year; and
(iii) Obtains from the issuer, sponsor, or underwriter of each such security or money market instrument a written representation that can reasonably be relied upon that the issuer, sponsor, or underwriter will:
(A) Maintain the information described in paragraphs (a)(3)(iii)(C) through (E) of this section available at an identified password-protected Internet Web site that presents the information in a manner indicating which information currently should be relied on
to determine or monitor the credit rating;
(B) Provide access to such password-protected Internet Web site during the applicable calendar year to any nationally recognized statistical rating organization that provides it with a copy of the certification described in paragraph (e) of this section that covers that calendar year, provided that such certification indicates that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization providing the certification either:
(
1
) Determined and maintained credit ratings for at least 10% of the issued securities and money market instruments for which it accessed information pursuant to 17 CFR 240.17g-5(a)(3)(iii) in the calendar year prior to the year covered by the certification, if it accessed such information for 10 or more issued securities or money market instruments; or
(
2
) Has not accessed information pursuant to 17 CFR 240.17g-5(a)(3) 10 or more times during the most recently ended calendar year.
(C) Post on such password-protected Internet Web site all information the issuer, sponsor, or underwriter provides to the nationally recognized statistical rating organization, or contracts with a third party to provide to the nationally recognized statistical rating organization, for the purpose of determining the initial credit rating for the security or money market instrument, including information about the characteristics of the assets underlying or referenced by the security or money market instrument, and the legal structure of the security or money market instrument, at the same time such information is provided to the nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
(D) Post on such password-protected Internet Web site all information the issuer, sponsor, or underwriter provides to the nationally recognized statistical rating organization, or contracts with a third party to provide to the nationally recognized statistical rating organization, for the purpose of undertaking credit rating surveillance on the security or money market instrument, including information about the characteristics and performance of the assets underlying or referenced by the security or money market instrument at the same time such information is provided to the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(E) Post on such password-protected Internet Web site, promptly after receipt, any executed Form ABS Due Diligence-15E (§ 249b.500 of this chapter) containing information about the security or money market instrument delivered by a person employed to provide third-party due diligence services with respect to the security or money market instrument.
(iv) The provisions of paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section will not apply to a nationally recognized statistical rating organization when issuing or maintaining a credit rating for a security or money market instrument issued by an asset pool or as part of any asset-backed securities transaction, if:
(A) The issuer of the security or money market instrument is not a U.S. person (as defined in § 230.902(k) of this chapter); and
(B) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization has a reasonable basis to conclude that all offers and sales of the security or money market instrument by any issuer, sponsor, or underwriter linked to the security or money market instrument will occur outside the United States (as that phrase is used in §§ 230.901 through 230.905 (Regulation S) of this chapter).
(b)
Conflicts of interest.
For purposes of this section, each of the following is a conflict of interest:
(1) Being paid by issuers or underwriters to determine credit ratings with respect to securities or money market instruments they issue or underwrite.
(2) Being paid by obligors to determine credit ratings with respect to the obligors.
(3) Being paid for services in addition to determining credit ratings by issuers, underwriters, or obligors that have paid the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to determine a credit rating.
(4) Being paid by persons for subscriptions to receive or access the credit ratings of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization and/or
for other services offered by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization where such persons may use the credit ratings of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to comply with, and obtain benefits or relief under, statutes and regulations using the term
nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(5) Being paid by persons for subscriptions to receive or access the credit ratings of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization and/or for other services offered by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization where such persons also may own investments or have entered into transactions that could be favorably or adversely impacted by a credit rating issued by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(6) Allowing persons within the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to directly own securities or money market instruments of, or having other direct ownership interests in, issuers or obligors subject to a credit rating determined by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(7) Allowing persons within the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to have a business relationship that is more than an arms length ordinary course of business relationship with issuers or obligors subject to a credit rating determined by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(8) Having a person associated with the nationally recognized statistical rating organization that is a broker or dealer engaged in the business of underwriting securities or money market instruments.
(9) Issuing or maintaining a credit rating for a security or money market instrument issued by an asset pool or as part of any asset-backed securities transaction that was paid for by the issuer, sponsor, or underwriter of the security or money market instrument;
(10) Any other type of conflict of interest relating to the issuance of credit ratings by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization that is material to the nationally recognized statistical rating organization and that is identified by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization in Exhibit 6 to Form NRSRO in accordance with section 15E(a)(1)(B)(vi) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(a)(1)(B)(vi)) and § 240.17g-1.
(c)
Prohibited conflicts.
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization is prohibited from having the following conflicts of interest relating to the issuance or maintenance of a credit rating as a credit rating agency:
(1) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization issues or maintains a credit rating solicited by a person that, in the most recently ended fiscal year, provided the nationally recognized statistical rating organization with net revenue (as reported under § 240.17g-3) equaling or exceeding 10% of the total net revenue of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization for the fiscal year;
(2) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization issues or maintains a credit rating with respect to a person (excluding a sovereign nation or an agency of a sovereign nation) where the nationally recognized statistical rating organization, a credit analyst that participated in determining the credit rating, or a person responsible for approving the credit rating, directly owns securities of, or has any other direct ownership interest in, the person that is subject to the credit rating;
(3) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization issues or maintains a credit rating with respect to a person associated with the nationally recognized statistical rating organization;
(4) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization issues or maintains a credit rating where a credit analyst who participated in determining the credit rating, or a person responsible for approving the credit rating, is an officer or director of the person that is subject to the credit rating;
(5) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization issues or maintains a credit rating with respect to an obligor or security where the nationally recognized statistical rating organization or a person associated
with the nationally recognized statistical rating organization made recommendations to the obligor or the issuer, underwriter, or sponsor of the security about the corporate or legal structure, assets, liabilities, or activities of the obligor or issuer of the security;
(6) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization issues or maintains a credit rating where the fee paid for the rating was negotiated, discussed, or arranged by a person within the nationally recognized statistical rating organization who has responsibility for participating in determining credit ratings or for developing or approving procedures or methodologies used for determining credit ratings, including qualitative and quantitative models;
(7) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization issues or maintains a credit rating where a credit analyst who participated in determining or monitoring the credit rating, or a person responsible for approving the credit rating received gifts, including entertainment, from the obligor being rated, or from the issuer, underwriter, or sponsor of the securities being rated, other than items provided in the context of normal business activities such as meetings that have an aggregate value of no more than $25; or
(8) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization issues or maintains a credit rating where a person within the nationally recognized statistical rating organization who participates in determining or monitoring the credit rating, or developing or approving procedures or methodologies used for determining the credit rating, including qualitative and quantitative models, also:
(i) Participates in sales or marketing of a product or service of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization or a product or service of an affiliate of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization; or
(ii) Is influenced by sales or marketing considerations.
(d) For the purposes of this section, the term
person within a nationally recognized statistical rating organization
means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, its credit rating affiliates identified on Form NRSRO, and any partner, officer, director, branch manager, and employee of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization or its credit rating affiliates (or any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions).
(e)
Certification.
In order to access a password-protected Internet Web site described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization must furnish to the Commission, for each calendar year for which it is requesting a password, the following certification, signed by a person duly authorized by the certifying entity:
The undersigned hereby certifies that it will access the Internet Web sites described in 17 CFR 240.17g-5(a)(3) solely for the purpose of determining or monitoring credit ratings. Further, the undersigned certifies that it will keep the information it accesses pursuant to 17 CFR 240.17g-5(a)(3) confidential and treat it as material nonpublic information subject to its written policies and procedures established, maintained, and enforced pursuant to section 15E(g)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(g)(1)) and 17 CFR 240.17g-4. Further, the undersigned certifies that it will determine and maintain credit ratings for at least 10% of the issued securities and money market instruments for which it accesses information pursuant to 17 CFR 240.17g-5(a)(3)(iii), if it accesses such information for 10 or more issued securities or money market instruments in the calendar year covered by the certification. Further, the undersigned certifies one of the following as applicable: (1) In the most recent calendar year during which it accessed information pursuant to 17 CFR 240.17g-5(a)(3), the undersigned accessed information for [Insert Number] issued securities and money market instruments through Internet Web sites described in 17 CFR 240.17g-5(a)(3) and determined and maintained credit ratings for [Insert Number] of such securities and money market instruments; or (2) The undersigned previously has not accessed information pursuant to 17 CFR 240.17g-5(a)(3) 10 or more times during the most recently ended calendar year.
(f) Upon written application by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, the Commission may exempt, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, such nationally recognized statistical rating organization from the provisions of paragraph (c)(8) of this section if the Commission finds that due to the small
size of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization it is not appropriate to require the separation within the nationally recognized statistical rating organization of the production of credit ratings from sales and marketing activities and such exemption is in the public interest.
(g) In a proceeding pursuant to section 15E(d)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(d)(1)), the Commission shall suspend or revoke the registration of a nationally recognized statistical rating organization if the Commission finds, in lieu of a finding specified under sections 15E(d)(1)(A), (B), (C), (D), (E), or (F) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(d)(1)(A) through (F)), that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization has violated a rule issued under section 15E(h) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(h)) and that the violation affected a credit rating.
[72 FR 33620, June 18, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 6482, Feb. 9, 2009; 74 FR 63864, Dec. 4, 2009; 79 FR 55264, Sept. 15, 2014; 79 FR 61576, Oct. 14, 2014; 84 FR 40258, Sept. 13, 2019]
§ 240.17g-6
Prohibited acts and practices.
(a)
Prohibitions.
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization is prohibited from engaging in any of the following unfair, coercive, or abusive practices:
(1) Conditioning or threatening to condition the issuance of a credit rating on the purchase by an obligor or issuer, or an affiliate of the obligor or issuer, of any other services or products, including pre-credit rating assessment products, of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization or any person associated with the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(2) Issuing, or offering or threatening to issue, a credit rating that is not determined in accordance with the nationally recognized statistical rating organization's established procedures and methodologies for determining credit ratings, based on whether the rated person, or an affiliate of the rated person, purchases or will purchase the credit rating or any other service or product of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization or any person associated with the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(3) Modifying, or offering or threatening to modify, a credit rating in a manner that is contrary to the nationally recognized statistical rating organization's established procedures and methodologies for modifying credit ratings based on whether the rated person, or an affiliate of the rated person, purchases or will purchase the credit rating or any other service or product of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization or any person associated with the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(4) Issuing or threatening to issue a lower credit rating, lowering or threatening to lower an existing credit rating, refusing to issue a credit rating, or withdrawing or threatening to withdraw a credit rating, with respect to securities or money market instruments issued by an asset pool or as part of any asset-backed securities transaction, unless all or a portion of the assets within such pool or part of such transaction also are rated by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization, where such practice is engaged in by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization for an anticompetitive purpose.
[13 FR 8178, Dec. 22, 1948, as amended at 79 FR 55264, Sept. 15, 2014]
§ 240.17g-7
Disclosure requirements.
(a)
Disclosures to be made when taking a rating action.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization must publish the items described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, as applicable, when taking a rating action with respect to a credit rating assigned to an obligor, security, or money market instrument in a class of credit ratings for which the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is registered. For purposes of this section, the term
rating action
means any of the following: the publication of an expected or preliminary credit rating assigned to an obligor, security, or money market instrument before the publication of an initial credit rating; an initial credit rating; an upgrade or downgrade of an existing credit rating (including a downgrade
to, or assignment of, default); and an affirmation or withdrawal of an existing credit rating if the affirmation or withdrawal is the result of a review of the credit rating assigned to the obligor, security, or money market instrument by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization using applicable procedures and methodologies for determining credit ratings. The items described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section must be published in the same manner as the credit rating that is the result or subject of the rating action and made available to the same persons who can receive or access the credit rating that is the result or subject of the rating action.
(1)
Information disclosure form.
A form generated by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization that meets the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i)
Format.
The form generated by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization must be in a format that:
(A) Organizes the information into numbered items that are identified by the type of information being disclosed and a reference to the paragraph in this section that specifies the disclosure of the information, and are in the order that the paragraphs specifying the information to be disclosed are codified in this section;
Note to paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A):
A given item in the form should be identified by a title that identifies the type of information and references paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (F), (G), (H), (I), (J), (K), (L), (M), (N), or (a)(2) of this section based on the information being disclosed in the item. For example, the information specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(C) of this section should be identified with the caption “Main Assumptions and Principles Used to Construct the Rating Methodology used to Determine the Credit Rating as required by Paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(C) of Rule 17g-7”). The form must organize the items of information in the following order: items 1 through 14 must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (N) of this section, respectively, and item 15 must contain the certifications specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section (the information specified in each paragraph comprising a separate item). For example, item 3 must contain the information specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(C) of this section.
(B) Is easy to use and helpful for users of credit ratings to understand the information contained in the form; and
(C) Provides the content described in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(K) through (M) of this section in a manner that is directly comparable across types of obligors, securities, and money market instruments.
(ii)
Content.
The form generated by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization must contain the following information about the credit rating:
(A) The symbol, number, or score in the rating scale used by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to denote credit rating categories and notches within categories assigned to the obligor, security, or money market instrument that is the subject of the credit rating and, as applicable, the identity of the obligor or the identity and a description of the security or money market instrument;
(B) The version of the procedure or methodology used to determine the credit rating;
(C) The main assumptions and principles used in constructing the procedures and methodologies used to determine the credit rating, including qualitative methodologies and quantitative inputs, and, if the credit rating is for a structured finance product, assumptions about the correlation of defaults across the underlying assets;
(D) The potential limitations of the credit rating, including the types of risks excluded from the credit rating that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization does not comment on, including, as applicable, liquidity, market, and other risks;
(E) Information on the uncertainty of the credit rating including:
(
1
) Information on the reliability, accuracy, and quality of the data relied on in determining the credit rating; and
(
2
) A statement relating to the extent to which data essential to the determination of the credit rating were reliable or limited, including:
(
i
) Any limits on the scope of historical data; and
(
ii
) Any limits on accessibility to certain documents or other types of information that would have better informed the credit rating;
(F) Whether and to what extent the nationally recognized statistical rating organization used due diligence services of a third party in taking the rating action, and, if the nationally recognized statistical rating organization used such services, either:
(
1
) A description of the information that the third party reviewed in conducting the due diligence services and a summary of the findings and conclusions of the third party; or
(
2
) A cross-reference to a Form ABS Due Diligence-15E executed by the third party that is published with the form, provided the cross-referenced Form ABS Due Diligence-15E (§ 249b.500 of this chapter) contains a description of the information that the third party reviewed in conducting the due diligence services and a summary of the findings and conclusions of the third party;
(G) If applicable, how servicer or remittance reports were used, and with what frequency, to conduct surveillance of the credit rating;
(H) A description of the types of data about any obligor, issuer, security, or money market instrument that were relied upon for the purpose of determining the credit rating;
(I) A statement containing an overall assessment of the quality of information available and considered in determining the credit rating for the obligor, security, or money market instrument, in relation to the quality of information available to the nationally recognized statistical rating organization in rating similar obligors, securities, or money market instruments;
(J) Information relating to conflicts of interest of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization, which must include:
(
1
) As applicable, a statement that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization was:
(
i
) Paid to determine the credit rating by the obligor being rated or the issuer, underwriter, depositor, or sponsor of the security or money market instrument being rated;
(
ii
) Paid to determine the credit rating by a person other than the obligor being rated or the issuer, underwriter, depositor, or sponsor of the security or money market instrument being rated; or
(
iii
) Not paid to determine the credit rating;
(
2
) If applicable, in a statement required under paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(J)(
1
)(
i
) or (
ii
) of this section, a statement that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization also was paid for services other than determining credit ratings during the most recently ended fiscal year by the person that paid the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to determine the credit rating; and
(
3
) If the rating action results from a review conducted pursuant to section 15E(h)(4)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(h)(4)(A)) and § 240.17g-8(c), the following information (as applicable):
(
i
) If the rating action is a revision of a credit rating pursuant to § 240.17g-8(c)(2)(i)(A), an explanation that the reason for the action is the discovery that a credit rating assigned to the obligor, security, or money market instrument in one or more prior rating actions was influenced by a conflict of interest, including a description of the nature of the conflict, the date and associated credit rating of each prior rating action that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization has determined was influenced by the conflict, and a description of the impact the conflict had on the prior rating action or actions; or
(
ii
) If the rating action is an affirmation of a credit rating pursuant to § 240.17g-8(c)(2)(i)(B), an explanation that the reason for the action is the discovery that a credit rating assigned to the obligor, security, or money market instrument in one or more prior rating actions was influenced by a conflict of interest, including a description of the nature of the conflict, an explanation of why no rating action was taken to revise the credit rating notwithstanding the presence of the conflict, the date and associated credit rating of each prior rating action the nationally recognized statistical rating
organization has determined was influenced by the conflict, and a description of the impact the conflict had on the prior rating action or actions.
(K) An explanation or measure of the potential volatility of the credit rating, including:
(
1
) Any factors that are reasonably likely to lead to a change in the credit rating; and
(
2
) The magnitude of the change that could occur under different market conditions determined by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to be relevant to the rating;
(L) Information on the content of the credit rating, including:
(
1
) If applicable, the historical performance of the credit rating; and
(
2
) The expected probability of default and the expected loss in the event of default;
(M) Information on the sensitivity of the credit rating to assumptions made by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization, including:
(
1
) Five assumptions made in the ratings process that, without accounting for any other factor, would have the greatest impact on the credit rating if the assumptions were proven false or inaccurate; provided that, if the nationally recognized statistical rating organization has made fewer than five such assumptions, it need only disclose information on the assumptions that would have an impact on the credit rating; and
(
2
) An analysis, using specific examples, of how each of the assumptions identified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(M)(
1
) of this section impacts the credit rating;
(N)(
1
) If the credit rating is assigned to an asset-backed security as defined in section 3(a)(79) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79)), information on:
(
i
) The representations, warranties, and enforcement mechanisms available to investors which were disclosed in the prospectus, private placement memorandum or other offering documents for the asset-backed security and that relate to the asset pool underlying the asset-backed security; and
(
ii
) How they differ from the representations, warranties, and enforcement mechanisms in issuances of similar securities;
(
2
) A nationally recognized statistical rating organization must include the information required under paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(N)(
1
) of this section only if the rating action is a preliminary credit rating, an initial credit rating, or, in the case of a rating action other than a preliminary credit rating or initial credit rating, the rating action is the first rating action taken after a material change in the representations, warranties, or enforcement mechanisms described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(N)(
1
) of this section and the rating action involves an asset-backed security that was initially rated by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization on or after September 26, 2011.
(iii)
Attestation.
The nationally recognized statistical rating organization must attach to the form a signed statement by a person within the nationally recognized statistical rating organization stating that the person has responsibility for the rating action and, to the best knowledge of the person:
(A) No part of the credit rating was influenced by any other business activities;
(B) The credit rating was based solely upon the merits of the obligor, security, or money market instrument being rated; and
(C) The credit rating was an independent evaluation of the credit risk of the obligor, security, or money market instrument.
(2)
Third-party due diligence certification.
Any executed Form ABS Due Diligence-15E (§ 249b.500 of this chapter) containing information about the security or money market instrument subject to the rating action that is received by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization or obtained by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization through an Internet Web site maintained by the issuer, sponsor, or underwriter of the security or money market instrument pursuant to § 240.17g-5(a)(3).
(3)
Exemption.
The provisions of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply to a rating action if:
(i) The rated obligor or issuer of the rated security or money market instrument is not a U.S. person (as defined in § 230.902(k) of this chapter); and
(ii) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization has a reasonable basis to conclude that:
(A) With respect to any security or money market instrument issued by a rated obligor, all offers and sales by any issuer, sponsor, or underwriter linked to the security or money market instrument will occur outside the United States (as that phrase is used in §§ 230.901 through 230.905 (Regulation S) of this chapter); or
(B) With respect to a rated security or money market instrument, all offers and sales by any issuer, sponsor, or underwriter linked to the security or money market instrument will occur outside the United States (as that phrase is used in §§ 230.901 through 230.905 (Regulation S) of this chapter).
(b)
Disclosure of credit rating histories
—(1)
Credit ratings subject to the disclosure requirement.
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization must publicly disclose for free on an easily accessible portion of its corporate Internet Web site:
(i) For a class of credit rating in which the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is registered with the Commission as of the effective date of paragraph (b) of this section, the credit rating assigned to each obligor, security, and money market instrument in the class that was outstanding as of, or initially determined on or after, the date three years prior to the effective date of this rule, and any subsequent upgrade or downgrade of the credit rating (including a downgrade to, or assignment of, default), and a withdrawal of the credit rating; and
(ii) For a class of credit rating in which the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is registered with the Commission after the effective date of paragraph (b) of this section, the credit rating assigned to each obligor, security, and money market instrument in the class that was outstanding as of, or initially determined on or after, the date three years prior to the date the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is registered in the class, and any subsequent upgrade or downgrade of the credit rating (including a downgrade to, or assignment of, default), and a withdrawal of the credit rating.
(2)
Information.
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization must include, at a minimum, the following information with each credit rating disclosed pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section:
(i) The identity of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization disclosing the rating action;
(ii) The date of the rating action;
(iii) If the rating action is taken with respect to a credit rating of an obligor as an entity, the following identifying information about the obligor, as applicable:
(A) The Legal Entity Identifier issued by a utility endorsed or otherwise governed by the Global LEI Regulatory Oversight Committee or the Global LEI Foundation (LEI) of the obligor, if available, or, if an LEI is not available, the Central Index Key (CIK) number of the obligor, if available; and
(B) The name of the obligor.
(iv) If the rating action is taken with respect to a credit rating of a security or money market instrument, as applicable:
(A) The LEI of the issuer of the security or money market instrument, if available, or, if an LEI is not available, the CIK number of the issuer of the security or money market instrument, if available;
(B) The name of the issuer of the security or money market instrument; and
(C) The CUSIP of the security or money market instrument;
(v) A classification of the rating action as either:
(A) An addition to the rating history disclosure because the credit rating was outstanding as of the date three years prior to the effective date of the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section or because the credit rating was outstanding as of the date three years prior to the nationally recognized statistical rating organization becoming registered in the class of credit ratings;
(B) An initial credit rating;
(C) An upgrade of an existing credit rating;
(D) A downgrade of an existing credit rating, which would include classifying
the obligor, security, or money market instrument as in default, if applicable; or
(E) A withdrawal of an existing credit rating and, if the classification is withdrawal, the nationally recognized statistical rating organization also must classify the reason for the withdrawal as either:
(
1
) The obligor defaulted, or the security or money market instrument went into default;
(
2
) The obligation subject to the credit rating was extinguished by payment in full of all outstanding principal and interest due on the obligation according to the terms of the obligation; or
(
3
) The credit rating was withdrawn for reasons other than those set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(v)(E)(
1
) or (
2
) of this section; and
(vi) The classification of the class or subclass that applies to the credit rating as either:
(A) Financial institutions, brokers, or dealers;
(B) Insurance companies;
(C) Corporate issuers; or
(D) Issuers of structured finance products in one of the following subclasses:
(
1
) Residential mortgage backed securities (“RMBS”) (for purposes of this subclass, RMBS means a securitization primarily of residential mortgages);
(
2
) Commercial mortgage backed securities (“CMBS”) (for purposes of this subclass, CMBS means a securitization primarily of commercial mortgages);
(
3
) Collateralized loan obligations (“CLOs”) (for purposes of this subclass, a CLO means a securitization primarily of commercial loans);
(
4
) Collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”) (for purposes of this subclass, a CDO means a securitization primarily of other debt instruments such as RMBS, CMBS, CLOs, CDOs, other asset backed securities, and corporate bonds);
(
5
) Asset-backed commercial paper conduits (“ABCP”) (for purposes of this subclass, ABCP means short term notes issued by a structure that securitizes a variety of financial assets, such as trade receivables or credit card receivables, which secure the notes);
(
6
) Other asset-backed securities (“other ABS”) (for purposes of this subclass, other ABS means a securitization primarily of auto loans, auto leases, floor plans, credit card receivables, student loans, consumer loans, or equipment leases); or
(
7
) Other structured finance products (“other SFPs”) (for purposes of this subclass, other SFPs means any structured finance product not identified in paragraphs (b)(2)(iv)(D)(
1
) through (
6
)) of this section; or
(E) Issuers of government securities, municipal securities, or securities issued by a foreign government in one of the following subclasses:
(
1
) Sovereign issuers;
(
2
) U.S. public finance; or
(
3
) International public finance; and
(vii) The credit rating symbol, number, or score in the applicable rating scale of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization assigned to the obligor, security, or money market instrument as a result of the rating action or, if the credit rating remained unchanged as a result of the action, the credit rating symbol, number, or score in the applicable rating scale of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization assigned to the obligor, security, or money market instrument as of the date of the rating action (in either case, include a credit rating in a default category, if applicable).
(3)
Format and frequency of updating.
The information identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section must be disclosed in an interactive data file that uses an XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language) format and the List of XBRL Tags for nationally recognized statistical rating organizations as published on the Internet Web site of the Commission, and must be updated no less frequently than monthly.
(4)
Timing.
The nationally recognized statistical rating organization must disclose the information required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section:
(i) Within twelve months from the date the rating action is taken, if the credit rating subject to the action was paid for by the obligor being rated or by the issuer, underwriter, depositor, or sponsor of the security being rated; or
(ii) Within twenty-four months from the date the rating action is taken, if the credit rating subject to the action
is not a credit rating described in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.
(5)
Removal of a credit rating history.
The nationally recognized statistical rating organization may cease disclosing a rating history of an obligor, security, or money market instrument if at least 15 years have elapsed since a rating action classified as a withdrawal of a credit rating pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(v)(E) of this section was disclosed in the rating history of the obligor, security, or money market instrument.
[79 FR 55264, Sept. 15, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 40258, Sept. 13, 2019]
§ 240.17g-8
Policies, procedures, and internal controls.
(a)
Policies and procedures with respect to the procedures and methodologies used to determine credit ratings.
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization must establish, maintain, enforce, and document policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure:
(1) That the procedures and methodologies, including qualitative and quantitative data and models, the nationally recognized statistical rating organization uses to determine credit ratings are approved by its board of directors or a body performing a function similar to that of a board of directors.
(2) That the procedures and methodologies, including qualitative and quantitative data and models, the nationally recognized statistical rating organization uses to determine credit ratings are developed and modified in accordance with the policies and procedures of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
(3) That material changes to the procedures and methodologies, including changes to qualitative and quantitative data and models, the nationally recognized statistical rating organization uses to determine credit ratings are:
(i) Applied consistently to all current and future credit ratings to which the changed procedures or methodologies apply; and
(ii) To the extent that the changes are to surveillance or monitoring procedures and methodologies, applied to current credit ratings to which the changed procedures or methodologies apply within a reasonable period of time, taking into consideration the number of credit ratings impacted, the complexity of the procedures and methodologies used to determine the credit ratings, and the type of obligor, security, or money market instrument being rated.
(4) That the nationally recognized statistical rating organization promptly publishes on an easily accessible portion of its corporate Internet Web site:
(i) Material changes to the procedures and methodologies, including to qualitative models or quantitative inputs, the nationally recognized statistical rating organization uses to determine credit ratings, the reason for the changes, and the likelihood the changes will result in changes to any current credit ratings; and
(ii) Notice of the existence of a significant error identified in a procedure or methodology, including a qualitative or quantitative model, the nationally recognized statistical rating organization uses to determine credit ratings that may result in a change to current credit ratings.
(5) That the nationally recognized statistical rating organization discloses the version of a credit rating procedure or methodology, including the qualitative methodology or quantitative inputs, used with respect to a particular credit rating.
(b)
Policies and procedures with respect to credit rating symbols, numbers, or scores.
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization must establish, maintain, enforce, and document policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to:
(1) Assess the probability that an issuer of a security or money market instrument will default, fail to make timely payments, or otherwise not make payments to investors in accordance with the terms of the security or money market instrument.
(2) Clearly define each symbol, number, or score in the rating scale used by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to denote a credit rating category and notches within a category for each class of credit ratings for which the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is
registered (including subclasses within each class) and to include such definitions in Exhibit 1 to Form NRSRO (§ 249b.300 of this chapter).
(3) Apply any symbol, number, or score defined pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section in a manner that is consistent for all types of obligors, securities, and money market instruments for which the symbol, number, or score is used.
(c)
Policies and procedures with respect to look-back reviews.
The policies and procedures a nationally recognized statistical rating organization is required to establish, maintain, and enforce pursuant to section 15E(h)(4)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(h)(4)(A)) must address instances in which a review conducted pursuant to those policies and procedures determines that a conflict of interest influenced a credit rating assigned to an obligor, security, or money market instrument by including, at a minimum, procedures that are reasonably designed to ensure that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization will:
(1) Promptly determine whether the current credit rating assigned to the obligor, security, or money market instrument must be revised so that it no longer is influenced by a conflict of interest and is solely a product of the documented procedures and methodologies the nationally recognized statistical rating organization uses to determine credit ratings; and
(2)(i) Promptly publish, based on the determination of whether a current credit rating referred to in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be revised (as applicable):
(A) A revised credit rating, if appropriate, and include with the publication of the revised credit rating the information required by § 240.17g-7(a)(1)(ii)(J)(
3
)(
i
); or
(B) An affirmation of the credit rating, if appropriate, and include with the publication of the affirmation the information required by § 240.17g-7(a)(1)(ii)(J)(
3
)(
ii
).
(ii) If the credit rating is not revised or affirmed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section within fifteen calendar days of the date of the discovery that the credit rating was influenced by a conflict of interest, publish a rating action placing the credit rating on watch or review and include with the publication an explanation that the reason for the action is the discovery that the credit rating was influenced by a conflict of interest.
(d)
Internal control structures.
A nationally recognized statistical rating organization must take into consideration the factors identified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section when establishing, maintaining, enforcing, and documenting an effective internal control structure governing the implementation of and adherence to policies, procedures, and methodologies for determining credit ratings pursuant to section 15E(c)(3)(A) of the Act.
(1) With respect to establishing the internal control structure, the nationally recognized statistical rating organization must take into consideration:
(i) Controls reasonably designed to ensure that a newly developed methodology or proposed update to an in-use methodology for determining credit ratings is subject to an appropriate review process (for example, by persons who are independent from the persons that developed the methodology or methodology update) and to management approval prior to the new or updated methodology being employed by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to determine credit ratings;
(ii) Controls reasonably designed to ensure that a newly developed methodology or update to an in-use methodology for determining credit ratings is disclosed to the public for consultation prior to the new or updated methodology being employed by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to determine credit ratings, that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization makes comments received as part of the consultation publicly available, and that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization considers the comments before implementing the methodology;
(iii) Controls reasonably designed to ensure that in-use methodologies for determining credit ratings are periodically reviewed (for example, by persons who are independent from the persons
who developed and/or use the methodology) in order to analyze whether the methodology should be updated;
(iv) Controls reasonably designed to ensure that market participants have an opportunity to provide comment on whether in-use methodologies for determining credit ratings should be updated, that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization makes any such comments received publicly available, and that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization considers the comments;
(v) Controls reasonably designed to ensure that newly developed or updated quantitative models proposed to be incorporated into a credit rating methodology are evaluated and validated prior to being put into use;
(vi) Controls reasonably designed to ensure that quantitative models incorporated into in-use credit rating methodologies are periodically reviewed and back-tested;
(vii) Controls reasonably designed to ensure that a nationally recognized statistical rating organization engages in analysis before commencing the rating of a class of obligors, securities, or money market instruments the nationally recognized statistical rating organization has not previously rated to determine whether the nationally recognized statistical rating organization has sufficient competency, access to necessary information, and resources to rate the type of obligor, security, or money market instrument;
(viii) Controls reasonably designed to ensure that a nationally recognized statistical rating organization engages in analysis before commencing the rating of an “exotic” or “bespoke” type of obligor, security, or money market instrument to review the feasibility of determining a credit rating;
(ix) Controls reasonably designed to ensure that measures (for example, statistics) are used to evaluate the performance of credit ratings as part of the review of in-use methodologies for determining credit ratings to analyze whether the methodologies should be updated or the work of the analysts employing the methodologies should be reviewed;
(x) Controls reasonably designed to ensure that, with respect to determining credit ratings, the work and conclusions of the lead credit analyst developing an initial credit rating or conducting surveillance on an existing credit rating is reviewed by other analysts, supervisors, or senior managers before a rating action is formally taken (for example, having the work reviewed through a rating committee process);
(xi) Controls reasonably designed to ensure that a credit analyst documents the steps taken in developing an initial credit rating or conducting surveillance on an existing credit rating with sufficient detail to permit an after-the-fact review or internal audit of the rating file to analyze whether the analyst adhered to the nationally recognized statistical rating organization's procedures and methodologies for determining credit ratings;
(xii) Controls reasonably designed to ensure that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization conducts periodic reviews or internal audits of rating files to analyze whether analysts adhere to the nationally recognized statistical rating organization's procedures and methodologies for determining credit ratings; and
(xiii) Any other controls necessary to establish an effective internal control structure taking into consideration the nature of the business of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization, including its size, activities, organizational structure, and business model.
(2) With respect to maintaining the internal control structure, the nationally recognized statistical rating organization must take into consideration:
(i) Controls reasonably designed to ensure that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization conducts periodic reviews of whether it has devoted sufficient resources to implement and operate the documented internal control structure as designed;
(ii) Controls reasonably designed to ensure that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization conducts periodic reviews or ongoing monitoring to evaluate the effectiveness of the internal control structure and whether it should be updated;
(iii) Controls reasonably designed to ensure that any identified deficiencies
in the internal control structure are assessed and addressed on a timely basis;
(iv) Any other controls necessary to maintain an effective internal control structure taking into consideration the nature of the business of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization, including its size, activities, organizational structure, and business model.
(3) With respect to enforcing the internal control structure, the nationally recognized statistical rating organization must take into consideration:
(i) Controls designed to ensure that additional training is provided or discipline taken with respect to employees who fail to adhere to requirements imposed by the internal control structure;
(ii) Controls designed to ensure that a process is in place for employees to report failures to adhere to the internal control structure; and
(iii) Any other controls necessary to enforce an effective internal control structure taking into consideration the nature of the business of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization, including its size, activities, organizational structure, and business model.
(4) With respect to documenting the internal control structure, the nationally recognized statistical rating organization must take into consideration any controls necessary to document an effective internal control structure taking into consideration the nature of the business of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization, including its size, activities, organizational structure, and business model.
[79 FR 55267, Sept. 15, 2014]
§ 240.17g-9
Standards of training, experience, and competence for credit analysts.
(a) A nationally recognized statistical rating organization must establish, maintain, enforce, and document standards of training, experience, and competence for the individuals it employs to participate in the determination of credit ratings that are reasonably designed to achieve the objective that the nationally recognized statistical rating organization produces accurate credit ratings in the classes of credit ratings for which the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is registered.
(b) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization must consider the following when establishing the standards required under paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) If the credit rating procedures and methodologies used by the individual involve qualitative analysis, the knowledge necessary to effectively evaluate and process the data relevant to the creditworthiness of the obligor being rated or the issuer of the securities or money market instruments being rated;
(2) If the credit rating procedures and methodologies used by the individual involve quantitative analysis, the technical expertise necessary to understand any models and model inputs that are a part of the procedures and methodologies;
(3) The classes and subclasses of credit ratings for which the individual participates in determining credit ratings and the factors relevant to such classes and subclasses, including the geographic location, sector, industry, regulatory and legal framework, and underlying assets, applicable to the obligors or issuers in the classes and subclasses; and
(4) The complexity of the obligors, securities, or money market instruments for which the individual participates in determining credit ratings.
(c) The nationally recognized statistical rating organization must include the following in the standards required under paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) A requirement for periodic testing of the individuals employed by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to participate in the determination of credit ratings on their knowledge of the procedures and methodologies used by the nationally recognized statistical rating organization to determine credit ratings in the classes and subclasses of credit ratings for which the individual participates in determining credit ratings; and
(2) A requirement that at least one individual with an appropriate level of
experience in performing credit analysis, but not less than three years, participates in the determination of a credit rating.
[79 FR 55269, Sept. 15, 2014]
§ 240.17g-10
Certification of providers of third-party due diligence services in connection with asset-backed securities.
(a) The written certification that a person employed to provide third-party due diligence services is required to provide to a nationally recognized statistical rating organization pursuant to section 15E(s)(4)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(s)(4)(B)) must be on Form ABS Due Diligence-15E (§ 249b.500 of this chapter).
(b) The written certification must be signed by an individual who is duly authorized by the person providing the third-party due diligence services to make such a certification.
(c) A person employed to provide third-party due diligence services will be deemed to have satisfied its obligations under section 15E(s)(4)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(s)(4)(B)) if the person promptly delivers an executed Form ABS Due Diligence-15E (§ 249b.500 of this chapter) after completion of the due diligence services to:
(1) A nationally recognized statistical rating organization that provided a written request for the Form prior to the completion of the due diligence services stating that the services relate to a credit rating the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is producing;
(2) A nationally recognized statistical rating organization that provides a written request for the Form after the completion of the due diligence services stating that the services relate to a credit rating the nationally recognized statistical rating organization is producing; and
(3) The issuer or underwriter of the asset-backed security for which the due diligence services relate that maintains the Internet Web site with respect to the asset-backed security pursuant to § 240.17g-5(a)(3).
(d) For purposes of section 15E(s)(4)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7(s)(4)(B)) and this section:
(1) The term
due diligence services
means a review of the assets underlying an asset-backed security, as defined in section 3(a)(79) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79)) for the purpose of making findings with respect to:
(i) The accuracy of the information or data about the assets provided, directly or indirectly, by the securitizer or originator of the assets;
(ii) Whether the origination of the assets conformed to, or deviated from, stated underwriting or credit extension guidelines, standards, criteria, or other requirements;
(iii) The value of collateral securing the assets;
(iv) Whether the originator of the assets complied with federal, state, or local laws or regulations; or
(v) Any other factor or characteristic of the assets that would be material to the likelihood that the issuer of the asset-backed security will pay interest and principal in accordance with applicable terms and conditions.
(2) The term
issuer
includes a sponsor, as defined in § 229.1101 of this chapter, or depositor, as defined in § 229.1101 of this chapter, that participates in the issuance of an asset-backed security, as defined in section 3(a)(79) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79)).
(3) The term
originator
has the same meaning as in section 15G(a)(4) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-9(a)(4)).
(4) The term
securitizer
has the same meaning as in section 15G(a)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-9(a)(3)).
[79 FR 55270, Sept. 15, 2014]
§ 240.17h-1T
Risk assessment recordkeeping requirements for associated persons of brokers and dealers.
(a)
Requirement to maintain and preserve information.
(1) Every broker or dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15 of the Act, and every municipal securities dealer registered pursuant to Section 15B of the Act for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency, unless exempt pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, shall maintain and preserve the following information:
(i) An organizational chart which includes the broker or dealer and all its
associated persons. Included in the organizational chart shall be a designation of which associated persons are Material Associated Persons as that term is used in paragraph (a)(2) of this section;
(ii) Written policies, procedures, or systems concerning the broker or dealer's:
(A) Method(s) for monitoring and controlling financial and operational risks to it resulting from the activities of any of its associated persons, other than a natural person;
(B) Financing and capital adequacy, including information regarding sources of funding, together with a narrative discussion by management of the liquidity of the material assets, the structure of debt capital, and sources of alternative funding; and
(C) Trading positions and risks, such as records regarding reporting responsibilities for trading activities, policies relating to restrictions or limitations on trading securities and financial instruments or products, and a description of the types of reviews conducted to monitor existing positions, and limitations or restrictions on trading activities.
(iii) A description of all material pending legal or arbitration proceedings involving a Material Associated Person or the broker or dealer that are required to be disclosed by the ultimate holding company under generally accepted accounting principles on a consolidated basis;
(iv) Consolidated and consolidating balance sheets, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which may be unaudited and which shall include the notes to the financial statements, as of quarter end for the broker or dealer and its ultimate holding company;
(v) Quarterly consolidated and consolidating income statements and consolidated cash flow statements, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which may be unaudited and which shall include the notes to the financial statements, for the broker or dealer and its ultimate holding company;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(1)(
v

# ).
Statements of comprehensive income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X of this chapter) must be included in place of income statements, if required by the applicable generally accepted accounting principles.
(vi) The amount as of quarter end, and at month end if greater than quarter end, of the aggregate long and short securities and commodities positions held by each Material Associated Person, including a separate listing of each single unhedged securities or commodities position, other than U.S. government or agency securities, that exceeds the Materiality Threshold at any month end;
(vii) The notional or contractual amounts, and in the case of options, the value of the underlying instruments, as of quarter end, of financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk and financial instruments with concentrations of credit risk where the Material Associated Person operates a trading book, with a separate entry of each commitment where the credit risk (defined as the possibility that a loss may occur from the failure of another party to perform according to the terms of a contract) with respect to a counterparty exceeds the Materiality Threshold at quarter end;
(viii) The aggregate amount as of quarter end, and the amount at month end if greater than quarter end, of all bridge loans and those other material unsecured extensions of credit (not including intra-group receivables) with an initial or remaining maturity of less than one year by each Material Associated Person, together with the allowance for losses for such transactions, including a specific description of any extensions of credit to a single borrower exceeding the Materiality Threshold at any month end;
(ix) The aggregate amount as of quarter end, and the amount at month end if greater than quarter end, of commercial paper, secured and other unsecured borrowing, bank loans, lines of credit, or any other borrowings, and the principal installments of long-term or medium-term debt, scheduled to mature within twelve months from the most recent fiscal quarter for the broker or dealer and each Material Associated Person; and
(x) Data relating to real estate activities, including mortgage loans and
investments in real estate, but not including trading positions in whole loans, conducted by each Material Associated Person, including:
(A) Real estate loans and investments by type of property, such as construction and development, residential, commercial and industrial or farmland;
(B) The geographic distribution, as of quarter end, by type of loan or investment where the amount exceeds the Materiality Threshold at quarter end;
(C) The aggregate carrying value of loans which each Material Associated Person deems to be not current as to interest or principal, together with the Material Associated Person's criteria for the determination of which loans are not current, or which are in the process of foreclosure or that have been restructured;
(D) The allowance for losses on loans and on investment real estate by type of loan or investment, and the activity in the allowance for losses account; and
(E) Information about risk concentration in the real estate investment and loan portfolio, including information about risk concentration to a single borrower or location of property if the risk concentration exceeds the Materiality Threshold at quarter end.
(2) The determination of whether an associated person of a broker or dealer is a Material Associated Person shall involve consideration of all aspects of the activities of, and the relationship between, both entities, including without limitation, the following factors:
(i) The legal relationship between the broker or dealer and the associated person;
(ii) The overall financing requirements of the broker or dealer and the associated person, and the degree, if any, to which the broker or dealer and the associated person are financially dependent on each other;
(iii) The degree, if any, to which the broker or dealer or its customers rely on the associated person for operational support or services in connection with the broker's or dealer's business;
(iv) The level of risk present in the activities of the broker's or dealer's associated persons; and
(v) The extent to which the associated person has the authority or the ability to cause a withdrawal of capital from the broker or dealer.
(3) The information, reports and records required by the provisions of this section shall be maintained and preserved in accordance with the provisions of § 240.17a-4 and shall be kept for a period of not less than three years in an easily accessible place.
(4) For the purposes of this section and § 240.17h-2T, the term “Materiality Threshold” shall mean the greater of:
(i) $100 million; or
(ii) 10 percent of the broker or dealer's tentative net capital based on the most recently filed Form X-17A-5 or 10 percent of the Material Associated Person's tangible net worth, whichever is greater.
(b)
Special provisions with respect to material associated persons subject to the supervision of certain domestic regulators.
A broker or dealer shall be deemed to be in compliance with the recordkeeping requirements of paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a Material Associated Person if:
(1) Such Material Associated Person is subject to examination by, or the reporting requirements of, a Federal banking agency and the broker or dealer maintains in accordance with the provisions of this section copies of all reports submitted by such Material Associated Person with the Federal banking agency pursuant to section 5211 of the Revised Statutes, section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act, section 7(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, section 10(b) of the Home Owners' Loan Act, or section 5 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 other than the Form FR 2068; or
(2) If such Material Associated Person is subject to the supervision of an insurance commissioner or other similar official or agency of a state, and the broker or dealer maintains in accordance with the provisions of this section copies of the Annual and Quarterly Statements with Schedules and Exhibits prepared by the insurance company on forms prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners; or
(3) In the event an insurance company is not required to prepare Quarterly Statements on forms prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, the broker or dealer must maintain and preserve the records required by paragraph (a) of this section on a quarterly basis; or
(4) In the case of a Material Associated Person that is subject to the supervision of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the broker or dealer maintains in accordance with the provisions of this section copies of the reports filed on Forms 1 FR-FCM or 1 FR-IB by such Material Associated Person with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(c)
Special provisions with respect to material associated persons subject to the supervision of a foreign financial regulatory authority.
A broker or dealer shall be deemed to be in compliance with the recordkeeping requirements of paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a Material Associated Person if such broker or dealer maintains in accordance with the provisions of this section copies of the reports filed by such Material Associated Persons with a Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority. The broker or dealer shall maintain a copy of the original report and a copy translated into the English language. For the purposes of this section, the term Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority shall have the meaning set forth in section 3(a)(51) of the Act.
(d)
Exemptions.
(1) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any broker or dealer which is exempt from the provisions of § 240.15c3-3:
(i) Pursuant to paragraph (k)(1) of § 240.15c3-3; or
(ii) Pursuant to paragraph (k)(2) of § 240.15c3-3; or
(iii) If the broker or dealer does not qualify for an exemption from the provisions of § 240.15c3-3 and such broker or dealer does not hold funds or securities for, or owe money or securities to, customers and does not carry the accounts of or for customers; unless
(iv) In the case of paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) or (d)(1)(iii) of this section, the broker or dealer maintains capital including debt subordinated in accordance with appendix D of § 240.15c3-1 equal to or greater than $20,000,000.
(2) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any broker or dealer which maintains capital including debt subordinated in accordance with appendix D of section 240.15c3-1 of less than $250,000, even if the broker or dealer hold funds or securities for, or owes money or securities to, customers or carries the accounts of or for customers.
(3) In calculating capital for the purposes of this paragraph, a broker or dealer shall include the equity capital and subordinated debt of any other registered brokers or dealers that are associated with the broker or dealer and are not otherwise exempt from the provisions pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.
(4) The provisions of this section shall not apply to a broker or dealer that computes certain of its capital charges in accordance with § 240.15c3-1e if that broker or dealer is affiliated with an ultimate holding company that is not an ultimate holding company that has a principal regulator, as defined in § 240.15c3-1(c)(13).
(5) The Commission may, upon written application by a Reporting Broker or Dealer, exempt from the provisions of this section, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, any brokers or dealers associated with such Reporting Broker or Dealer. The term “Reporting Broker or Dealer” shall mean, in the case of a broker or dealer that is associated with other registered brokers or dealers, the broker or dealer which maintains the greatest amount of net capital as reported on its most recently fixed Form X-17A-5. In granting exemptions under this section, the Commission shall consider, among other factors, whether the records and other information required to be maintained pursuant to this section concerning the Material Associated Persons of the broker or dealer associated with the Reporting Broker or Dealer will be available to the Commission pursuant to § 240.17h-2T.
(e)
Location of records.
A broker or dealer required to maintain records
concerning a Material Associated Person pursuant to this section may maintain those records either at the Material Associated Person or at a records storage facility provided that the records are located within the boundaries of the United States and the records are kept in an easily accessible place, as that term is used in § 240.17a-4. In order to operate pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph, the Material Associated Person or other entity maintaining the records shall file with the Commission a written undertaking in form acceptable to the Commission, signed by a duly authorized person, to the effect that the records will be treated as if the broker or dealer was maintaining the records pursuant to this section and that the entity maintaining the records undertakes to permit examination of such records at any time or from time to time during business hours by representatives or designees of the Commission and to promptly furnish the Commission or its designee true, correct, complete and current hard copy of any or all or any part of such records. The election to operate pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph shall not relieve the broker or dealer required to maintain and preserve such records from any of its responsibilities under this section or section 240.17h-2T.
(f)
Confidentiality.
All information obtained by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of this section from a broker or dealer concerning a Material Associated Person shall be deemed confidential information for the purposes of section 24(b) of the Act.
(g)
Temporary implementation schedule.
Every broker or dealer subject to the requirements of this section shall maintain and preserve the information required by paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section commencing September 30, 1992. Commencing December 31, 1992, the provisions of this section shall apply in their entirety.
[57 FR 32168, July 21, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 25774, Apr. 28, 1993; 69 FR 34472, June 21, 2004; 69 FR 34494, June 21, 2004; 76 FR 50122, Aug. 12, 2011; 78 FR 42865, July 18, 2013; 83 FR 50223, Oct. 4, 2018]
§ 240.17h-2T
Risk assessment reporting requirements for brokers and dealers.
(a)
Reporting requirements of risk assessment information required to be maintained by section 240.17h-1T.
(1) Every broker or dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15 of the Act, and every municipal securities dealer registered pursuant to section 15B of the Act for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency, unless exempt pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, shall file a Form 17-H within 60 calendar days after the end of each fiscal quarter. The Form 17-H for the fourth fiscal quarter shall be filed within 60 calendar days of the end of the fiscal year. The cumulative year-end financial statements required by section 240.17h-1T may be filed separately within 105 calendar days of the end of the fiscal year.
(2) The reports required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be filed with the Commission electronically on EDGAR in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in 17 CFR 232.11 (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T), and must be filed in accordance with the requirements of 17 CFR part 232 (Regulation S-T). The filings must be provided as Interactive Data Files in accordance with 17 CFR 232.405 (Rule 405 of Regulation S-T).
(3) For purposes of this section, the term Material Associated Person shall have the meaning used in § 240.17h-1T.
(b)
Exemptions.
(1) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any broker or dealer which is exempt from the provisions of section 240.15c3-3:
(i) Pursuant to paragraph (k)(1) of § 240.15c3-3; or
(ii) Pursuant to paragraph (k)(2) of § 240.15c3-3; or
(iii) If the broker or dealer does not qualify for an exemption from the provisions of § 240.15c3-3 and such broker or dealer does not hold funds or securities for, or owe money or securities to, customers and does not carry the accounts of or for customers; unless
(iv) In the case of paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) or (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the
broker or dealer maintains capital including debt subordinated in accordance with appendix D of § 240.15c3-1 equal to or greater than $20,000,000.
(2) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any broker or dealer which maintains capital including debt subordinated in accordance with appendix D of § 240.15c3-1 of less than $250,000, even if the broker or dealer hold funds or securities for, or owes money or securities to, customers or carries the accounts of or for customers.
(3) In calculating capital and subordinated debt for the purposes of this section, a broker or dealer shall include the equity capital and subordinated debt of any other registered brokers or dealers that are associated with the broker or dealer and are not otherwise exempt from the provisions pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(4) The provisions of this section shall not apply to a broker or dealer that computes certain of its capital charges in accordance with § 240.15c3-1e if that broker or dealer is affiliated with an ultimate holding company that is not an ultimate holding company that has a principal regulator, as defined in § 240.15c3-1(c)(13).
(5) The Commission may, upon written application by a Reporting Broker or Dealer, exempt from the provisions of this section, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, any brokers or dealers associated with the Reporting Broker or Dealer. The term “Reporting Broker or Dealer” shall mean, in the case of a broker or dealer that is associated with other registered brokers or dealers, the broker or dealer which maintains the greatest amount of net capital as reported on its most recently filed Form X-17A-5. In granting exemptions under this section, the Commission shall consider, among other factors, whether the records and other information required to be maintained pursuant to § 240.17h-1T concerning the Material Associated Persons of the broker or dealer associated with the Reporting Broker or Dealer will be available to the Commission pursuant to the provisions of this section.
(c)
Special provisions with respect to material associated persons subject to the supervision of certain domestic regulators.
A broker or dealer shall be deemed to be in compliance with the reporting requirements of paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a Material Associated Person if:
(1) Such Material Associated Person is subject to examination by or the reporting requirements of a Federal banking agency and the broker or dealer or such Material Associated Person furnishes in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section copies of reports filed on Form FR Y-9C, Form FR Y-6, Form FR Y-7, and Form FR 2068 by the Material Associated Person with the Federal banking agency pursuant to section 5211 of the Revised Statutes, section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act, section 7(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, section 10(b) of the Home Owners' Loan Act, or section 5 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956; or
(2) If the Material Associated Person is subject to the supervision of an insurance commissioner or other similar official agency of a state; and
(i) In the case of a Material Associated Person organized as a public stock company, the broker or dealer furnishes in accordance with the provisions of this section copies of the filings made by the insurance company pursuant to sections 13 or 15 of the Act and the Investment Company Act of 1940; or
(ii) In the case of Material Associated Person organized as a mutual insurance company or a non-public stock company, the broker or dealer furnishes in accordance with the provisions of this section copies of the Annual and Quarterly Statements prepared by the insurance company on forms prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The Annual Statement furnished to the Commission pursuant to this section shall include: The classification (distribution by state) section from the schedule of real estate; distribution by state, the interest overdue (more than three months), in process of foreclosure, and foreclosed properties transferred to real estate during the year sections from the schedule of mortgages; and the quality and maturity distribution of all bonds at statement values and by major types of issues section from the schedule of
bonds and stocks. All other Schedules and Exhibits to such Annual and Quarterly Statements shall be maintained at the broker-dealer pursuant to the provisions of § 240.17h-1T but not furnished to the Commission.
(iii) In the event an insurance company organized as a stock or mutual company is not required to prepare Quarterly Statements, the broker or dealer must file with the Commission a Form 17-H in accordance with the provisions of this section on a quarterly basis.
(3) In the case of a Material Associated Person that is subject to the supervision of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the broker or dealer furnishes in accordance with the provisions of this section copies of the reports filed by the Material Associated Person with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission on Forms 1 FR-FCM or 1 FR-IB.
(4) No broker or dealer shall be required to furnish to the Commission any examination report of any Federal banking agency or any supervisory recommendations or analyses contained therein with respect to a Material Associated Person that is subject to the regulation of a Federal banking agency. All information received by the Commission pursuant to this section concerning a Material Associated Person that is subject to examination by or the reporting requirements of a Federal banking agency shall be deemed confidential for the purposes of section 24(b) of the Act.
(5) The furnishing of any information or documents by a broker or dealer pursuant to this section shall not constitute an admission for any purpose that a Material Associated Person is otherwise subject to the Act. Any documents or information furnished to the Commission by a broker or dealer pursuant to this rule shall not be deemed to be “filed” for the purposes of the liabilities set forth in section 18 of the Act.
(d)
Special provisions with respect to material associated persons subject to the supervision of a foreign financial regulatory authority.
A broker or dealer shall be deemed to be in compliance with the reporting requirements of this section with respect to a Material Associated Person if such broker or dealer furnishes in accordance with the provisions of this section copies of the reports filed by such Material Associated Person with a Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority. The broker or dealer shall file a copy of the original report and a copy translated into the English language. For the purposes of this section, the term Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority shall have the meaning set forth in section 3(a)(51) of the Act.
(e)
Confidentiality.
All information obtained by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of this section from a broker or dealer concerning a Material Associated Person shall be deemed confidential information for the purposes of section 24(b) of the Act.
(f)
Temporary implementation schedule.
Every broker or dealer subject to the requirements of this section shall file the information required by Items 1, 2 and 3 of Form 17-H by October 31, 1992. Commencing December 31, 1992, the provisions of this section shall apply in their entirety.
[57 FR 32170, July 21, 1992, as amended at 69 FR 34472, June 21, 2004; 69 FR 34494, June 21, 2004; 78 FR 42865, July 18, 2013; 90 FR 7369, Jan. 21, 2025]
§ 240.17ab2-1
Registration of clearing agencies.
(a) An application for registration or for exemption from registration as a clearing agency, as defined in section 3(a)(23) of the Act, or an amendment to any such application shall be filed electronically with the Commission on Form CA-1, in accordance with the instructions thereto and paragraph (g) below.
(b) Any applicant for registration or for exemption from registration as a clearing agency whose application is filed with the Commission on or before November 24, 1975, on and in accordance with the instructions to Form CA-1, with respect to the clearing agency activities described in the application shall, during the period from December 1, 1975, until the Commission grants registration, denies registration or grants an exemption from registration, be exempt from the registration provisions of section 17A(b) of the Act
and the rules and regulations thereunder and, unless the Commission shall otherwise provide by rule or by order, the provisions of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder which would be applicable to clearing agencies as a result of registration under the Act.
(c)(1) The Commission, upon the request of a clearing agency, may grant registration of the clearing agency in accordance with sections 17A(b) and 19(a)(1) of the Act but exempt the registrant from one or more of the requirements as to which the Commission is directed to make a determination pursuant to paragraphs (A) through (I) of section 17A(b)(3) of the Act, provided that any such registration shall be effective only for eighteen months from the date the registration is made effective (or such longer period as the Commission may provide by order).
(2) In the case of any clearing agency registered in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, not later than nine months from the date such registration is made effective the Commission either will grant registration in accordance with sections 17A(b) and 19(a)(1) of the Act, without exempting the registrant from one or more of the requirements as to which the Commission is directed to make a determination pursuant to subparagraphs (A) through (I) of section 17A(b)(3) of the Act, or will institute proceedings in accordance with section 19(a)(1)(B) of the Act to determine whether registration should be denied at the expiration of the registration granted in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d) The electronic filing of an amendment to an application for registration or for exemption from registration as a clearing agency, which registration or exemption has not been granted, or the electronic filing of additional information or documents prior to the granting of registration or an exemption from registration shall extend to ninety days from the date such electronic filing is made (or to such longer period as to which the applicant consents) the period within which the Commission shall grant registration, institute proceedings to determine whether such registration shall be denied, or conditionally or unconditionally exempt registrant from the registration and other provisions of section 17A of the Act or the rules or regulations thereunder.
(e) If any information reported at Items 1-3 of Form CA-1 is or becomes inaccurate, misleading or incomplete for any reason, whether before or after registration or an exemption from registration has been granted, the registrant shall electronically file promptly an amendment on Form CA-1 correcting the inaccurate, misleading or incomplete information.
(f) Every application for registration or for exemption from registration as a clearing agency or amendment to, or additional information or document electronically filed in connection with, any such application shall constitute a “report” or “application” within the meaning of sections 17, 17A, 19, and 32(a) of the Act.
(g)(1) Filings on Form CA-1 made pursuant to this section shall be made electronically and shall contain an electronic signature.
(2) For the purposes of this section, the term
electronic signature
means an electronic entry in the form of a magnetic impulse or other form of computer data compilation of any letter or series of letters or characters composed of a name, executed, adopted or authorized as a signature.
(3) If the conditions of this section and Form CA-1 are otherwise satisfied, all filings submitted electronically on or before 5:30 p.m. eastern standard time or eastern daylight saving time, whichever is currently in effect, on a business day, shall be deemed filed on that business day, and all filings submitted after 5:30 p.m. eastern standard time or eastern daylight saving time, whichever is currently in effect, shall be deemed filed on the next business day. A filing would be deemed timely filed if it is required to be filed on a day that is not a business day and it is filed on the next available business day.
(4) For purposes of this section, the term
business day
means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, Federal holiday, a day that the Office of Personnel Management has announced that Federal agencies in the Washington, DC,
area, are closed to the public, a day on which the Commission is subject to a Federal Government shutdown, or a day on which the Commission's Washington, DC, office is otherwise not open for regular business.
[90 FR 7369, Jan. 21, 2025]
§ 240.17Ab2-2
Determinations affecting covered clearing agencies.
(a) The Commission may, if it deems appropriate, upon application by any clearing agency or member of a clearing agency, or on its own initiative, determine whether a covered clearing agency is systemically important in multiple jurisdictions. In determining whether a covered clearing agency is systemically important in multiple jurisdictions, the Commission may consider:
(1) Whether the covered clearing agency is a designated clearing agency; and
(2) Whether the clearing agency has been determined to be systemically important by one or more jurisdictions other than the United States through a process that includes consideration of whether the foreseeable effects of a failure or disruption of the designated clearing agency could threaten the stability of each relevant jurisdiction's financial system.
(b) The Commission may, if it deems appropriate, determine whether any of the activities of a clearing agency providing central counterparty services, in addition to clearing agencies registered with the Commission for the purpose of clearing security-based swaps, have a more complex risk profile. In determining whether a clearing agency's activity has a more complex risk profile, the Commission may consider whether the clearing agency clears financial instruments that are characterized by discrete jump-to-default price changes or that are highly correlated with potential participant defaults.
(c) The Commission may, if it deems appropriate, upon application by any clearing agency or member of a clearing agency, or on its own initiative, determine whether to rescind any determination made pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. In determining whether to rescind any such determination, the Commission may consider a change in circumstances such that the covered clearing agency no longer meets the criteria supporting the determination in effect.
(d) The Commission shall publish notice of its intention to consider making a determination under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, together with a brief statement of the grounds under consideration therefor, and provide at least a 30-day public comment period prior to any such determination, giving all interested persons an opportunity to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning such proposed determination. The Commission may provide the clearing agency subject to the proposed determination opportunity for hearing regarding the proposed determination.
(e) Notice of determinations under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section shall be given by prompt publication thereof, together with a statement of written reasons therefor.
(f) For purposes of this rule, the terms
covered clearing agency, designated clearing agency,
and
systemically important in multiple jurisdictions
shall have the meanings set forth in § 240.17Ad-22(a).
[81 FR 70901, Oct. 13, 2016]
§ 240.17Ac2-1
Application for registration of transfer agents.
(a) An application for registration, pursuant to section 17A(c) of the Act, of a transfer agent for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency, as defined in section 3(a)(34)(B) of the Act, shall be filed with the Commission on Form TA-1, in accordance with the instructions contained therein and shall become effective on the thirtieth day following the date on which the application is filed, unless the Commission takes affirmative action to accelerate, deny or postpone such registration in accord- ance with the provisions of section 17A(c) of the Act.
(b) The filing of any amendment to an application for registration as a transfer agent pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, which registration has not become effective, shall postpone the effective date of the registration until the thirtieth day following the date on which the amendment is
filed, unless the Commission takes affirmative action to accelerate, deny or postpone the registration in accord- ance with the provisions of section 17A(c) of the Act.
(c) If any of the information reported on Form TA-1 (§ 249b.100 of this chapter) becomes inaccurate, misleading, or incomplete, the registrant shall correct the information by filing an amendment within sixty days following the date on which the information becomes inaccurate, misleading, or incomplete.
(d) Every registration and amendment filed pursuant to this section shall be filed with the Commission electronically in the Commission's EDGAR system. Transfer agents should refer to Form TA-1 and the instructions to the form (§ 249b.100 of this chapter) and to the EDGAR Filer Manual (§ 232.301 of this chapter) for the technical requirements and instructions for electronic filing. Transfer agents that have previously filed a Form TA-1 with the Commission must refile the information on their Form TA-1, as amended, in electronic format in EDGAR as an amended Form TA-1.
(e) Every registration and amendment filed pursuant to this section shall constitute a “report” or “application” within the meaning of sections 17, 17A(c), and 32(a) of the Act.
[40 FR 51184, Nov. 4, 1975, as amended at 51 FR 12127, Apr. 9, 1986; 71 FR 74708, Dec. 12, 2006]
§ 240.17Ac2-2
Annual reporting requirement for registered transfer agents.
(a) Every transfer agent registered on December 31 must file a report covering the reporting period on Form TA-2 (§ 249b.102 of this chapter) by March 31 following the end of the reporting period. Form TA-2 must be completed in accordance with the instructions contained in the Form. A transfer agent may file an amendment to Form TA-2 pursuant to the instructions on the form to correct information that has become inaccurate, incomplete, or misleading. A transfer agent may file an amendment at any time; however, in order to be timely filed, all required portions of the form must be completed and filed in accordance with this section and the instructions to the form by the date the form is required to be filed with the Commission.
(1) A registered transfer agent that received fewer than 1,000 items for transfer in the reporting period and that did not maintain master securityholder files for more than 1,000 individual securityholder accounts as of December 31 of the reporting period must complete Questions 1 through 5, 11, and the signature section of Form TA-2.
(2) A named transfer agent that engaged a service company to perform all of its transfer agent functions during the reporting period must complete Questions 1 through 3 and the signature section of Form TA-2.
(3) A named transfer agent that engaged a service company to perform some but not all of its transfer agent functions during the reporting period must complete all of Form TA-2 but should enter zero (0) for those questions that relate to transfer agent functions performed by the service company on behalf of the named transfer agent.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term
reporting period
shall mean the calendar year ending December 31 for which Form TA-2 is being filed. The term
named transfer agent
shall have the same meaning as defined in § 240.17Ad-9(j). The term
service company
shall have the same meaning as defined in § 240.17Ad-9(k).
(c) Every annual report and amendment filed pursuant to this section shall be filed with the Commission electronically in the Commission's EDGAR system. Transfer agents should refer to Form TA-2 and the instructions to the form (§ 249b.102 of this chapter) and the EDGAR Filer Manual (§ 232.301 of this chapter) for further information regarding electronic filing. Every registered transfer agent must file an electronic Form TA-1 with the Commission, or an electronic amendment to its Form TA-1 if the transfer agent previously filed a paper Form TA-1 with the Commission, before it may file an electronic Form TA-2 or Form TA-W with the Commission.
[65 FR 36610, June 9, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 74708, Dec. 12, 2006]
§ 240.17Ac3-1
Withdrawal from registration with the Commission.
(a) Notice of withdrawal from registration as a transfer agent with the Commission pursuant to section 17A(c)(4) of the Act shall be filed on Form TA-W in accordance with the instructions contained thereon.
(b) Except as hereinafter provided, a notice to withdraw from registration filed by a transfer agent pursuant to section 17A(c)(4) of the Act shall become effective on the sixtieth day after the filing thereof with the Commission or within such shorter period of time as the Commission may determine. If a notice to withdraw from registration is filed with the Commission at any time subsequent to the date of issuance of a Commission order instituting proceedings pursuant to section 17A(c)(3) of the Act, or if prior to the effective date of the notice of withdrawal the Commission institutes such a proceeding or a proceeding to impose terms and conditions upon such withdrawal, the notice of withdrawal shall not become effective except at such time and upon such terms and conditions as the Commission deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or in furtherance of the purposes of section 17A.
(c) Every withdrawal from registration filed pursuant to this section shall be filed with the Commission electronically in the Commission's EDGAR system. Transfer agents should refer to Form TA-W and the instructions to the form (§ 249b.101 of this chapter) and the EDGAR Filer Manual (§ 232.301 of this chapter) for further information regarding electronic filing.
(d) Every notice of withdrawal filed pursuant to this rule shall constitute a “report” within the meaning of sections 17 and 32(a) of the Act.
[42 FR 44984, Sept. 8, 1977, as amended at 71 FR 74709, Dec. 12, 2006]
§ 240.17Ad-1
Definitions.
As used in this section and §§ 240.17Ad-2, 240.17Ad-3, 240.17Ad-4, 240.17Ad-5, 240.17Ad-6, and 240.17Ad-7:
(a)(1) The term
item
means:
(i) A certificate or certificates of the same issue of securities covered by one ticket (or, if there is no ticket, presented by one presentor) presented for transfer, or an instruction to a transfer agent which holds securities registered in the name of the presentor to transfer or to make available all or a portion of those securities;
(ii) Each line on a “deposit shipment control list” or a “withdrawal shipment control list” submitted by a registered clearing agency; or
(iii) In the case of an outside registrar, each certificate to be countersigned.
(2) If a “deposit shipment control list” or “withdrawal shipment control list” contains both routine and non-routine transfer instructions, a registered transfer agent shall at its option:
(i) Retain all transfer instructions listed on the shipment control list and treat each line on the shipment control list as a routine item; or
(ii) Return promptly to the registered clearing agency a shipment control list line containing non-routine transfer instructions (together with a copy of the shipment control list, an explanation for the return instructions and all routine transfer instructions reflected on the same line) and treat each line on the shipment control list that reflects retained transfer instructions as a routine item.
(3) A
deposit shipment control list
means a list of transfer instructions that accompanies certificates to be cancelled and reissued in the nominee name of a registered clearing agency.
(4) A
withdrawal shipment control list
means a list of instructions (either in paper or electronic medium) that:
(i) Directs issuance of certificates in the names of persons or entities other than the registered clearing agency; and
(ii) Accompanies certificates to be cancelled which are registered in the nominee name of a registered clearing agency, or directs the transfer agent to reduce certificate or position balances maintained by the transfer agent on behalf of a registered clearing agency under that clearing agency's transfer agent custody program
(b) The term
outside registrar
with respect to a transfer item means a transfer agent which performs only the registrar function for the certificate or certificates presented for transfer and includes the persons performing similar functions with respect to debt issues.
(c) An item is
made available
when
(1) In the case of an item for which the services of an outside registrar are not required, or which has been received from an outside registrar after processing, the transfer agent dispatches or mails the item to, or the item is awaiting pick-up by, the presentor or a person designated by the presentor, or
(2) In the case of an item for which the services of an outside registrar are required, the transfer agent dispatches or mails the item to, or the item is awaiting pick-up by, the outside registrar, or
(3) In the case of an item for which an outside registrar has completed processing, the outside registrar dispatches or mails the item to, or the item is awaiting pick-up by, the presenting transfer agent.
(d) The
transfer
of an item is accomplished when, in accordance with the presentor's instructions, all acts necessary to cancel the certificate or certificates presented for transfer and to issue a new certificate or certificates, including the performance of the registrar function, are completed and the item is made available to the presentor by the transfer agent, or when, in accordance with the presentor's instructions, a transfer agent which holds securities registered in the name of the presentor completes all acts necessary to issue a new certificate or certificates representing all or a portion of those securities and makes available the new certificate or certificates to the presentor or a person designated by the presentor or, with respect to those transfers of record ownership to be accomplished without the physical issuance of certificates, completes registration of change in ownership of all or a portion of those securities.
(e) The
turnaround
of an item is completed when transfer is accomplished or, when an outside registrar is involved, the transfer agent in accordance with the presentor's instructions completes all acts necessary to cancel the certificate or certificates presented for transfer and to issue a new certificate or certificates, and the item is made available to an outside registrar.
(f) The term
process
means the accomplishing by an outside registrar of all acts necessary to perform the registrar function and to make available to the presenting transfer agent the completed certificate or certificates or to advise the presenting transfer agent, orally or in writing, why performance of the registrar function is delayed or may not be completed.
(g) The
receipt
of an item or a written inquiry or request occurs when the item or written inquiry or request arrives at the premises at which the transfer agent performs transfer agent functions, as defined in section 3(a)(25) of the Act.
(h) A
business day
is any day during which the transfer agent is normally open for business and excludes Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, or other holidays normally observed by the transfer agent.
(i) An item is
routine
if it does not (1) require requisitioning certificates of an issue for which the transfer agent, under the terms of its agency, does not maintain a supply of certificates; (2) include a certificate as to which the transfer agent has received notice of a stop order, adverse claim, or any other restriction on transfer; (3) require any additional certificates, documentation, instructions, assignments, guarantees, endorsements, explanations, or opinions of counsel before transfer may be effected; (4) require review of supporting documentation other than assignments, endorsements or stock powers, certified corporate resolutions, signature, or other common and ordinary guarantees, or appropriate tax, or tax waivers; (5) involve a transfer in connection with a reorganization, tender offer, exchange, redemption, or liquidation; (6) include a warrant, right, or convertible security presented for transfer of record ownership within five business days before any day upon which exercise or conversion privileges lapse or change; (7) include a warrant, right, or convertible security presented
for exercise or conversion; or (8) include a security of an issue which within the previous 15 business days was offered to the public, pursuant to a registration statement effective under the Securities Act of 1933, in an offering not of a continuing nature.
(j) The term
depository-eligible securities issue
means an issue of securities that is eligible for deposit at any securities depository that is registered with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a clearing agency.
(Secs. 2, 17, 17A and 23(a) (15 U.S.C. 78b, 78q, 78q-1 and 78w(a)); secs. 3, 17A and 23(a), 15 U.S.C. 78c, 78q-1 and 78w(a))
[42 FR 32411, June 24, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 40575, Oct. 17, 1984; 51 FR 36551, Oct. 14, 1986]
§ 240.17Ad-2
Turnaround, processing, and forwarding of items.
(a) Every registered transfer agent (except when acting as an outside registrar) shall turnaround within three business days of receipt at least 90 percent of all routine items received for transfer during a month. For the purposes of this paragraph, items received at or before noon on a business day shall be deemed to have been received at noon on that day, and items received after noon on a business day or received on a day not a business day shall be deemed to have been received at noon on the next business day.
(b) Every registered transfer agent acting as an outside registrar shall process at least 90 percent of all items received during a month (1) by the opening of business on the next business day, in the case of items received at or before noon on a business day, and (2) by noon of the next business day, in the case of items received after noon on a business day. For the purposes of paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, “items received” shall not include any item enumerated in § 240.17Ad-1(i) (5), (6), (7), or (8) or any item which is not accompanied by a debit or cancelled certificate. For the purposes of this paragraph, items received on a day not a business day shall be deemed to have been received before noon on the next business day.
(c) Any registered transfer agent which fails to comply with paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any month shall, within ten business days following the end of such month, file with the Commission and the transfer agent's appropriate regulatory agency, if it is not the Commission, a written notice in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. Such notice shall state the number of routine items and the number of non-routine items received for transfer during the month, the number of routine items which the registered transfer agent failed to turnaround in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the percentage that such routine items represent of all routine items received during the month, the reasons for such failure, the steps which have been taken, are being taken or will be taken to prevent a future failure and the number of routine items, aged in increments of one business day, which as of the close of business on the last business day of the month have been in its possession for more than four business days and have not been turned around.
(d) Any registered transfer agent which fails to comply with paragraph (b) of this section with respect to any month shall, within ten business days following the end of such month, file with the Commission and the transfer agent's appropriate regulatory agency, if it is not the Commission, a written notice in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. Such notice shall state the number of items received for processing during the month, the number of items which the registered transfer agent failed to process in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the percentage that such items represent of all items received during the month, the reasons for such failure and the steps which have been taken, are being taken or will be taken to prevent a future failure and the number of items which as of the close of business on the last business day of the month have been in the transfer agent's possession for more than the time allowed for processing and have not been processed.
(e)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, all routine items not turned around within three business days of receipt as required by paragraph (a) of this section and all
items not processed within the periods required by paragraph (b) of this section shall be turned around promptly, and all nonroutine items shall receive diligent and continuous attention and shall be turned around as soon as possible.
(2) A transfer agent that is exempt under § 240.17Ad-4(b) and that has received 30 days notice of depository-eligibility of an issue for which it performs transfer agent functions shall turnaround ninety percent of all routine items received during a month within five business days of receipt. Such transfer agent shall devote diligent and continuous attention to the remaining ten percent of routine items and shall turnaround these items as soon as possible.
(f) A registered transfer agent which receives items at locations other than the premises at which it performs transfer agent functions shall have appropriate procedures to assure, and shall assure, that items are forwarded to such premises promptly.
(g) A registered transfer agent which receives processed items from an outside registrar shall have appropriate procedures to assure, and shall assure, that such items are made available promptly to the presentor.
(h) Any notice required by this section or § 240.17Ad-4 shall be filed as follows:
(1) Any notice required to be filed with the Commission shall be filed in triplicate with the principal office of the Commission in Washington, DC 20549 and, in the case of a registered transfer agent for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency, an additional copy shall be filed with the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the registered transfer agent has its principal office for transfer agent activities.
(2) Any notice required to be filed with the Comptroller of the Currency shall be filed with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Administrator of National Banks, Washington, DC 20219.
(3) Any notice required to be filed with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall be filed with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20251 and with the Federal Reserve Bank of the district in which the registered transfer agent's principal banking operations are conducted.
(4) Any notice required to be filed with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be filed with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Washington, DC 20429.
[42 FR 32412, June 24, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 40575, Oct. 17, 1984; 59 FR 5946, Feb. 9, 1994; 73 FR 32228, June 5, 2008]
§ 240.17Ad-3
Limitations on expansion.
(a) Any registered transfer agent which is required to file any notice pursuant to § 240.17Ad-2 (c) or (d) for each of three consecutive months shall not from the fifth business day after the end of the third such month until the end of the next following period of three successive months during which no such notices have been required:
(1) Initiate the performance of any transfer agent function or activity for an issue for which the transfer agent does not perform, or is not under agreement to perform, transfer agent functions prior to such fifth business day; and
(2) With respect to an issue for which transfer agent functions are being performed on such fifth business day, initiate for that issue the performance of an additional transfer agent function or activity which the transfer agent does not perform, or is not under agreement to perform, prior to such fifth business day.
(b) Any registered transfer agent which for each of two consecutive months fails to turn around at least 75% of all routine items in accordance with the requirements of § 240.17Ad-2(a) or to process at least 75% of all items in accordance with the requirements of § 240.17Ad-2(b) shall be subject to the limitations imposed by paragraph (a) of this section and further shall, within twenty business days after the close of the second such month, send to the chief executive officer of each issuer for which such registered transfer agent acts a copy of the written notice
filed pursuant to § 240.17Ad-2 (c) or (d) with respect to the second such month.
(Secs. 2, 17, 17A and 23(a) (15 U.S.C. 78b, 78q, 78q-1 and 78w(a)))
[42 FR 32412, June 24, 1977]
§ 240.17Ad-4
Applicability of §§ 240.17Ad-2, 240.17Ad-3 and 240.17Ad-6(a) (1) through (7) and (11).
(a) Sections 240.17Ad-2, 240.17Ad-3 and 240.17Ad-6(a) (1) through (7) and (11) shall not apply to interests in limited partnerships, to redeemable securities of investment companies registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, or to interests in dividend reinvestment programs.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section,
exempt transfer agent
means a transfer agent that during any six consecutive months shall have received fewer than 500 items for transfer and fewer than 500 items for processing.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an exempt transfer agent that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) shall be exempt from the provisions of §§ 240.17Ad-2 (a), (b), (c), (d) and (h), 240.17Ad-3 and 240.17Ad-6(a) (2) through (7) and (11).
(3) Within ten business days following the close of the sixth consecutive month described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, an exempt transfer agent shall:
(i) If its appropriate regulatory agency is either the Commission or the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, prepare and maintain in its possession a document certifying that the transfer agent qualifies as exempt under paragraph (b)(1) of this section; or
(ii) If its appropriate regulatory agency is either the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, file with the appropriate regulatory agency a notice certifying that it qualifies as exempt under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c) Within five business days following the close of each month, every exempt transfer agent shall calculate the number of items which it received during the preceding six months. Whenever any exempt transfer agent no longer qualifies as such under paragraph (b)(1), within ten business days after the end of such month: (1) It shall prepare and maintain in its possession a document so stating, if subject to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section; or (2) it shall file with its appropriate regulatory agency a notice to that effect, if subject to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section. Thereafter, beginning with the first month following the month in which such document is required to be prepared or such notice is required to be filed, the registered transfer agent no longer shall be exempt under paragraph (b) of this section. Any registered transfer agent which has ceased to be an exempt transfer agent under this paragraph shall not qualify again for exemption until it has conducted its transfer agent operations pursuant to the foregoing sections for six consecutive months following the month in which it was required to prepare the document or prepare and file the notice specified in this paragraph.
(Secs. 2, 17, 17A and 23(a) (15 U.S.C. 78b, 78q, 78q-1 and 78w(a)))
[42 FR 32413, June 24, 1977, as amended at 48 FR 28246, June 21, 1983]
§ 240.17Ad-5
Written inquiries and requests.
(a) When any person makes a written inquiry to a registered transfer agent concerning the status of an item presented for transfer during the preceding six months by such person or anyone acting on his behalf, which inquiry identifies the issue, the number of shares (or principal amount of debt securities or number of units if relating to any other kind of security) presented, the approximate date of presentment and the name in which it is registered, the registered transfer agent shall, within five business days following receipt of the inquiry, respond, stating whether the item has been received; if received, whether it has been transferred; if received and not transferred, the reason for the delay and what additional matter, if any, is necessary before transfer may be effected; and, if received and transferred, the date and manner in which the completed item was made available, the addressee and address to which it was made available and the
number of any new certificate which was registered and the name in which it was registered. If a new certificate is dispatched or mailed to the presentor within five business days following receipt of an inquiry pertaining to that certificate, no further response to the inquiry shall be required pursuant to this paragraph.
(b) When any broker-dealer requests in writing that a registered transfer agent acknowledge the transfer instructions and the possession of a security presented for transfer by such broker-dealer or revalidate a window ticket with respect to such security and the request identifies the issue, the number of shares (or principal amount of debt securities or number of units if relating to any other kind of security), the approximate date of presentment, the certificate number and the name in which it is registered, every registered transfer agent shall, within five business days following receipt of the request, in writing, confirm or deny possession of the security, and, if the registered transfer agent has possession, (1) acknowledge the transfer instructions or (2) revalidate the window ticket. If a new certificate is dispatched or mailed to the presentor within five business days following receipt of a request pertaining to that certificate, no further response to the inquiry shall be required pursuant to this paragraph.
(c) When any person, or anyone acting under his authority, requests in writing that a transfer agent confirm possession as of a given date of a certificate presented by such person during the 30 days before the date the inquiry is received and the request identifies the issue, the number of shares (or principal amount of debt securities or number of units if relating to any other kind of security), the approximate date of presentment, the certificate number and the name in which the certificate was registered, every registered transfer agent shall, within ten business days following receipt of the request and upon assurance of payment of a reasonable fee if required by such transfer agent, make available a written response to such person, or anyone acting under his authority, confirming or denying possession of such security as of such given date.
(d) When any person requests in writing a transcript of such person's account with respect to a particular issue, either as the account appears currently or as it appeared on a specific date not more than six months prior to the date the registered transfer agent receives the request, every registered transfer agent shall, within twenty business days following receipt of the request and upon assurance of payment of a reasonable fee if required by such transfer agent, make available to such person a transcript, ledger or statement of account in sufficient detail to permit reconstruction of such account as of the date for which the transcript was requested.
(e)(1)
Response to written inquiries concerning dividend and interest payments.
A registered transfer agent shall respond, within ten business days of receipt, to current claims that contain sufficient detail. A registered transfer agent shall respond, within twenty business days of receipt, to aged claims that contain sufficient detail. The response shall indicate in writing that the inquiry has been received, whether the claim requires further research and, if so, a reasonable estimate of how long that research may take. If no further research is required, the response shall indicate whether that claim is being or will be paid and, if not, the reason for not paying the claim. A registered transfer agent shall devote diligent attention to unresolved inquiries and shall resolve all inquiries as soon as possible.
(2)
Misdirected written inquiries concerning dividend and interest payments.
In the event that a transfer agent is not the dividend disbursing or interest paying agent for an issue that is the subject of a claim under this section, but performed those or any transfer agent services for that issue within the preceding three years, the transfer agent shall provide in writing to the inquirer, within ten business days of receipt of the inquiry, the name and address of the current dividend disbursing or interest paying agent. If the transfer agent did not perform those or other transfer agent services for the issue within the preceding three years, the transfer agent must respond to the inquiry and may respond by returning
the inquiry with a statement that the transfer agent is not the current dividend disbursing or interest paying agent and that it does not know the name and address of the current dividend disbursing or interest paying agent.
(3) As used in this paragraph:
(i) A
current claim
means a written inquiry concerning non-payment or incorrect payment of dividends or interest, the payment date for which occurred within the preceding six months.
(ii) An
aged claim
means a written inquiry concerning non-payment or incorrect payment of dividends or interest, the payment date for which occurred more than six months before the inquiry.
(iii)
Sufficient detail
means a written inquiry or request that identifies: The issue; the name(s) in which the securities are registered; the number of shares (or principal amount of debt securities or number of units for any other kind of security) involved; the approximate record date(s) or payment date(s) relating to the claim; and, with respect to registered broker-dealers, registered clearing agencies, or banks, certificate numbers.
(f)
Telephone response.
(1) A transfer agent may satisfy the written response requirements of this section by a telephone response to the inquirer if:
(i) The telephone response resolves that inquiry; and
(ii) The inquirer does not request a written response.
(2) When any person makes a written inquiry or request that would qualify under paragraph (e) of this section except that it fails to provide sufficient detail as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section, a registered transfer agent may telephone the inquirer to obtain the necessary additional detail within the time periods specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. If the transfer agent does not receive the additional detail within ten business days, the transfer agent immediately shall make a written request for the additional information.
(g)(1) When any person makes a written inquiry or request which would qualify under paragraph (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section except that it fails to provide all of the information specified in those paragraphs, or requests information which refers to a time earlier than the time periods specified in those paragraphs, a registered transfer agent shall confirm promptly receipt of the inquiry or request and respond to it as soon as possible.
(2) When any person makes a written inquiry or request which would qualify under paragraph (e) of this section except that it fails to provide sufficient detail as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section, a registered transfer agent must respond to the inquiry within the time periods specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. A registered transfer agent may respond to such an inquiry in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section as though sufficient detail had been provided, or may return it to the inquirer, requesting the additional necessary details.
(Secs. 2, 17, 17A and 23(a) (15 U.S.C. 78b, 78q, 78q-1 and 78w(a)))
[42 FR 32413, June 24, 1977, as amended at 51 FR 5707, Feb. 18, 1986]
§ 240.17Ad-6
Recordkeeping.
(a) Every registered transfer agent shall make and keep current the following:
(1) A receipt, ticket, schedule, log or other record showing the business day each routine item and each non-routine item is (i) received from the presentor and, if applicable, from the outside registrar and (ii) made available to the presentor and, if applicable, to the outside registrar;
(2) A log, tally, journal, schedule or other record showing for each month:
(i) The number of routine items received;
(ii) The number of routine items received during the month that were turned around within three business days of receipt;
(iii) The number of routine items received during the month that were not turned around within three business days of receipt;
(iv) The number of non-routine items received during the month;
(v) The number of non-routine items received during the month that were turned around;
(vi) The number of routine items that, as of the close of business on the last business day of each month, have been in such registered transfer agent's possession for more than four business days, aged in increments of one business day (beginning on the fifth business day); and
(vii) The number of non-routine items in such registered transfer agent's possession as of the close of business on the last business day of each month;
(3) With respect to items for which the registered transfer agent acts as an outside registrar:
(i) A receipt, ticket, schedule, log or other record showing the date and time:
(A) Each item is (
1
) received from the presenting transfer agent and (
2
) made available to the presenting transfer agent;
(B) Each written or oral notice of refusal to perform the registrar function is made available to the presenting transfer agent (and the substance of the notice); and
(ii) A log, tally, journal, schedule or other record showing for each month:
(A) The number of items received;
(B) The number of items processed within the time required by § 240.17Ad-2(b); and
(C) The number of items not processed within the time required by § 240.17Ad-2(b);
(4) A record of calculations demonstrating the registered transfer agent's monitoring of its performance under § 240.17Ad-2 (a) and (b);
(5) A copy of any written notice filed pursuant to § 240.17Ad-2;
(6) Any written inquiry or request, including those not subject to the requirements of § 240.17Ad-5, concerning an item, showing the date received; a copy of any written response to an inquiry or request, showing the date dispatched or mailed to the presentor; if no response to an inquiry or request was made, the date the certificate involved was made available to the presentor; or, in the case of an inquiry or request under § 240.17Ad-5(a) responded to by telephone, a telephone log or memorandum showing the date and substance of any telephone response to the inquiry;
(7) A log, journal, schedule or other record showing the number of inquiries subject to § 240.17Ad-5 (a), (b), (c) and (d) received during each month but not responded to within the required time frames and the number of such inquiries pending as of the close of business on the last business day of each month;
(8) Any document, resolution, contract, appointment or other writing, any supporting document, concerning the appointment and the termination of such appointment of such registered transfer agent to act in any capacity for any issue on behalf of the issuer, on behalf of itself as the issuer or on behalf of any person who was engaged by the issuer to act on behalf of the issuer;
(9) Any record of an active (i.e., unreleased) stop order, notice of adverse claim or any other restriction on transfer;
(10) A copy of any transfer journal and registrar journal prepared by such registered transfer agent; and
(11) Any document upon which the transfer agent bases its determination that an item received for transfer was received in connection with a reorganization, tender offer, exchange, redemption, liquidation, conversion or the sale of securities registered pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 and, accordingly, was not routine under § 240.17Ad-1(i) (5) or (8).
(b) Every registered transfer agent which, under the terms of its agency, maintains securityholder records for an issue or which acts as a registrar for an issue shall, with respect to such issue, obtain from the issuer or its transfer agent and retain documentation setting forth the total number of shares or principal amount of debt securities or total number of units if relating to any other kind of security authorized and the total issued and outstanding pursuant to issuer authorization.
(c) Every registered transfer agent which, under the terms of its agency, maintains securityholder records for an issue shall, with respect to such issue, retain each cancelled registered bond, debenture, share, warrant or
right, other registered evidence of indebtedness, or other certificate of ownership and all accompanying documentation, except legal papers returned to the presentor.
(Secs. 2, 17, 17A and 23(a) (15 U.S.C. 78b, 78q, 78q-1 and 78w(a)))
[42 FR 32413, June 24, 1977]
§ 240.17ad-7
(Rule 17Ad-7) Record retention.
(a) The records required by § 240.17Ad-6(a)(1), (3)(i), (6) or (11) shall be maintained for a period of not less than two years, the first six months in an easily accessible place.
(b) The records required by § 240.17Ad-6(a) (2), (3)(ii), (4), (5) or (7) shall be maintained for a period of not less than two years, the first year in an easily accessible place.
(c) The records required by § 240.17Ad-6(a) (8), (9) and (10) and (b) shall be maintained in an easily accessible place during the continuance of the transfer agency and shall be maintained for one year after termination of the transfer agency.
(d) The records required by § 240.17Ad-6(c) shall be maintained for a period of not less than six years, the first six months in an easily accessible place.
(e) Every registered transfer agent shall maintain in an easily accessible place:
(1) All records required under § 240.17f-2(d) until at least three years after the termination of employment of those persons required by § 240.17f-2 to be fingerprinted; and
(2) All records required pursuant to § 240.17f-2(e).
(f) Subject to the conditions set forth in this section, the records required to be maintained pursuant to § 240.17Ad-6 may be retained using electronic or micrographic media and may be preserved in those formats for the time required by § 240.17Ad-7. Records stored electronically or micrographically in accordance with this paragraph may serve as a substitute for the hard copy records required to be maintained pursuant to § 240.17Ad-6.
(1) For purposes of this section:
(i) The term
micrographic media
means microfilm or microfiche or any similar medium.
(ii) The term
electronic storage media
means any digital storage medium or system.
(iii) The term
ARA
means your appropriate regulatory agency as that term is defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(34).
(2) If you as a registered transfer agent use electronic storage media or micrographic media to store your records, you must:
(i) Have available at all times for examination by the staffs of the Commission and of your ARA facilities to project or produce immediately easily readable images of such records;
(ii) Be ready at all times to provide such records that the staffs of the Commission and your ARA or their representatives may request;
(iii) Create an accurate index of such records, store the index with those records, and have the index available at all times for examination by the staffs of the Commission and your ARA;
(iv) Have quality assurance procedures to verify the quality and accuracy of the electronic or micrographic recording process; and
(v) Maintain separately from the originals duplicates of the records and the index that you store on electronic storage media or micrographic media. You may store the duplicates of the indexed records on any medium permitted by this section. You must preserve the duplicate records and index for the same time that is required by this section for the indexed records, and you must have them available at all times for examination by the staffs of the Commission and your ARA.
(3) Any electronic storage media that you use to store your records must:
(i) Ensure the security and integrity of the records by means of manual and automated controls that assure the authenticity and quality of the electronic facsimile, detect attempts to alter or remove the records, and provide means to recover altered, damaged, or lost records resulting from any cause;
(ii) Externally label all removable units of storage media using a unique identifier that allows the manual association of that removable storage unit with its place and order in the recordkeeping system; and
(iii) Uniquely identify files and internally label each file with its unique name, the date and time of file creation, the date and time of last modification or extension, and a file sequence number when the file spans more than one volume.
(4) If you use electronic storage media or micrographic media to store your records, you must establish an audit system that accounts for the inputting of and any changes to every record that is stored on electronic storage media or micrographic media. The results of such audit system must:
(i) Be available at all times for examination by the staffs of the Commission and your ARA; and
(ii) Be preserved for the same time that is required by this section for the underlying records.
(5) If you use electronic storage media or micrographic media to store your records, you must:
(i) Maintain, keep current, and provide promptly upon request by the staffs of the Commission and your ARA all information necessary to access the records and indexes stored on electronic storage media or micrographic media; and
(ii) Place, or have a third party place on your behalf, in escrow with an independent third party and keep current a copy of the physical and logical format of the electronic storage or micrographic media, the field format of all different information types written on the electronic storage media and source code, and the appropriate documentation and information necessary to access records and indexes. The independent escrow agent must file an undertaking signed by a duly authorized person with the Commission and your ARA stating that:
“[Name of Third Party] hereby undertakes to furnish promptly upon request to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, its designees, or representatives, upon reasonable request, a current copy of the physical and logical format of the electronic storage or micrographic media, the field format of all different information types written on the electronic storage media and source code, and the appropriate documentation and information necessary to access the records and indexes of [Name of Transfer Agent]'s electronic records management system.
(6) (i) If you use a third party to maintain or preserve some or all of the required records using electronic storage media or micrographic media, such third party shall file a written undertaking signed by a duly authorized person with the Commission and your ARA stating that:
“With respect to any books and records maintained or preserved on behalf of [Name of Transfer Agent], [Name of Third Party] hereby undertakes to permit examination of such books and records at any time or from time to time during business hours by representatives or designees of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and to promptly furnish to said Commission or its designee true, correct, complete, and current hard copies of any or all or any part of such books and records.”
(ii) Agreement with a third party to maintain your records shall not relieve you from the responsibility to prepare and maintain records as specified in this section or in § 240.17Ad-6.
(g) If the records required to be maintained and preserved by a registered transfer agent pursuant to the requirements of §§ 240.17Ad-6 and 240.17Ad-7 are maintained and preserved on behalf of the registered transfer agent by an outside service bureau, other recordkeeping service or the issuer, the registered transfer agent shall obtain, from such outside service bureau, other recordkeeping service or the issuer, an agreement, in writing, to the effect that:
(1) Such records are subject at any time, or from time to time, to reasonable periodic, special, or other examinations by representatives of the Commission and the appropriate regulatory agency for such registered transfer agent if it is not the Commission; and
(2) The outside service bureau, recordkeeping service, or issuer will furnish to the Commission and the appropriate regulatory agency, upon demand, at either the principal office or at any regional office, complete, correct and current hard copies of any and all such records.
(h) When a registered transfer agent ceases to perform transfer agent functions for an issue, the responsibility of such transfer agent under § 240.17Ad-7 to retain the records required to be made and kept current under § 240.17Ad-6(a) (1), (6), (9), (10) and (11),
(b) and (c) shall end upon the delivery of such records to the successor transfer agent.
(i) The records required by §§ 240.17Ad-17(d) and 240.17Ad-19(c) shall be maintained for a period of not less than three years, the first year in an easily accessible place.
(j) [Reserved]
(k) Every registered transfer agent shall maintain in an easily accessible place:
(1) The written policies and procedures required to be adopted and implemented pursuant to § 248.30(a)(1) of this chapter for no less than three years after the termination of the use of the policies and procedures;
(2) The written documentation of any detected unauthorized access to or use of customer information, as well as any response to, and recovery from such unauthorized access to or use of customer information required by § 248.30(a)(3) of this chapter for no less than three years from the date when the records were made;
(3) The written documentation of any investigation and determination made regarding whether notification is required pursuant to § 248.30(a)(4) of this chapter, including the basis for any determination made, any written documentation from the United States Attorney General related to a delay in notice, as well as a copy of any notice transmitted following such determination, for no less than three years from the date when the records were made;
(4) The written policies and procedures required to be adopted and implemented pursuant to § 248.30(a)(5)(i) of this chapter until three years after the termination of the use of the policies and procedures;
(5) The written documentation of any contract or agreement entered into pursuant to § 248.30(a)(5) of this chapter until three years after the termination of such contract or agreement; and
(6) The written policies and procedures required to be adopted and implemented pursuant to § 248.30(b)(2) of this chapter for no less than three years after the termination of the use of the policies and procedures.
[42 FR 32414, June 24, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 54063, Dec. 1, 1982; 62 FR 52237, Oct. 7, 1997; 66 FR 21659, May 1, 2001; 68 FR 74401, Dec. 23, 2003; 68 FR 75054, Dec. 29, 2003; 78 FR 4874, Jan. 23, 2013. Redesignated and amended at 89 FR 47785, June 3, 2024]
§ 240.17Ad-8
Securities position listings.
(a) For purposes of this section, the term
securities position listing
means, with respect to the securities of any issuer held by a registered clearing agency in the name of the clearing agency or its nominee, a list of those participants in the clearing agency on whose behalf the clearing agency holds the issuer's securities and of the participants' respective positions in such securities as of a specified date.
(b) Upon request, a registered clearing agency shall furnish a securities position listing promptly to each issuer whose securities are held in the name of the clearing agency or its nominee. A registered clearing agency may charge issuers requesting securities position listings a fee designed to recover the reasonable costs of providing the securities position listing to the issuer.
(Secs. 2, 17A, and 23(a) (15 U.S.C. 78b, 78q-1, and 78w(a)))
[44 FR 76777, Dec. 28, 1979]
§ 240.17Ad-9
Definitions.
As used in this section and §§ 240.17Ad-10, 240.17Ad-11, 240.17Ad-12 and 240.17Ad-13:
(a)
Certificate detail,
with respect to certificated securities, includes, at a minimum, all of the following, and with respect to uncertificated securities, includes items (2) through (8):
(1) The certificate number.
(2) The number of shares for equity securities or the principal dollar amount for debt securities;
(3) The securityholder's registration;
(4) The address of the registered securityholder;
(5) The issue date of the security;
(6) The cancellation date of the security;
(7) In the case of redeemable securities of investment companies, an appropriate description of each debit and
credit (i.e., designation indicating purchase, redemption, or transfer); and
(8) Any other identifying information about securities and securityholders the transfer agent reasonably deems essential to its recordkeeping system for the efficient and effective research of record differences.
(b)
Master securityholder file
is the official list of individual securityholder accounts. With respect to uncertificated securities of companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, the master securityholder file may consist of multiple, but linked, automated files.
(c) A
subsidiary file
is any list or record of accounts, securityholders, or certificates that evidences debits or credits that have not been posted to the master securityholder file.
(d) A
control book
is the record or other document that shows the total number of shares (in the case of equity securities) or the principal dollar amount (in the case of debt securities) authorized and issued by the issuer.
(e) A
credit
is an addition of appropriate certificate detail to the master securityholder file.
(f) A
debit
is a cancellation of appropriate certificate detail from the master securityholder file.
(g) A
record difference
occurs when either:
(1) The total number of shares or total principal dollar amount of securities in the master securityholder file does not equal the number of shares or principal dollar amount in the control book; or
(2) The security transferred or redeemed contains certificate detail different from the certificate detail currently on the master securityholder file, which difference cannot be immediately resolved.
(h) A
recordkeeping transfer agent
is the registered transfer agent that maintains and updates the master securityholder file.
(i) A
co-transfer agent
is the registered transfer agent that transfers securities but does not maintain and update the master securityholder file.
(j) A
named transfer agent
is the registered transfer agent that is engaged by an issuer to perform transfer agent functions for an issue of securities but has engaged a service company to perform some or all of those functions.
(k) A
service company
is the registered transfer agent engaged by a named transfer agent to perform transfer agent functions for that named transfer agent.
(l) A
file
includes automated and manual records.
(Secs. 2, 17(a), 17A(d) and 23(a) thereof, 15 U.S.C. 78b, 78q(a), 78q-1(d) and 78w(a))
[48 FR 28246, June 21, 1983]
§ 240.17Ad-10
Prompt posting of certificate detail to master securityholder files, maintenance of accurate securityholder files, communications between co-transfer agents and recordkeeping transfer agents, maintenance of current control book, retention of certificate detail and “buy-in” of physical over-issuance.
(a)(1) Every recordkeeping transfer agent shall promptly and accurately post to the master securityholder file debits and credits containing minimum and appropriate certificate detail representing every security transferred, purchased, redeemed or issued;
Provided, however,
That if a security transferred or redeemed contains certificate detail different from that currently posted to the master securityholder file, the credit shall be posted to the master securityholder file and the debit and related certificate detail shall be maintained in a subsidiary file until resolved. The recordkeeping transfer agent shall exercise diligent and continuous attention to resolve the resulting record difference and, once resolved, shall post to the master securityholder file the debit maintained in the subsidiary file. Postings of certificate detail shall remain on the master securityholder file until a debit to a securityholder acount is appropriate.
(2) As used in this paragraph, the term
promptly
means the following number of days after issuance, purchase, transfer, or redemption of a security:
(i) With respect to recordkeeping transfer agents (other than transfer agents that perform transfer agent functions with respect to redeemable
securities issued by investment companies registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940) that are exempt transfer agents under § 240.17Ad-4(b), 30 calendar days;
(ii) With respect to recordkeeping transfer agents (other than transfer agents that perform transfer agent functions with respect to redeemable securities issued by investment companies registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940) that:
(A) Perform transfer agent functions solely for their own or their affiliated companies' securities issues, and
(B) Employ batch posting systems, ten business days; and
(iii) With respect to all other recordkeeping transfer agents, five business days;
Provided, however,
That all securities transferred, purchased, redeemed or issued prior to record date, but posted subsequent thereto, shall be posted as of the record date.
(3) With respect to posting certificate detail from transfer journals received by the recordkeeping transfer agent from a co-transfer agent, the time frames set forth in paragraph (a)(2) shall commence upon receipt of those journals by the recordkeeping transfer agent.
(b) Every recordkeeping transfer agent shall maintain and keep current an accurate master securityholder file and subsidiary files. If such transfer agent has any record difference, its master securityholder file and subsidiary files must accurately represent all relevant debits and credits until the record difference is resolve. The recordkeeping transfer agent shall exercise diligent and continuous attention to resolve all record differences.
(c)(1) Every co-transfer agent shall dispatch or mail promptly to the recordkeeping transfer agent a record of debits and credits for every security transferred or issued. For the purposes of this paragraph, “promptly” means within two business days following transfer of each security, and, with respect to transfers occurring within five business days of record date, daily.
(2) Within three business days following the end of each month, every co-transfer agent shall mail to the recordkeeping transfer agent for each issue of securities for which it acts as a co-transfer agent, a report setting forth:
(i) The principal dollar amount of debt securities or the number of shares and related market value of equity securities comprising any buy-in executed by the co-transfer agent during the preceding month pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section; and
(ii) The reason for the buy-in.
(d) Every co-transfer agent shall respond promptly to all inquiries from the recordkeeping transfer agent regarding records required to be dispatched or mailed by the co-transfer agent pursuant to § 240.17Ad-10(c). For the purposes of this paragraph, “promptly” means within five business days of receipt of an inquiry from a recordkeeping transfer agent.
(e) Every recordkeeping transfer agent shall maintain and keep current an accurate control book for each issue of securities. A change in the control book shall not be made except upon written authorization from a duly authorized agent of the issuer.
(f) Every recordkeeping transfer agent shall retain a record of all certificate detail deleted from the master securityholder file for a period of six years from the date of deletion. In lieu of maintaining a hard copy, a recordkeeping transfer agent may comply with this paragraph by complying with § 240.17Ad-7(f) or § 240.17Ad-7(g).
(g)(1) A registered transfer agent, in the event of any actual physical overissuance that such transfer agent caused and of which it has knowledge, shall, within 60 days of the discovery of such overissuance, buy in securities equal to the number of shares in the case of equity securities or the principal dollar amount in the case of debt securities. During the sixty-day period, the registered transfer agent shall devote diligent attention to resolving the overissuance and recovering the certificates. This paragraph requires a buy-in only by the transfer agent that erroneously issued the certificate(s) giving rise to the physical overissuance, and applies only to those physical overissuances created by transfers or issuances subsequent to September 30, 1983.
(2) If a transfer agent obtains a letter from the party holding the overissued
certificates that confirms that the overissued certificate(s) will be returned to the transfer agent not later than thirty days after the expiration of the sixty-day period, the transfer agent need not buy in securities by the sixtieth day. If, however, the certificate(s) are not returned to the transfer agent within the additional thirty-day period, the transfer agent immediately must execute the buy-in in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(3) If the certificates involved are covered by a surety bond indemnifying the transfer agent for all expenses incurred as a result of actual overissuance, the transfer agent need not buy in the securities. The transfer agent, however, shall devote diligent attention to resolving the overissuance and recovering the certificates.
(4) For purposes of this paragraph,
discovery of the overissuance
occurs when the transfer agent identifies the erroneously issued certificate(s) and the registered securityholder(s).
(h) Subsequent to the effective date of this section, registered transfer agents that:
(1) Assume the maintenance and updating of master securityholder files from predecessor transfer agents,
(2) Establish a new master securityholder file for a particular issue, or
(3) Convert from manual to automated systems,
must carry over any existing certificate detail required by this section on the master securityholder file.
A recordkeeping transfer agent shall not be required to add certificate detail to the master securityholder file respecting certificates issued prior to the effective date of this section.
(Secs. 2, 17(a), 17A(d) and 23(a) thereof, 15 U.S.C. 78b, 78q(a), 78q-1(d) and 78w(a))
[48 FR 28246, June 21, 1983, as amended at 51 FR 5708, Feb. 18, 1986]
§ 240.17Ad-11
Reports regarding aged record differences, buy-ins and failure to post certificate detail to master securityholder and subsidiary files.
(a)
Definitions.
(1)
Issuer capitalization
means the market value of the issuer's authorized and outstanding equity securities or, with respect to a municipal securities issuer, the market value of all debt issues for which the transfer agent performs recordkeeping functions on behalf of that issuer, determined by reference to the control book and current market prices.
(2) An
aged record difference
is a record difference that has existed for more than thirty calendar days.
(b)
Reports to Issuers.
(1) Within ten business days following the end of each month, every recordkeeping transfer agent shall report the information specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section to the persons specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, when the aggregate market value of aged record differences in all equity securities issues or debt securities issues maintained on behalf of a particular issuer exceeds the thresholds set forth in the table below.
Issuer capitalization
Aggregate market value of aged record differences exceeds
For equity securities
For debt securities
(1) $5 million or less
$50,000
$100,000
(2) Greater than $5 million but less than $50 million
250,000
500,000
(3) Greater than $50 million but less than $150 million
500,000
1,000,000
(4) Greater than $150 million
1,000,000
2,000,000
(2) Within ten business days following the end of each month (or within ten days thereafter in the case of a named transfer agent that receives a report from a service company pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i)(C)), every recordkeeping transfer agent shall report the information specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section to the persons specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, with respect to each issue of securities for which it acts as recordkeeping transfer agent, concerning any securities bought-in pursuant to § 240.17Ad-10(g) or reported as bought-in pursuant to § 240.17Ad-10(c) during the preceding month.
(3) The report shall be sent:
(i) By every recordkeeping transfer agent (other than a recordkeeping transfer agent that performs transfer agent functions solely for its own securities):
(A) To the official performing corporate secretary functions for the issuer of the securities for which the
aged record difference exists or for which the buy-in occurred;
(B) With respect to an issue of municipal securities, to the chief financial officer of the issuer of the securities for which the aged record difference exists or for which the buy-in occurred; or
(C) If it acts as a service company, to the named transfer agent; and
(ii) By every named transfer agent that is engaged by an issuer to maintain and update the master securityholder file:
(A) To the official performing corporate secretary functions for the issuer of the securities for which the aged record difference exists or for which the buy-in occurred; or
(B) With respect to an issue of municipal securities, to the chief financial officer of the issuer of the securities for which the aged record difference exists or for which the buy-in occurred.
(c)
Reports to appropriate regulatory agencies
(1) Within ten business days following the end of each calendar quarter, every recordkeeping transfer agent shall report the information specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section to its appropriate regulatory agency in accordance with § 240.17Ad-2(h), when the aggregate market value of aged record differences for all issues for which it performs recordkeeping functions exceeds the thresholds specified below:
(i) $300,000 if it is a recordkeeping transfer agent for 5 or fewer issues;
(ii) $500,000 for 6-24 issues;
(iii) $800,000 for 25-49 issues;
(iv) $1 million for 50-74 issues;
(v) $1.2 million for 75-99 issues;
(vi) $1.4 million for 100-499 issues;
(vii) $1.6 million for 500-999 issues;
(viii) $2.6 million for 1,000-1,999 issues; and
(ix) An additional $1 million for each additional 1,000 issues.
(2) Within ten business days following the end of each calendar quarter, every recordkeeping transfer agent shall report the information specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section to its appropriate regulatory agency in accordance with § 240.17Ad-2(h), concerning buy-ins of all issues for which it acts as recordkeeping transfer agent, when the aggregate market value of all buy-ins executed pursuant to § 240.17Ad-10(g) during that calendar quarter exceeds $100,000.
(3) When the recordkeeping transfer agent has any debits or credits for securities transferred, purchased, redeemed or issued that are unposted to the master securityholder and/or subsidiary files for more than five business days after debits and credits are required to be posted to the master securityholder file or subsidiary files pursuant to § 240.17Ad-10, it shall immediately report such fact to its appropriate regulatory agency in accordance with § 240.17Ad-2(h) and shall state in that report what steps have been, and are being, taken to correct the situation.
(d)
Content of reports.
(1) Each report pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1) and (c)(1) of this section shall set forth with respect to each issue of securities:
(i) The principal dollar amount and related market value of debt securities or the number of shares and related market value of equity securities comprising the aged record difference (including information concerning aged record differences existing as of the effective date of this section);
(ii) The reasons for the aged record difference; and
(iii) The steps being taken or to be taken to resolve the aged record difference.
(2) Each report pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2) and (c)(2) of this section shall set forth with respect to each issue of securities:
(i) The principal dollar amount of debt securities and related market value or the number of shares and related market value of equity securities comprising any buy-in executed pursuant to § 240.17Ad-10(g);
(ii) The party that executed the buy-in; and
(iii) The reason for the buy-in.
(e) For purposes of this section, the market value of an issue shall be determined as of the last business day on which market value information is available during the reporting period.
(f) A copy of any report required under this section shall be retained by
the reporting transfer agent for a period of not less than three years, the first year in an easily accessible place.
(Secs. 2, 17(a), 17A(d) and 23(a) thereof, 15 U.S.C. 78b, 78q(a), 78q-1(d) and 78w(a))
[48 FR 28247, June 21, 1983]
§ 240.17Ad-12
Safeguarding of funds and securities.
(a) Any registered transfer agent that has custody or possession of any funds or securities related to its transfer agent activities shall assure that:
(1) All such securities are held in safekeeping and are handled, in light of all facts and circumstances, in a manner reasonably free from risk of theft, loss or destruction (other than by a transfer agent's certificate destruction procedures pursuant to § 240.17Ad-19); and
(2) All such funds are protected, in light of all facts and circumstances, against misuse. In evaluating which particular safeguards and procedures must be employed, the cost of the various safeguards and procedures as well as the nature and degree of potential financial exposure are two relevant factors.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term
securities
shall have the same meaning as the term
securities certificate
as defined in § 240.17f-1(a)(6).
(Secs. 2, 17(a), 17A(d) and 23(a) thereof, 15 U.S.C. 78b, 78q(a), 78q-1(d) and 78w(a))
[48 FR 28248, June 21, 1983, as amended at 68 FR 74401, Dec. 23, 2003]
§ 240.17Ad-13
Annual study and evaluation of internal accounting control.
(a)
Accountant's report.
Every registered transfer agent, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, shall file annually with the Commission and the transfer agent's appropriate regulatory agency in accordance with § 240.17Ad-2(h), a report specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section prepared by an independent accountant concerning the transfer agent's system of internal accounting control and related procedures for the transfer of record ownership and the safeguarding of related securities and funds. That report shall be filed within 90 calendar days of the date of the study and evaluation set forth in paragraph (a)(1).
(1) The accountant's report shall:
(i) State whether the study and evaluation was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards using the criteria set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section;
(ii) Describe any material inadequacies found to exist as of the date of the study and evaluation and any corrective action taken, or if no material inadequacy existed, the report shall so state;
(iii) Comment on the current status of any material inadequacy described in the immediately preceding report; and
(iv) Indicate the date of the study and evaluation.
(2) The study and evaluation of the transfer agent's system of internal accounting control for the transfer of record ownership and the safeguarding of related securities and funds shall cover the following:
(i) Transferring securities related to changes of ownership (i.e., cancellation of certificates or other instruments evidencing prior ownership and issuance of certificates or instruments evidencing current ownership);
(ii) Registering changes of ownership on the books and records of the issuer;
(iii) Transferring record ownership as a result of corporate actions (e.g., issuance, retirement, redemption, liquidation, conversion, exchange, tender offer or other types of reorganization);
(iv) Dividend disbursement or interest paying-agent activities;
(v) Administering dividend reinvestment programs; and
(vi) Distributing statements respecting initial offerings of securities.
(3) For purposes of this report, the objectives of a transfer agent's system of internal accounting control for the transfer of record ownership and the safeguarding of related securities and funds should be to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that securities and funds are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or disposition and that transfer agent activities are performed promptly and accurately. For purposes of this report, a material inadequacy is a condition for
which the independent accountant believes that the prescribed procedures or the degree of compliance with them do not reduce to a relatively low level the risk that errors or irregularities, in amounts that would have a significant adverse effect on the transfer agent's ability promptly and accurately to transfer record ownership and safeguard related securities and funds, would occur or not be detected within a timely period by employees in the normal course of performing their assigned functions. Occurrence of errors or irregularities more frequently than in isolated instances may be evidence that the system has a material inadequacy. A significant adverse effect on a transfer agent's ability promptly and accurately to transfer record ownership and safeguard related securities and funds could result from any condition or conditions that individually, or taken as a whole, would reasonably be expected to:
(i) Inhibit the transfer agent from promptly and accurately discharging its responsibilities under its contractual agreement with the issuer;
(ii) Result in material financial loss to the transfer agent; or
(iii) Result in a violation of § 240.17Ad-2, 17Ad-10 or 17Ad-12(a).
(b)
Notice of corrective action.
If the accountant's report describes any material inadequacy, the transfer agent shall, within sixty calendar days after receipt of the report, notify the Commission and its appropriate regulatory agency in writing regarding the corrective action taken or proposed to be taken.
(c)
Record retention.
The accountant's report and any documents required by paragraph (b) of this section shall be maintained by the transfer agent for at least three years, the first year in an easily accessible place.
(d)
Exemptions.
The requirements of § 240.17Ad-13 shall not apply to registered transfer agents that qualify for exemptions pursuant to this paragraph, 17Ad-13(d).
(1) A registered transfer agent shall be exempt if it performs transfer agent functions solely for:
(i) Its own securities;
(ii) Securities issued by a subsidiary in which it owns 51% or more of the subsidiary's capital stock; and
(iii) Securities issued by another corporation that owns 51% or more of the capital stock of the registered transfer agent.
(2) A registered transfer agent shall be exempt if it:
(i) Is an exempt transfer agent pursuant to § 240.17AD-4(b); and
(ii) In the case of a transfer agent that performs transfer agent functions for redeemable securities issued by companies registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, maintains master securityholder files consisting of fewer than 1000 shareholder accounts, in the aggregate, for each of such issues for which it performs transfer agent functions.
(3) A registered transfer agent shall be exempt if it is a bank or financial institution subject to regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, provided that it is not notified to the contrary by its appropriate regulatory agency and provided that a report similar in scope to the requirements of § 240.17Ad-13(a) is prepared for either the bank's board of directors or an audit committee of the board of directors.
(Secs. 2, 17(a), 17A(d) and 23(a) thereof, 15 U.S.C. 78b, 78q(a), 78q-1(d) and 78w(a))
[48 FR 28248, June 21, 1983]
§ 240.17Ad-14
Tender agents.
(a)
Establishing book-entry depository accounts.
When securities of a subject company have been declared eligible by one or more qualified registered securities depositories for the services of those depositories at the time a tender or exchange offer is commenced, no registered transfer agent shall act on behalf of the bidder as a depositary, in the case of a tender offer, or an exchange agent, in the case of an exchange offer, in connection with a tender or exchange offer, unless that transfer agent has established, within two business days after commencement
of the offer, specially designated accounts. These accounts shall be maintained throughout the duration of the offer, including protection periods, with all qualified registered securities depositories holding the subject company's securities, for purposes of receiving from depository participants securities being tendered to the bidder by book-entry delivery pursuant to transmittal letters and other documentation and for purposes of allowing tender agents to return to depository participants by book-entry movement securities withdrawn from the offer.
(b)
Exclusions.
The rule shall not apply to tender or exchange offers (1) that are made for a class of securities of a subject company that has fewer than (i) 500 security holders of record for that class, or (ii) 500,000 shares of that class outstanding; or (2) that are made exclusively to security holders of fewer than 100 shares of a class of securities.
(c)
Definitions.
For purposes of this rule, (1) the terms
subject company, business day, security holders,
and
transmittal letter
shall be given the meanings provided in § 240.14d-1(b); (2) unless the context otherwise requires, a tender or exchange offer shall be deemed to have commenced as specified in § 240.14d-2; (3) the term
bidder
shall mean any person who makes a tender or exchange offer or on whose behalf a tender or exchange offer is made; (4) a
qualified registered securities depository
shall mean a registered clearing agency having rules and procedures approved by the Commission pursuant to section 19 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to enable book-entry delivery of the securities of the subject company to, and return of those securities from, the transfer agent through the facilities of that securities depository; and (5) the term
depositary
refers to that agent of the bidder receiving securities from tendering depository participants and paying those participants for shares tendered. The term
exchange agent
refers to the agent performing like functions in connection with an exchange offer.
(d)
Exemptions.
The Commission may exempt from the provisions of this rule, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, any registered transfer agent, tender or exchange offer, or class of tender or exchange offers, if the Commission determines that an exemption is consistent with the public interest, the protection of investors, the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions, the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, or the removal of impediments to a national clearance and settlement system.
(Secs. 2, 11A(a)(1)(B), 14(d)(4), 15(c)(3), 15(c)(6), 17A(a), 17A(d)(1), and 23(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78b, 78k-1(a)(1)(B), 78n(d)(4), 78o(c)(3), 78o(c)(6), 78q-1(a), 78q-1(d)(1) and 78w(a)))
[49 FR 3071, Jan. 25, 1984]
§ 240.17Ad-15
Signature guarantees.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following terms shall mean:
(1)
Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(2)
Eligible Guarantor Institution
means:
(i) Banks (as that term is defined in section 3(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1813(a)]);
(ii) Brokers, dealers municipal securities dealers, municipal securities brokers, government securities dealers, and government securities brokers, as those terms are defined under the Act;
(iii) Credit unions (as that term is defined in Section 19 (b)(1)(A) of the Federal Reserve Act [12 U.S.C. 461(b)]);
(iv) National securities exchanges, registered securities associations, clearing agencies, as those terms are used under the Act; and
(v) Savings associations (as that term is defined in section 3(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1813(b)]).
(3)
Guarantee
means a guarantee of the signature of the person endorsing a certificated security, or originating an instruction to transfer ownership of a security or instructions concerning transfer of securities.
(b)
Acceptance of signature guarantees.
A registered transfer agent shall not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity in connection with a guarantee, including the acceptance or rejection of such guarantee, that results
in the inequitable treatment of any eligible guarantor institution or a class of institutions.
(c)
Transfer agent's standards and procedures.
Every registered transfer agent shall establish:
(1) Written standards for the acceptance of guarantees of securities transfers from eligible guarantor institutions; and
(2) Procedures, including written guidelines where appropriate, to ensure that those standards are used in determining whether to accept or reject guarantees from eligible guarantor institutions. Such standards and procedures shall not establish terms and conditions (including those pertaining to financial condition) that, as written or applied, treat different classes of eligible guarantor institutions inequitably, or result in the rejection of a guarantee from an eligible guarantor institution solely because the guarantor institution is of a particular type specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)-(a)(2)(v) of this section.
(d)
Rejection of items presented for transfer.
(1) No registered transfer agent shall reject a request for transfer of a certificated or uncertificated security because the certificate, instruction, or documents accompanying the certificate or instruction includes an unacceptable guarantee, unless the transfer agent determines that the guarantor, if it is an eligible guarantor institution, does not satisfy the transfer agent's written standards or procedures.
(2) A registered transfer agent shall notify the guarantor and the presentor of the rejection and the reasons for the rejection within two business days after rejecting a transfer request because of a determination that the guarantor does not satisfy the transfer agent's written standards or procedures. Notification to the presentor may be accomplished by making the rejected item available to the presentor. Notification to the guarantor may be accomplished by telephone, facsimile, or ordinary mail.
(e)
Record retention.
(1) Every registered transfer agent shall maintain a copy of the standards and procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section in an easily accessible place.
(2) Every registered transfer agent shall make available a copy of the standards and procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section to any person requesting a copy of such standards and procedures. The registered transfer agent shall respond within three days of a request for such standards and procedures by sending the requesting party a copy of the requested transfer agent's standards and procedures.
(3) Every registered transfer agent shall maintain, for a period of three years following the date of the rejection, a record of transfers rejected, including the reason for the rejection, who the guarantor was and whether the guarantor failed to meet the transfer agent's guarantee standards.
(f)
Exclusions.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit a transfer agent from rejecting a request for transfer of a certificated or uncertificated security:
(1) For reasons unrelated to acceptance of the guarantor institution;
(2) Because the person acting on behalf of the guarantor institution is not authorized by that institution to act on its behalf, provided that the transfer agent maintains a list of people authorized to act on behalf of that guarantor institution; or
(3) Because the eligible guarantor institution of a type specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section is neither a member of a clearing corporation nor maintains net capital of at least $100,000.
(g)
Signature guarantee program.
(1) A registered transfer agent shall be deemed to comply with paragraph (c) of this section if its standards and procedures include:
(i) Rejecting a request for transfer because the guarantor is neither a member of nor a participant in a signature guarantee program; or
(ii) Accepting a guarantee from an eligible guarantor institution who, at the time of issuing the guarantee, is a member of or participant in a signature guarantee program.
(2) Within the first six months after revising its standards and procedures to include a signature guarantee program, the transfer agent shall not reject a request for transfer because the guarantor is neither a member of nor
participant in a signature guarantee program, unless the transfer agent has given that guarantor ninety days written notice of the transfer agent's intent to reject transfers with guarantees from non-participating or non-member guarantors.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (g) of this section, the term “signature guarantee program,” means a program, the terms and conditions of which the transfer agent reasonably determines:
(i) To facilitate the equitable treatment of eligible guarantor institutions; and
(ii) To promote the prompt, accurate and safe transfer of securities by providing:
(A) Adequate protection to the transfer agent against risk of financial loss in the event persons have no recourse against the eligible guarantor institution; and
(B) Adequate protection to the transfer agent against the issuance of unauthorized guarantees.
[57 FR 1095, Jan. 10, 1992]
§ 240.17Ad-16
Notice of assumption or termination of transfer agent services.
(a) A registered transfer agent that ceases to perform transfer agent services on behalf of an issuer of securities, including a registered transfer agent that ceases to perform transfer agent services on behalf of an issuer of securities because of a merger or acquisition by another transfer agent, shall send written notice of such termination to the appropriate qualified registered securities depository on or before the later of ten calendar days prior to the effective date of such termination or the day the transfer agent is notified of the effective date of such termination. Such notice shall include the full name, address, telephone number, and Financial Industry Number Standard (“FINS”) number of the transfer agent ceasing to perform the transfer agent services for the issuer; the issuer's name; the issue or issues handled and their CUSIP number(s); and if known, the name, address, and telephone number of the transfer agent that thereafter will provide transfer services for the issuer. If no successor transfer agent is known, the notice shall include the name and address of a contact person at the issuer.
(b) A registered transfer agent that changes its name or address or that assumes transfer agent services on behalf of an issuer of securities, including a transfer agent that assumes transfer agent services on behalf of an issuer of securities because of a merger or acquisition of another transfer agent, shall send written notice of such to the appropriate qualified registered securities depository on or before the later of ten calendar days prior to the effective date of such change in status or the day the transfer agent is notified of the effective date of such change in status. A notice regarding a change of name or address shall include the full name, address, telephone number, and FINS number of the transfer agent and the location where certificates are received for transfer. A notice regarding the assumption of transfer agent services on behalf of an issuer of securities, including assumption of transfer agent services resulting from the merger or acquisition of another transfer agent, shall include the full name, address, telephone number, and FINS number of the transfer agent assuming the transfer agent services for the issuer; the issuer's name; and the issue or issues handled and their CUSIP number(s).
(c) The notice described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be delivered by means of secure communication. For purposes of this section, secure communication shall include telegraph, overnight mail, facsimile, or any other form of secure communication.
(d)(1) The appropriate qualified registered securities depository that receives notices pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall deliver within 24 hours a copy of such notices to each qualified registered securities depository. A qualified registered securities depository that receives notice pursuant to this section shall deliver a copy of such notices to its own participants within 24 hours.
(2) A qualified registered securities depository may comply with its notice requirements under paragraph (d)(1) of this section by making available the notice of all material information from the notice within 24 hours in a manner
set forth in the rules of the qualified registered securities depository.
(3) A qualified registered securities depository shall maintain such notices for a period of not less than two years, the first six months in an easily accessible place. Such notice shall be made available to the Commission or other persons as the Commission may designate by order.
(4) A registered transfer agent that provides notice pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall maintain such notice for a period of not less than two years, the first six months in an easily accessible place.
(e) For purposes of this section, a
qualified registered securities depository
shall mean a clearing agency registered under section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) that performs clearing agency functions as described in section 3(a)(23)(A)(i) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)(A)(i)) and that has rules and procedures concerning its responsibility for maintaining, updating, and providing appropriate access to the information it receives pursuant to this section.
(f) For purposes of this section, an
appropriate qualified registered securities depository
shall mean the qualified registered securities depository that the Commission so designates by order or, in the absence of such designation, the qualified registered securities depository that is the largest holder of record of all qualified registered securities depositories as of the most recent record date.
[59 FR 63661, Dec. 8, 1994]
§ 240.17Ad-17
Lost securityholders and unresponsive payees.
(a)(1) Every recordkeeping transfer agent whose master securityholder file includes accounts of lost securityholders and every broker or dealer that has customer security accounts that include accounts of lost securityholders shall exercise reasonable care to ascertain the correct addresses of such securityholders. In exercising reasonable care to ascertain such lost securityholders' correct addresses, each such recordkeeping transfer agent and each such broker or dealer shall conduct two database searches using at least one information database service. The transfer agent, broker, or dealer shall search by taxpayer identification number or by name if a search based on taxpayer identification number is not reasonably likely to locate the securityholder. Such database searches must be conducted without charge to a lost securityholder and with the following frequency:
(i) Between three and twelve months of such securityholder becoming a lost securityholder; and
(ii) Between six and twelve months after the first search for such lost securityholder by the transfer agent, broker, or dealer.
(2) A transfer agent, broker, or dealer may not use a search method or service to establish contact with lost securityholders that results in a charge to a lost securityholder prior to completing the searches set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3) A transfer agent, broker, or dealer need not conduct the searches set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for a lost securityholder if:
(i) It has received documentation that such securityholder is deceased; or
(ii) The aggregate value of assets listed in the lost securityholder's account, including all dividend, interest, and other payments due to the lost securityholder and all securities owned by the lost securityholder as recorded in the master securityholder files of the transfer agent or in the customer security account records of the broker or dealer, is less than $25; or
(iii) The securityholder is not a natural person.
(b) For purposes of this section:
(1)
Information data base service
means either:
(i) Any automated data base service that contains addresses from the entire United States geographic area, contains the names of at least 50% of the United States adult population, is indexed by taxpayer identification number or name, and is updated at least four times a year; or
(ii) Any service or combination of services which produces results comparable to those of the service described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section in locating lost securityholders.
(2)
Lost securityholder
means a securityholder:
(i) To whom an item of correspondence that was sent to the securityholder at the address contained in the transfer agent's master securityholder file or customer security account records of the broker or dealer has been returned as undeliverable; provided, however, that if such item is re-sent within one month to the lost securityholder, the transfer agent, broker, or dealer may deem the securityholder to be a lost securityholder as of the day the resent item is returned as undeliverable; and
(ii) For whom the transfer agent, broker, or dealer has not received information regarding the securityholder's new address.
(c)(1) The paying agent, as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, shall provide not less than one written notification to each unresponsive payee, as defined in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, stating that such unresponsive payee has been sent a check that has not yet been negotiated. Such notification may be sent with a check or other mailing subsequently sent to the unresponsive payee but must be provided no later than seven (7) months (or 210 days) after the sending of the not yet negotiated check. The paying agent shall not be required to send a written notice to an unresponsive payee if such unresponsive payee would be considered a lost securityholder by a transfer agent, broker, or dealer.
(2) The term
paying agent
shall include any issuer, transfer agent, broker, dealer, investment adviser, indenture trustee, custodian, or any other person that accepts payments from the issuer of a security and distributes the payments to the holders of the security.
(3) A securityholder shall be considered an
unresponsive payee
if a check is sent to the securityholder by the paying agent and the check is not negotiated before the earlier of the paying agent's sending the next regularly scheduled check or the elapsing of six (6) months (or 180 days) after the sending of the not yet negotiated check. A securityholder shall no longer be considered an
unresponsive payee
when the securityholder negotiates the check or checks that caused the securityholder to be considered an
unresponsive payee.
(4) A paying agent shall be excluded from the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section where the value of the not yet negotiated check is less than $25.
(5) The requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall have no effect on state escheatment laws.
(d) Every recordkeeping transfer agent, every broker or dealer that has customer security accounts, and every paying agent shall maintain records to demonstrate compliance with the requirements set forth in this section, which records shall include written procedures that describe the transfer agent's, broker's, dealer's, or paying agent's methodology for complying with this section, and shall retain such records in accordance with Rule 17Ad-7(i) (§ 240.17Ad-7(i)).
[62 FR 52237, Oct. 7, 1997; 63 FR 1884, Jan. 12, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 14316, Mar. 25, 2003; 78 FR 4784, Jan. 23, 2013]
§ 240.17Ad-18
Year 2000 Reports to be made by certain transfer agents.
(a) Each registered non-bank transfer agent must file Part I of Form TA-Y2K (§ 249.619 of this chapter) with the Commission describing the transfer agent's preparation for Year 2000 Problems. Part I of Form TA-Y2K shall be filed no later than August 31, 1998, and April 30, 1999. Part I of Form TA-Y2K shall reflect the transfer agent's preparation for the Year 2000 as of July 15, 1998, and March 15, 1999, respectively.
(b) Each registered non-bank transfer agent, except for those transfer agents that qualify for the exemption in paragraph (d) of § 240.17Ad-13, must file with the Commission Part II of Form TA-Y2K (§ 249.619 of this chapter) in addition to Part I of Form TA-Y2K. Part II of Form TA-Y2K report shall address the following topics:
(1) Whether the board of directors (or similar body) of the transfer agent has approved and funded plans for preparing and testing its computer systems for Year 2000 Problems;
(2) Whether the plans of the transfer agent exist in writing and address all mission critical computer systems of the transfer agent wherever located throughout the world;
(3) Whether the transfer agent has assigned existing employees, has hired new employees, or has engaged third parties to provide assistance in addressing Year 2000 Problems; and if so, a description of the work that these groups of individuals have performed as of the date of each report;
(4) The current progress on each stage of preparation for potential problems caused by Year 2000 Problems. These stages are:
(i) Awareness of potential Year 2000 Problems;
(ii) Assessment of what steps the transfer agent must take to address Year 2000 Problems;
(iii) Implementation of the steps needed to address Year 2000 Problems;
(iv) Internal testing of software designed to address Year 2000 Problems, including the number and description of the material exceptions resulting from such testing that are unresolved as of the reporting date;
(v) Point-to point or industry-wide testing of software designed to address Year 2000 Problems (including testing with other transfer agents, other financial institutions, and customers), including the number and description of the material exceptions resulting from such testing that are unresolved as of the reporting date; and
(vi) Implementation of tested software that will address Year 2000 Problems;
(5) Whether the transfer agent has written contingency plans in the event that, after December 31, 1999, it has computer problems caused by Year 2000 Problems; and
(6) What levels of the transfer agent's management are responsible for addressing potential problems caused by Year 2000 Problems, including a description of the responsibilities for each level of management regarding the Year 2000 Problems;
(7) Any additional material information in both reports concerning its management of Year 2000 Problems that could help the Commission assess the transfer agent's readiness for the Year 2000.
(8) Part II of Form TA-Y2K (§ 249.619 of this chapter) shall be filed no later than August 31, 1998, and April 30, 1999. Part II of Form TA-Y2K shall reflect the transfer agent's preparation for the Year 2000 as of July 15, 1998, and March 15, 1999, respectively.
(c) Any non-bank transfer agent that registers between the adoption of the final rule and December 31, 1999, must file with the Commission Part I of Form TA-Y2K (§ 249.619 of this chapter) no later than 30 days after their registration becomes effective. New transfer agents whose registration with the Commission becomes effective between January 1, 1999, and April 30, 1999, would be required to file the second report due on April 30, 1999.
(d) For purposes of this section, the term Year 2000 Problem shall include problems arising from:
(1) Computer software incorrectly reading the date “01/01/00” as being the year 1900 or another incorrect year;
(2) Computer software incorrectly identifying a date in the Year 1999 or any year thereafter;
(3) Computer software failing to detect that the Year 2000 is a leap year; or
(4) Any other computer software error that is directly or indirectly caused by paragraph (d)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
(e) For purposes of this section, the term non-bank transfer agent means a transfer agent whose:
(1) Appropriate regulatory agency, as that term is defined by 15 U.S.C. 78(c)(34)(B), is the Securities and Exchange Commission; and
(2) Is not a savings association, as defined by Section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813, which is regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision.
(f)
Nature and form of reports.
No later than April 30, 1999, every non-bank transfer agent required to file Part II of Form TA-Y2K (§ 249.619 of this chapter) pursuant to paragraph (b)(8) of this section shall file with its Form TA-Y2K an original and two copies of a report prepared by an independent public accountant regarding the non-bank transfer agent's process, as of March 15, 1999, for addressing Year 2000 Problems with the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC. The independent public accountant's report shall be prepared in accordance with standards that have been reviewed by
the Commission and that have been issued by a national organization that is responsible for promulgating authoritative accounting and auditing standards.
[63 FR 37693, July 13, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 58635, Nov. 2, 1998]
§ 240.17Ad-19
Requirements for cancellation, processing, storage, transportation, and destruction or other disposition of securities certificates.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) The terms
cancelled
or
cancellation
means the process in which a securities certificate:
(i) Is physically marked to clearly indicate that it no longer represents a claim against the issuer; and
(ii) Is voided on the records of the transfer agent.
(2) The term
cancelled certificate facility
means any location where securities certificates are cancelled and thereafter processed, stored, transported, destroyed or otherwise disposed of.
(3) The term
certificate number
means a unique identification or serial number that is assigned and affixed by an issuer or transfer agent to each securities certificate.
(4) The term
controlled access
means the practice of permitting the entry of only authorized personnel to areas where securities certificates are cancelled and thereafter processed, stored, transported, destroyed or otherwise disposed of.
(5) The term
CUSIP number
means the unique identification number that is assigned to each securities issue.
(6) The term
destruction
means the physical ruination of a securities certificate by a transfer agent as part of the certificate destruction procedures that make the reconstruction of the certificate impossible.
(7) The term
otherwise disposed of
means any disposition other than by destruction.
(8) The term
securities certificate
has the same meaning that it has in § 240.17f-1(a)(6).
(b)
Required procedures for the cancellation, storage, transportation, destruction, or other disposition of securities certificates.
Every transfer agent involved in the handling, processing, or storage of securities certificates shall establish and implement written procedures for the cancellation, storage, transportation, destruction, or other disposition of securities certificates. This requirement applies to any agent that the transfer agent uses to perform any of these activities.
(c)
Written procedures.
The written procedures required by paragraph (b) of this section at a minimum shall provide that:
(1) There is controlled access to any cancelled certificate facility;
(2) Each cancelled certificate be marked with the word “CANCELLED” by stamp or perforation on the face of the certificate unless the transfer agent has procedures adopted pursuant to this rule for the destruction of cancelled certificates within three business days of their cancellation;
(3) A record that is indexed and retrievable by CUSIP and certificate number that contains the CUSIP number, certificate number with any prefix or suffix, denomination, registration, issue date, and cancellation date of each cancelled certificate;
(4) A record that is indexed and retrievable by CUSIP and certificate number of each destroyed securities certificate or securities certificate otherwise disposed of, the records must contain for each destroyed or otherwise disposed of certificate the CUSIP number, certificate number with any prefix or suffix, denomination, registration, issue date, and cancellation date, and additionally for any certificate otherwise disposed of a record of how it was disposed of, the name and address of the party to whom it was disposed, and the date of disposition;
(5) The physical transportation of cancelled certificates be made in a secure manner and that the transfer agent maintain separately a record of the CUSIP number and certificate number of each certificate in transit;
(6) Authorized personnel of the transfer agent or its designee supervise and witness the intentional destruction of any cancelled certificate and retain copies of all records relating to certificates which were destroyed; and
(7) Reports to the Lost and Stolen Securities Program be effected in a
timely and complete manner, as provided in § 240.17f-1 of any cancelled certificate that is lost, stolen, missing, or counterfeit.
(d)
Recordkeeping.
Every transfer agent subject to this section shall maintain records that demonstrate compliance with the requirements set forth in this section and that describe the transfer agent's methodology for complying with this section for three years, the first year in an easily accessible place.
(e)
Exemptive authority.
Upon written application or upon its own motion, the Commission may grant an exemption from any of the provisions of this section, either unconditionally or on specific terms and conditions, to any transfer agent or any class of transfer agents and to any securities certificate or any class of securities certificates.
[68 FR 74401, Dec. 23, 2003]
§ 240.17Ad-20
Issuer restrictions or prohibitions on ownership by securities intermediaries.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, no registered transfer agent shall transfer any equity security registered pursuant to section 12 or any equity security that subjects an issuer to reporting under section 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
or 15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) if such security is subject to any restriction or prohibition on transfer to or from a securities intermediary in its capacity as such.
(b) The term
securities intermediary
means a clearing agency registered under section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) or a person, including a bank, broker, or dealer, that in the ordinary course of its business maintains securities accounts for others in its capacity as such.
(c) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any equity security issued by a partnership as defined in rule 901(b) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.901(b) of this chapter).
[69 FR 70862, Dec. 7, 2004]
§ 240.17Ad-21T
Operational capability in a Year 2000 environment.
(a) This section applies to every registered non-bank transfer agent that uses computers in the conduct of its business as a transfer agent.
(b)(1) You have a material Year 2000 problem if, at any time on or after August 31, 1999:
(i) Any of your mission critical computer systems incorrectly identifies any date in the Year 1999 or the Year 2000, and
(ii) The error impairs or, if uncorrected, is likely to impair, any of your mission critical systems under your control.
(2) You will be presumed to have a material Year 2000 problem if, at any time on or after August 31, 1999, you:
(i) Do not have written procedures reasonably designed to identify, assess, and remediate any material Year 2000 problems in your mission critical systems under your control;
(ii) Have not verified your Year 2000 remediation efforts through reasonable internal testing of your mission critical systems under your control and reasonable testing of your external links under your control; or
(iii) Have not remediated all exceptions related to your mission critical systems contained in any independent public accountant's report prepared on your behalf pursuant to § 240.17Ad-18(f).
(c) If you have or are presumed to have a material Year 2000 problem, you must immediately notify the Commission and your issuers of the problem. You must send this notice to the Commission by overnight delivery to the Division of Market Regulation, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549-6628 Attention: Y2K Compliance.
(d)(1) If you are a registered non-bank transfer agent that has or is presumed to have a material Year 2000 problem, you may not, on or after August 31, 1999, engage in any transfer agent function, including:
(i) Countersigning such securities upon issuance;
(ii) Monitoring the issuance of such securities with a view to preventing unauthorized issuance;
(iii) Registering the transfer of such securities;
(iv) Exchanging or converting such securities; or
(v) Transferring record ownership of securities by bookkeeping entry without physical issuance of securities certificates.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1) of this section, you may continue to engage in transfer agent functions:
(i) Until December 1, 1999, if you have submitted a certificate to the Commission in compliance with paragraph (e) of this section; or
(ii) Solely to the extent necessary to effect an orderly cessation or transfer of these functions.
(e)(1)(i) If you are a registered non-bank transfer agent that has or is presumed to have a material Year 2000 problem, you may, in addition to providing the Commission the notice required by paragraph (c) of this section, provide the Commission and your issuers a certificate signed by your chief executive officer (or an individual with similar authority) stating:
(A) You are in the process of remediating your material Year 2000 problem;
(B) You have scheduled testing of your affected mission critical systems to verify that the material Year 2000 problem has been remediated, and specify the testing dates;
(C) The date by which you anticipate completing remediation of the material Year 2000 problem in your mission critical systems; and
(D) Based on inquiries and to the best of the chief executive officer's knowledge, you do not anticipate that the existence of the material Year 2000 problem in your mission critical systems will impair your ability, depending on the nature of your business, to assure the prompt and accurate transfer and processing of securities, the maintenance of master securityholder files, or the production and retention of required records; and you anticipate that the steps referred to in paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section will result in remedying the material Year 2000 problem on or before November 15, 1999.
(ii) If the information contained in any certificate provided to the Commission pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section is or becomes misleading or inaccurate for any reason, you must promptly file an updated certificate correcting such information. In addition to the information contained in the certificate, you may provide the Commission with any other information necessary to establish that your mission critical systems will not have material Year 2000 problems on or after November 15, 1999.
(2) If you have submitted a certificate pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, you must submit a certificate to the Commission and your issuers signed by your chief executive officer (or an individual with similar authority) on or before November 15, 1999, stating that, based on inquiries and to the best of the chief executive officer's knowledge, you have remediated your Year 2000 problem or that you will cease operations. This certificate must be sent to the Commission by overnight delivery to the Division of Market Regulation, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549-6628 Attention: Y2K Compliance.
(f) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(2) of this section, you must comply with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section if you have been so ordered by the Commission or by a court.
(g) Beginning August 31, 1999, and ending March 31, 2000, you must make backup records for all master securityholder files at the close of each business day and must preserve these backup records for a rolling five business day period in a manner that will allow for the transfer and conversion of the records to a successor transfer agent. If you have a material Year 2000 problem, you must preserve for at least one year the five day backup records immediately preceding the day the problem was discovered. In addition, you must make at the close of business on December 27 through 31, 1999, a backup copy for all master securityholder files and preserve these records for at least one year. Such backup records must permit the timely restoration of such systems to their condition existing prior to experiencing the material Year 2000 problem. Copies of the backup records must be kept in an easily accessible place but must not be located with or held in the same computer system as the primary records, and you must be able to immediately produce or reproduce them.
You must furnish promptly to a representative of the Commission such legible, true, and complete copies of those records, as may be requested.
(h) For the purposes of this section:
(1) The term
mission critical system
means any system that is necessary, depending on the nature of your business, to assure the prompt and accurate transfer and processing of securities, the maintenance of master securityholder files, and the production and retention of required records as described in paragraph (d) of this section;
(2) The term
customer
includes an issuer, transfer agent, or other person for which you provide transfer agent services;
(3) The term
registered non-bank transfer agent
means a transfer agent, whose appropriate regulatory agency is the Commission and not the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and
(4) The term
master securityholder file
has the same definition as defined in § 240.17Ad-9(b).
(i) This temporary section will expire on July 1, 2001.
[64 FR 42029, Aug. 3, 1999, as amended at 73 FR 32228, June 5, 2008]
§ 240.17ad-22
Standards for clearing agencies.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Affiliated counterparty
means any counterparty which meets the following criteria:
(i) The counterparty is either a bank (as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(6)), broker (as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(4)), dealer (as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(5)), or futures commission merchant (as defined in 7 U.S.C. 1a(28)), or any entity regulated as a bank, broker, dealer, or futures commission merchant in its home jurisdiction;
(ii) The counterparty holds, directly or indirectly, a majority ownership interest in the direct participant, or the direct participant, directly or indirectly, holds a majority ownership interest in the counterparty, or a third party, directly or indirectly, holds a majority ownership interest in both the direct participant and the counterparty; and
(iii) The counterparty, direct participant, or third party referenced in paragraph (ii) of this definition as holding the majority ownership interest would be required to report its financial statements on a consolidated basis under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or International Financial Reporting Standards, and such consolidated financial statements include the financial results of the majority-owned party or of both majority-owned parties.
Backtesting
means an ex-post comparison of actual outcomes with expected outcomes derived from the use of margin models.
Central bank
means a reserve bank or monetary authority of a central government (including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any of the Federal Reserve Banks) and the Bank for International Settlements.
Central counterparty
means a clearing agency that interposes itself between the counterparties to securities transactions, acting functionally as the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer.
Central securities depository
means a clearing agency that is a securities depository as described in Section 3(a)(23)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)(A)).
Clearing agency involved in activities with a more complex risk profile
means a clearing agency registered with the Commission under Section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) that:
(i) Provides central counterparty services for security-based swaps;
(ii) Has been determined by the Commission to be involved in activities with a more complex risk profile at the time of its initial registration; or
(iii) Is subsequently determined by the Commission to be involved in activities with a more complex risk profile pursuant to § 240.17Ab2-2(b).
Covered clearing agency
means a registered clearing agency that provides the services of a central counterparty or central securities depository.
Designated clearing agency
means a clearing agency registered with the Commission under Section 17A of the
Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) that is designated systemically important by the Financial Stability Oversight Council pursuant to the Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5461
et seq.
) and for which the Commission is the supervisory agency as defined in Section 803(8) of the Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5461
et seq.
).
Eligible secondary market transaction
refers to a secondary market transaction in U.S. Treasury securities of a type accepted for clearing by a registered covered clearing agency that is:
(i) A repurchase or reverse repurchase agreement collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities, in which one of the counterparties is a direct participant; or
(ii) A purchase or sale, between a direct participant and:
(A) Any counterparty, if the direct participant of the covered clearing agency brings together multiple buyers and sellers using a trading facility (such as a limit order book) and is a counterparty to both the buyer and seller in two separate transactions; or
(B) Registered broker-dealer, government securities broker, or government securities dealer; except that:
(iii) Any purchase or sale transaction in U.S. Treasury securities or repurchase or reverse repurchase agreement collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities in which one counterparty is a central bank, a sovereign entity, an international financial institution, or a natural person shall be excluded from the definition set forth in this section of an eligible secondary market transaction;
(iv) Any repurchase or reverse repurchase agreement collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities in which one counterparty is a covered clearing agency providing central counterparty services or a derivatives clearing organization (
see
7 U.S.C. 7a-1 and 17 CFR 39.3), or is regulated as a central counterparty in its home jurisdiction, shall be excluded from the definition set forth in this section of an eligible secondary market transaction;
(v) Any repurchase or reverse repurchase agreement collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities in which one counterparty is a state or local government shall be excluded from the definition set forth in this section of an eligible secondary market transaction;
(vi) Any repurchase or reverse repurchase agreement collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities entered into between a direct participant and an affiliated counterparty shall be excluded from the definition set forth in this section of an eligible secondary market transaction, provided that the affiliated counterparty submit for clearance and settlement all other repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities to which the affiliate is a party.
Financial market utility
has the same meaning as defined in Section 803(6) of the Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5462(6)).
International financial institution
means the African Development Bank; African Development Fund; Asian Development Bank; Banco Centroamericano de Integración Económica; Bank for Economic Cooperation and Development in the Middle East and North Africa; Caribbean Development Bank; Corporación Andina de Fomento; Council of Europe Development Bank; European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; European Investment Bank; European Investment Fund; European Stability Mechanism; Inter-American Development Bank; Inter-American Investment Corporation; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Development Association; International Finance Corporation; International Monetary Fund; Islamic Development Bank; Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency; Nordic Investment Bank; North American Development Bank; and any other entity that provides financing for national or regional development in which the U.S. Government is a shareholder or contributing member.
Link
means, for purposes of paragraph (e)(20) of this section, a set of contractual and operational arrangements between two or more clearing agencies, financial market utilities, or trading markets that connect them directly or indirectly for the purposes of
participating in settlement, cross margining, expanding their services to additional instruments or participants, or for any other purposes material to their business.
Model validation
means an evaluation of the performance of each material risk management model used by a covered clearing agency (and the related parameters and assumptions associated with such models), including initial margin models, liquidity risk models, and models used to generate clearing or guaranty fund requirements, performed by a qualified person who is free from influence from the persons responsible for the development or operation of the models or policies being validated.
Net capital
as used in paragraph (b)(7) of this section means net capital as defined in § 240.15c3-1 for broker-dealers or any similar risk adjusted capital calculation for all other prospective clearing members.
Normal market conditions
as used in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section means conditions in which the expected movement of the price of cleared securities would produce changes in a clearing agency's exposures to its participants that would be expected to breach margin requirements or other risk control mechanisms only one percent of the time.
Participant family
means that if a participant directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, another participant then the affiliated participants shall be collectively deemed to be a single participant family for purposes of paragraphs (b)(3), (d)(14), (e)(4), and (e)(7) of this section.
Potential future exposure
means the maximum exposure estimated to occur at a future point in time with an established single-tailed confidence level of at least 99 percent with respect to the estimated distribution of future exposure.
Qualifying liquid resources
means, for any covered clearing agency, the following, in each relevant currency:
(i) Cash held either at the central bank of issue or at creditworthy commercial banks;
(ii) Assets that are readily available and convertible into cash through prearranged funding arrangements, such as:
(A) Committed arrangements without material adverse change provisions, including:
(
1
) Lines of credit;
(
2
) Foreign exchange swaps; and
(
3
) Repurchase agreements; or
(B) Other prearranged funding arrangements determined to be highly reliable even in extreme but plausible market conditions by the board of directors of the covered clearing agency following a review conducted for this purpose not less than annually; and
(iii) Other assets that are readily available and eligible for pledging to (or conducting other appropriate forms of transactions with) a relevant central bank, if the covered clearing agency has access to routine credit at such central bank in a jurisdiction that permits said pledges or other transactions by the covered clearing agency.
Security-based swap
means a security-based swap as defined in Section 3(a)(68) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68)).
Sensitivity analysis
means an analysis that involves analyzing the sensitivity of a model to its assumptions, parameters, and inputs that:
(i) Considers the impact on the model of both moderate and extreme changes in a wide range of inputs, parameters, and assumptions, including correlations of price movements or returns if relevant, which reflect a variety of historical and hypothetical market conditions;
(ii) Uses actual portfolios and, where applicable, hypothetical portfolios that reflect the characteristics of proprietary positions and customer positions;
(iii) Considers the most volatile relevant periods, where practical, that have been experienced by the markets served by the clearing agency; and
(iv) Tests the sensitivity of the model to stressed market conditions, including the market conditions that may ensue after the default of a member and other extreme but plausible conditions as defined in a covered clearing agency's risk policies.
Sovereign entity
means a central government (including the U.S. Government), or an agency, department, or ministry of a central government.
State or local government
means a state or any political subdivision thereof, or an agency or instrumentality of a State or any political subdivision thereof, but shall not include any pension or retirement plan established and maintained by a State, its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of a State or its political subdivisions, for the benefit of its employees.
Stress testing
means the estimation of credit or liquidity exposures that would result from the realization of potential stress scenarios, such as extreme price changes, multiple defaults, or changes in other valuation inputs and assumptions.
Systemically important in multiple jurisdictions
means, with respect to a covered clearing agency, a covered clearing agency that has been determined by the Commission to be systemically important in more than one jurisdiction pursuant to § 240.17Ab2-2.
Transparent
means, for the purposes of paragraphs (e)(1), (2), and (10) of this section, to the extent consistent with other statutory and Commission requirements on confidentiality and disclosure, that documentation required under paragraphs (e)(1), (2), and (10) is disclosed to the Commission and, as appropriate, to other relevant authorities, to clearing members and to customers of clearing members, to the owners of the covered clearing agency, and to the public.
U.S. Treasury security
means any security issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(b) A registered clearing agency that performs central counterparty services shall establish, implement, maintain and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to:
(1) Measure its credit exposures to its participants at least once a day and limit its exposures to potential losses from defaults by its participants under normal market conditions so that the operations of the clearing agency would not be disrupted and non-defaulting participants would not be exposed to losses that they cannot anticipate or control.
(2) Use margin requirements to limit its credit exposures to participants under normal market conditions and use risk-based models and parameters to set margin requirements and review such margin requirements and the related risk-based models and parameters at least monthly.
(3) Maintain sufficient financial resources to withstand, at a minimum, a default by the participant family to which it has the largest exposure in extreme but plausible market conditions; provided that a registered clearing agency acting as a central counterparty for security-based swaps shall maintain additional financial resources sufficient to withstand, at a minimum, a default by the two participant families to which it has the largest exposures in extreme but plausible market conditions, in its capacity as a central counterparty for security-based swaps. Such policies and procedures may provide that the additional financial resources may be maintained by the security-based swap clearing agency generally or in separately maintained funds.
(4) Provide for an annual model validation consisting of evaluating the performance of the clearing agency's margin models and the related parameters and assumptions associated with such models by a qualified person who is free from influence from the persons responsible for the development or operation of the models being validated.
(5) Provide the opportunity for a person that does not perform any dealer or security-based swap dealer services to obtain membership on fair and reasonable terms at the clearing agency to clear securities for itself or on behalf of other persons.
(6) Have membership standards that do not require that participants maintain a portfolio of any minimum size or that participants maintain a minimum transaction volume.
(7) Provide a person that maintains net capital equal to or greater than $50 million with the ability to obtain membership at the clearing agency, provided that such persons are able to
comply with other reasonable membership standards, with any net capital requirements being scalable so that they are proportional to the risks posed by the participant's activities to the clearing agency; provided, however, that the clearing agency may provide for a higher net capital requirement as a condition for membership at the clearing agency if the clearing agency demonstrates to the Commission that such a requirement is necessary to mitigate risks that could not otherwise be effectively managed by other measures and the Commission approves the higher net capital requirement as part of a rule filing or clearing agency registration application.
(c)
Record of financial resources and annual audited financial statements.
(1) Each fiscal quarter (based on calculations made as of the last business day of the clearing agency's fiscal quarter), or at any time upon Commission request, a registered clearing agency that performs central counterparty services shall calculate and maintain a record, in accordance with § 240.17a-1 of this chapter, of the financial and qualifying liquid resources necessary to meet the requirements, as applicable, of paragraphs (b)(3), (e)(4), and (e)(7) of this section, and sufficient documentation to explain the methodology it uses to compute such financial resources or qualifying liquid resources requirement.
(2) Within 60 days after the end of its fiscal year, each registered clearing agency shall post on its Web site its annual audited financial statements. Such financial statements shall:
(i) Include, for the clearing agency and its subsidiaries, consolidated balance sheets as of the end of the two most recent fiscal years and statements of income, changes in stockholders' equity and other comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the two most recent fiscal years;
(ii) Be prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, except that for a clearing agency that is a corporation or other organization incorporated or organized under the laws of any foreign country the consolidated financial statements may be prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board;
(iii) Be audited in accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board by a registered public accounting firm that is qualified and independent in accordance with 17 CFR 210.2-01; and
(iv) Include a report of the registered public accounting firm that complies with paragraphs (a) through (d) of 17 CFR 210.2-02.
(d) Each registered clearing agency that is not a covered clearing agency shall establish, implement, maintain and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to, as applicable:
(1) Provide for a well-founded, transparent, and enforceable legal framework for each aspect of its activities in all relevant jurisdictions.
(2) Require participants to have sufficient financial resources and robust operational capacity to meet obligations arising from participation in the clearing agency; have procedures in place to monitor that participation requirements are met on an ongoing basis; and have participation requirements that are objective and publicly disclosed, and permit fair and open access.
(3) Hold assets in a manner that minimizes risk of loss or of delay in its access to them; and invest assets in instruments with minimal credit, market and liquidity risks.
(4) Identify sources of operational risk and minimize them through the development of appropriate systems, controls, and procedures; implement systems that are reliable, resilient and secure, and have adequate, scalable capacity; and have business continuity plans that allow for timely recovery of operations and fulfillment of a clearing agency's obligations.
(5) Employ money settlement arrangements that eliminate or strictly limit the clearing agency's settlement bank risks, that is, its credit and liquidity risks from the use of banks to effect money settlements with its participants; and require funds transfers to the clearing agency to be final when effected.
(6) Be cost-effective in meeting the requirements of participants while maintaining safe and secure operations.
(7) Evaluate the potential sources of risks that can arise when the clearing agency establishes links either cross-border or domestically to clear or settle trades, and ensure that the risks are managed prudently on an ongoing basis.
(8) Have governance arrangements that are clear and transparent to fulfill the public interest requirements in Section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) applicable to clearing agencies, to support the objectives of owners and participants, and to promote the effectiveness of the clearing agency's risk management procedures.
(9) Provide market participants with sufficient information for them to identify and evaluate the risks and costs associated with using its services.
(10) Immobilize or dematerialize securities certificates and transfer them by book entry to the greatest extent possible when the clearing agency provides central securities depository services.
(11) Make key aspects of the clearing agency's default procedures publicly available and establish default procedures that ensure that the clearing agency can take timely action to contain losses and liquidity pressures and to continue meeting its obligations in the event of a participant default.
(12) Ensure that final settlement occurs no later than the end of the settlement day; and require that intraday or real-time finality be provided where necessary to reduce risks.
(13) Eliminate principal risk by linking securities transfers to funds transfers in a way that achieves delivery versus payment.
(14) Institute risk controls, including collateral requirements and limits to cover the clearing agency's credit exposure to each participant family exposure fully, that ensure timely settlement in the event that the participant with the largest payment obligation is unable to settle when the clearing agency provides central securities depository services and extends intraday credit to participants.
(15) State to its participants the clearing agency's obligations with respect to physical deliveries and identify and manage the risks from these obligations.
(e) Each covered clearing agency shall establish, implement, maintain and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to, as applicable:
(1) Provide for a well-founded, clear, transparent, and enforceable legal basis for each aspect of its activities in all relevant jurisdictions.
(2) Provide for governance arrangements that:
(i) Are clear and transparent;
(ii) Clearly prioritize the safety and efficiency of the covered clearing agency;
(iii) Support the public interest requirements in Section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) applicable to clearing agencies, and the objectives of owners and participants;
(iv) Establish that the board of directors and senior management have appropriate experience and skills to discharge their duties and responsibilities;
(v) Specify clear and direct lines of responsibility; and
(vi) Consider the interests of participants' customers, securities issuers and holders, and other relevant stakeholders of the covered clearing agency.
(3) Maintain a sound risk management framework for comprehensively managing legal, credit, liquidity, operational, general business, investment, custody, and other risks that arise in or are borne by the covered clearing agency, which:
(i) Includes risk management policies, procedures, and systems designed to identify, measure, monitor, and manage the range of risks that arise in or are borne by the covered clearing agency, that are subject to review on a specified periodic basis and approved by the board of directors annually;
(ii) Includes plans for the recovery and orderly wind-down of the covered clearing agency necessitated by credit losses, liquidity shortfalls, losses from general business risk, or any other losses;
(iii) Provides risk management and internal audit personnel with sufficient
authority, resources, independence from management, and access to the board of directors;
(iv) Provides risk management and internal audit personnel with a direct reporting line to, and oversight by, a risk management committee and an independent audit committee of the board of directors, respectively; and
(v) Provides for an independent audit committee.
(4) Effectively identify, measure, monitor, and manage its credit exposures to participants and those arising from its payment, clearing, and settlement processes, including by:
(i) Maintaining sufficient financial resources to cover its credit exposure to each participant fully with a high degree of confidence;
(ii) To the extent not already maintained pursuant to paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, for a covered clearing agency providing central counterparty services that is either systemically important in multiple jurisdictions or a clearing agency involved in activities with a more complex risk profile, maintaining additional financial resources at the minimum to enable it to cover a wide range of foreseeable stress scenarios that include, but are not limited to, the default of the two participant families that would potentially cause the largest aggregate credit exposure for the covered clearing agency in extreme but plausible market conditions;
(iii) To the extent not already maintained pursuant to paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, for a covered clearing agency not subject to paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, maintaining additional financial resources at the minimum to enable it to cover a wide range of foreseeable stress scenarios that include, but are not limited to, the default of the participant family that would potentially cause the largest aggregate credit exposure for the covered clearing agency in extreme but plausible market conditions;
(iv) Including prefunded financial resources, exclusive of assessments for additional guaranty fund contributions or other resources that are not prefunded, when calculating the financial resources available to meet the standards under paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable;
(v) Maintaining the financial resources required under paragraphs (e)(4)(ii) and (iii) of this section, as applicable, in combined or separately maintained clearing or guaranty funds;
(vi) Testing the sufficiency of its total financial resources available to meet the minimum financial resource requirements under paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable, by:
(A) Conducting stress testing of its total financial resources once each day using standard predetermined parameters and assumptions;
(B) Conducting a comprehensive analysis on at least a monthly basis of the existing stress testing scenarios, models, and underlying parameters and assumptions, and considering modifications to ensure they are appropriate for determining the covered clearing agency's required level of default protection in light of current and evolving market conditions;
(C) Conducting a comprehensive analysis of stress testing scenarios, models, and underlying parameters and assumptions more frequently than monthly when the products cleared or markets served display high volatility or become less liquid, or when the size or concentration of positions held by the covered clearing agency's participants increases significantly; and
(D) Reporting the results of its analyses under paragraphs (e)(4)(vi)(B) and (C) of this section to appropriate decision makers at the covered clearing agency, including but not limited to, its risk management committee or board of directors, and using these results to evaluate the adequacy of and adjust its margin methodology, model parameters, models used to generate clearing or guaranty fund requirements, and any other relevant aspects of its credit risk management framework, in supporting compliance with the minimum financial resources requirements set forth in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section;
(vii) Performing a model validation for its credit risk models not less than annually or more frequently as may be contemplated by the covered clearing agency's risk management framework
established pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section;
(viii) Addressing allocation of credit losses the covered clearing agency may face if its collateral and other resources are insufficient to fully cover its credit exposures, including the repayment of any funds the covered clearing agency may borrow from liquidity providers; and
(ix) Describing the covered clearing agency's process to replenish any financial resources it may use following a default or other event in which use of such resources is contemplated.
(5) Limit the assets it accepts as collateral to those with low credit, liquidity, and market risks, and set and enforce appropriately conservative haircuts and concentration limits if the covered clearing agency requires collateral to manage its or its participants' credit exposure; and require a review of the sufficiency of its collateral haircuts and concentration limits to be performed not less than annually.
(6) Cover, if the covered clearing agency provides central counterparty services, its credit exposures to its participants by establishing a risk-based margin system that, at a minimum:
(i) Considers, and produces margin levels commensurate with, the risks and particular attributes of each relevant product, portfolio, and market, and, if the covered clearing agency provides central counterparty services for U.S. Treasury securities, calculates, collects, and holds margin amounts from a direct participant for its proprietary positions in Treasury securities separately and independently from margin calculated and collected from that direct participant in connection with U.S. Treasury securities transactions by an indirect participant that relies on the services provided by the direct participant to access the covered clearing agency's payment, clearing, or settlement facilities;
(ii)(A) Marks participant positions to market and collects margin (including variation margin or equivalent charges if relevant) at least daily;
(B) Monitors intraday exposures on an ongoing basis;
(C) Includes the authority and operational capacity to make intraday margin calls, as frequently as circumstances warrant, including the following circumstances:
(
1
) When risk thresholds specified by the covered clearing agency are breached; or
(
2
) When the products cleared or markets served display elevated volatility; and
(D) Documents when the covered clearing agency determines not to make an intraday call pursuant to its written policies and procedures required under paragraph (e)(6)(ii)(C) of this section;
(iii) Calculates margin sufficient to cover its potential future exposure to participants in the interval between the last margin collection and the close out of positions following a participant default;
(iv)(A) Uses reliable sources of timely price data and other substantive inputs;
(B) Uses procedures (and, with respect to price data, sound valuation models) for addressing circumstances in which price data or other substantive inputs are not readily available or reliable, to ensure that the covered clearing agency can continue to meet its obligations under this section; and
(C) Such procedures under paragraph (e)(6)(iv)(B) of this section must include either:
(
1
) The use of price data or substantive inputs from an alternate source; or
(
2
) If it does not use an alternate source, the use of a risk-based margin system that does not rely on substantive inputs that are unavailable or unreliable;
(v) Uses an appropriate method for measuring credit exposure that accounts for relevant product risk factors and portfolio effects across products;
(vi) Is monitored by management on an ongoing basis and is regularly reviewed, tested, and verified by:
(A) Conducting backtests of its margin model at least once each day using standard predetermined parameters and assumptions;
(B) Conducting a sensitivity analysis of its margin model and a review of its parameters and assumptions for backtesting on at least a monthly basis, and considering modifications to
ensure the backtesting practices are appropriate for determining the adequacy of the covered clearing agency's margin resources;
(C) Conducting a sensitivity analysis of its margin model and a review of its parameters and assumptions for backtesting more frequently than monthly during periods of time when the products cleared or markets served display high volatility or become less liquid, or when the size or concentration of positions held by the covered clearing agency's participants increases or decreases significantly; and
(D) Reporting the results of its analyses under paragraphs (e)(6)(vi)(B) and (C) of this section to appropriate decision makers at the covered clearing agency, including but not limited to, its risk management committee or board of directors, and using these results to evaluate the adequacy of and adjust its margin methodology, model parameters, and any other relevant aspects of its credit risk management framework; and
(vii) Requires a model validation for the covered clearing agency's margin system and related models to be performed not less than annually, or more frequently as may be contemplated by the covered clearing agency's risk management framework established pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(7) Effectively measure, monitor, and manage the liquidity risk that arises in or is borne by the covered clearing agency, including measuring, monitoring, and managing its settlement and funding flows on an ongoing and timely basis, and its use of intraday liquidity by, at a minimum, doing the following:
(i) Maintaining sufficient liquid resources at the minimum in all relevant currencies to effect same-day and, where appropriate, intraday and multiday settlement of payment obligations with a high degree of confidence under a wide range of foreseeable stress scenarios that includes, but is not limited to, the default of the participant family that would generate the largest aggregate payment obligation for the covered clearing agency in extreme but plausible market conditions;
(ii) Holding qualifying liquid resources sufficient to meet the minimum liquidity resource requirement under paragraph (e)(7)(i) of this section in each relevant currency for which the covered clearing agency has payment obligations owed to clearing members;
(iii) Using the access to accounts and services at a Federal Reserve Bank, pursuant to Section 806(a) of the Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5465(a)), or other relevant central bank, when available and where determined to be practical by the board of directors of the covered clearing agency, to enhance its management of liquidity risk;
(iv) Undertaking due diligence to confirm that it has a reasonable basis to believe each of its liquidity providers, whether or not such liquidity provider is a clearing member, has:
(A) Sufficient information to understand and manage the liquidity provider's liquidity risks; and
(B) The capacity to perform as required under its commitments to provide liquidity to the covered clearing agency;
(v) Maintaining and testing with each liquidity provider, to the extent practicable, the covered clearing agency's procedures and operational capacity for accessing each type of relevant liquidity resource under paragraph (e)(7)(i) of this section at least annually;
(vi) Determining the amount and regularly testing the sufficiency of the liquid resources held for purposes of meeting the minimum liquid resource requirement under paragraph (e)(7)(i) of this section by, at a minimum:
(A) Conducting stress testing of its liquidity resources at least once each day using standard and predetermined parameters and assumptions;
(B) Conducting a comprehensive analysis on at least a monthly basis of the existing stress testing scenarios, models, and underlying parameters and assumptions used in evaluating liquidity needs and resources, and considering modifications to ensure they are appropriate for determining the clearing agency's identified liquidity needs and resources in light of current and evolving market conditions;
(C) Conducting a comprehensive analysis of the scenarios, models, and underlying parameters and assumptions used in evaluating liquidity needs and resources more frequently than monthly when the products cleared or markets served display high volatility or become less liquid, when the size or concentration of positions held by the clearing agency's participants increases significantly, or in other appropriate circumstances described in such policies and procedures; and
(D) Reporting the results of its analyses under paragraphs (e)(7)(vi)(B) and (C) of this section to appropriate decision makers at the covered clearing agency, including but not limited to, its risk management committee or board of directors, and using these results to evaluate the adequacy of and adjust its liquidity risk management methodology, model parameters, and any other relevant aspects of its liquidity risk management framework;
(vii) Performing a model validation of its liquidity risk models not less than annually or more frequently as may be contemplated by the covered clearing agency's risk management framework established pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section;
(viii) Addressing foreseeable liquidity shortfalls that would not be covered by the covered clearing agency's liquid resources and seek to avoid unwinding, revoking, or delaying the same-day settlement of payment obligations;
(ix) Describing the covered clearing agency's process to replenish any liquid resources that the clearing agency may employ during a stress event; and
(x) Undertaking an analysis at least once a year that evaluates the feasibility of maintaining sufficient liquid resources at a minimum in all relevant currencies to effect same-day and, where appropriate, intraday and multiday settlement of payment obligations with a high degree of confidence under a wide range of foreseeable stress scenarios that includes, but is not limited to, the default of the two participant families that would potentially cause the largest aggregate payment obligation for the covered clearing agency in extreme but plausible market conditions if the covered clearing agency provides central counterparty services and is either systemically important in multiple jurisdictions or a clearing agency involved in activities with a more complex risk profile.
(8) Define the point at which settlement is final to be no later than the end of the day on which the payment or obligation is due and, where necessary or appropriate, intraday or in real time.
(9) Conduct its money settlements in central bank money, where available and determined to be practical by the board of directors of the covered clearing agency, and minimize and manage credit and liquidity risk arising from conducting its money settlements in commercial bank money if central bank money is not used by the covered clearing agency.
(10) Establish and maintain transparent written standards that state its obligations with respect to the delivery of physical instruments, and establish and maintain operational practices that identify, monitor, and manage the risks associated with such physical deliveries.
(11) When the covered clearing agency provides central securities depository services:
(i) Maintain securities in an immobilized or dematerialized form for their transfer by book entry, ensure the integrity of securities issues, and minimize and manage the risks associated with the safekeeping and transfer of securities;
(ii) Implement internal auditing and other controls to safeguard the rights of securities issuers and holders and prevent the unauthorized creation or deletion of securities, and conduct periodic and at least daily reconciliation of securities issues it maintains; and
(iii) Protect assets against custody risk through appropriate rules and procedures consistent with relevant laws, rules, and regulations in jurisdictions where it operates.
(12) Eliminate principal risk by conditioning the final settlement of one obligation upon the final settlement of the other, regardless of whether the covered clearing agency settles on a
gross or net basis and when finality occurs if the covered clearing agency settles transactions that involve the settlement of two linked obligations.
(13) Ensure the covered clearing agency has the authority and operational capacity to take timely action to contain losses and liquidity demands and continue to meet its obligations by, at a minimum, requiring the covered clearing agency's participants and, when practicable, other stakeholders to participate in the testing and review of its default procedures, including any close-out procedures, at least annually and following material changes thereto.
(14) Enable, when the covered clearing agency provides central counterparty services for security-based swaps or engages in activities that the Commission has determined to have a more complex risk profile, the segregation and portability of positions of a participant's customers and the collateral provided to the covered clearing agency with respect to those positions and effectively protect such positions and related collateral from the default or insolvency of that participant.
(15) Identify, monitor, and manage the covered clearing agency's general business risk and hold sufficient liquid net assets funded by equity to cover potential general business losses so that the covered clearing agency can continue operations and services as a going concern if those losses materialize, including by:
(i) Determining the amount of liquid net assets funded by equity based upon its general business risk profile and the length of time required to achieve a recovery or orderly wind-down, as appropriate, of its critical operations and services if such action is taken;
(ii) Holding liquid net assets funded by equity equal to the greater of either (x) six months of the covered clearing agency's current operating expenses, or (y) the amount determined by the board of directors to be sufficient to ensure a recovery or orderly wind-down of critical operations and services of the covered clearing agency, as contemplated by the plans established under paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, and which:
(A) Shall be in addition to resources held to cover participant defaults or other risks covered under the credit risk standard in paragraph (b)(3) or paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable, and the liquidity risk standard in paragraphs (e)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section; and
(B) Shall be of high quality and sufficiently liquid to allow the covered clearing agency to meet its current and projected operating expenses under a range of scenarios, including in adverse market conditions; and
(iii) Maintaining a viable plan, approved by the board of directors and updated at least annually, for raising additional equity should its equity fall close to or below the amount required under paragraph (e)(15)(ii) of this section.
(16) Safeguard the covered clearing agency's own and its participants' assets, minimize the risk of loss and delay in access to these assets, and invest such assets in instruments with minimal credit, market, and liquidity risks.
(17) Manage the covered clearing agency's operational risks by:
(i) Identifying the plausible sources of operational risk, both internal and external, and mitigating their impact through the use of appropriate systems, policies, procedures, and controls;
(ii) Ensuring that systems have a high degree of security, resiliency, operational reliability, and adequate, scalable capacity; and
(iii) Establishing and maintaining a business continuity plan that addresses events posing a significant risk of disrupting operations.
(18) Establish objective, risk-based, and publicly disclosed criteria for participation, which:
(i) Permit fair and open access by direct and, where relevant, indirect participants and other financial market utilities;
(ii) Require participants to have sufficient financial resources and robust operational capacity to meet obligations arising from participation in the clearing agency;
(iii) Monitor compliance with such participation requirements on an ongoing basis; and
(iv) When the covered clearing agency provides central counterparty services for transactions in U.S. Treasury securities,
(A) Require that any direct participant of such covered clearing agency submit for clearance and settlement all of the eligible secondary market transactions to which such direct participant is a counterparty;
(B) Identify and monitor its direct participants' submission of transactions for clearing as required in paragraph (e)(18)(iv)(A) of this section, including how the covered clearing agency would address a failure to submit transactions in accordance with paragraph (e)(18)(iv)(A) of this section; and
(C) Ensure that it has appropriate means to facilitate access to clearance and settlement services of all eligible secondary market transactions in U.S. Treasury securities, including those of indirect participants, which policies and procedures the board of directors of such covered clearing agency reviews annually.
(19) Identify, monitor, and manage the material risks to the covered clearing agency arising from arrangements in which firms that are indirect participants in the covered clearing agency rely on the services provided by direct participants to access the covered clearing agency's payment, clearing, or settlement facilities.
(20) Identify, monitor, and manage risks related to any link the covered clearing agency establishes with one or more other clearing agencies, financial market utilities, or trading markets.
(21) Be efficient and effective in meeting the requirements of its participants and the markets it serves, and have the covered clearing agency's management regularly review the efficiency and effectiveness of its:
(i) Clearing and settlement arrangements;
(ii) Operating structure, including risk management policies, procedures, and systems;
(iii) Scope of products cleared or settled; and
(iv) Use of technology and communication procedures.
(22) Use, or at a minimum accommodate, relevant internationally accepted communication procedures and standards in order to facilitate efficient payment, clearing, and settlement.
(23) Provide for the following:
(i) Publicly disclosing all relevant rules and material procedures, including key aspects of its default rules and procedures;
(ii) Providing sufficient information to enable participants to identify and evaluate the risks, fees, and other material costs they incur by participating in the covered clearing agency;
(iii) Publicly disclosing relevant basic data on transaction volume and values;
(iv) A comprehensive public disclosure that describes its material rules, policies, and procedures regarding its legal, governance, risk management, and operating framework, accurate in all material respects at the time of publication, that includes:
(A)
Executive summary.
An executive summary of the key points from paragraphs (e)(23)(iv)(B), (C), and (D) of this section;
(B)
Summary of material changes since the last update of the disclosure.
A summary of the material changes since the last update of paragraph (e)(23)(iv)(C) or (D) of this section;
(C)
General background on the covered clearing agency.
A description of:
(
1
) The covered clearing agency's function and the markets it serves;
(
2
) Basic data and performance statistics on the covered clearing agency's services and operations, such as basic volume and value statistics by product type, average aggregate intraday exposures to its participants, and statistics on the covered clearing agency's operational reliability; and
(
3
) The covered clearing agency's general organization, legal and regulatory framework, and system design and operations; and
(D)
Standard-by-standard summary narrative.
A comprehensive narrative disclosure for each applicable standard set forth in paragraphs (e)(1) through (23) of this section with sufficient detail and context to enable a reader to understand the covered clearing agency's approach to controlling the risks and addressing the requirements in each standard; and
(v) Updating the public disclosure under paragraph (e)(23)(iv) of this section every two years, or more frequently following changes to its system or the environment in which it operates to the extent necessary to ensure statements previously provided under paragraph (e)(23)(iv) of this section remain accurate in all material respects.
(f) For purposes of enforcing the Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5461
et seq.
), a designated clearing agency for which the Commission acts as supervisory agency shall be subject to, and the Commission shall have the authority under, the provisions of paragraphs (b) through (n) of Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818) in the same manner and to the same extent as if such designated clearing agency were an insured depository institution and the Commission were the appropriate Federal banking agency for such insured depository institution.
[77 FR 66285, Nov. 2, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 70901, Oct. 13, 2016; 85 FR 28867, May 14, 2020; Redesignated and amended at 89 FR 2829, Jan. 16, 2024; 89 FR 91058, Nov, 18, 2024]
§ 240.17Ad-24
Exemption from clearing agency definition for certain registered security-based swap dealers, registered security-based swap execution facilities, and entities engaging in dealing activity in security-based swaps that are eligible for an exception under § 240.3a71-2(a) (or subject to the period set forth in § 240.3a71-2(b)).
A registered security-based swap dealer, a registered security-based swap execution facility, or an entity engaging in dealing activity in security-based swaps that is eligible for an exception under § 240.3a71-2(a) (or subject to the period set forth in § 240.3a71-2(b)) shall be exempt from inclusion in the term “clearing agency,” as defined in section 3(a)(23)(A) of the Act, where such registered security-based swap dealer, registered security-based swap execution facility, or entity engaging in dealing activity in security-based swaps that is eligible for an exception under § 240.3a71-2(a) (or subject to the period set forth in § 240.3a71-2(b)) would be deemed to be a clearing agency solely by reason of:
(a) Functions performed by such institution as part of customary dealing activities or providing facilities for comparison of data respecting the terms of settlement of securities transactions effected on such registered security-based swap execution facility, respectively; or
(b) Acting on behalf of a clearing agency or participant therein in connection with the furnishing by the clearing agency of services to its participants or the use of services of the clearing agency by its participants.
[86 FR 7643, Feb. 1, 2021]
§ 240.17ad-25
Clearing agency boards of directors and conflicts of interest.
(a)
Definitions.
All terms used in this section have the same meaning as in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and unless the context otherwise requires, the following definitions apply for purposes of this section:
Affiliate
means a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the registered clearing agency.
Board of directors
means the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the registered clearing agency.
Director
means a member of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the registered clearing agency.
Family member
means any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person (other than a tenant or employee) sharing a household with the director or a nominee for director, a trust in which these persons (or the director or a nominee for director) have more than 50 percent of the beneficial interest, a foundation in which these persons (or the director or a nominee for director) control the management of assets, and any other entity in which these persons (or the director or a nominee for director) own more than 50 percent of the voting interests.
Independent director
means a director of the registered clearing agency who has no material relationship with the
registered clearing agency or any affiliate thereof.
Material relationship
means a relationship, whether compensatory or otherwise, that exists or existed during a lookback period of one year from the initial determination in paragraph (b)(2) and that reasonably could affect the independent judgment or decision-making of the director.
Service provider for core services
means any person that, through a written services provider agreement for services provided to or on behalf of the registered clearing agency, on an ongoing basis, directly supports the delivery of clearance or settlement functionality or any other purposes material to the business of the registered clearing agency.
(b)
Composition of the board of directors.
(1) A majority of the members of the board of directors of a registered clearing agency must be independent directors, unless a majority of the voting interests issued as of the immediately prior record date are directly or indirectly held by participants, in which case at least 34 percent of the members of the board of directors must be independent directors.
(2) Each registered clearing agency shall broadly consider all the relevant facts and circumstances, including under paragraph (g) of this section, on an ongoing basis, to affirmatively determine that a director does not have a material relationship with the registered clearing agency or an affiliate of the registered clearing agency, and is not precluded from being an independent director under paragraph (f) of this section. In making such determination, a registered clearing agency must:
(i) Identify the relationships between a director and the registered clearing agency or any affiliate thereof and any circumstances under paragraph (f) of this section;
(ii) Evaluate whether any relationship is likely to impair the independence of the director in performing the duties of director; and
(iii) Document the evaluation and determination in writing.
(c)
Nominating committee.
(1) Each registered clearing agency must establish a nominating committee and a written evaluation process whereby such nominating committee shall evaluate nominees for serving as directors and evaluate the independence of nominees and directors.
(2) A majority of the directors serving on the nominating committee must be independent directors, and the chair of the nominating committee must be an independent director.
(3) The fitness standards for serving as a director shall be specified by the nominating committee, documented in writing, and approved by the board of directors. Such fitness standards must be consistent with the requirements of this section and include that the individual is not subject to any statutory disqualification as defined under Section 3(a)(39) of the Act.
(4) The nominating committee must document the outcome of the written evaluation process consistent with the fitness standards required under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Such process shall:
(i) Take into account each nominee's expertise, availability, and integrity, and demonstrate that the board of directors, taken as a whole, has a diversity of skills, knowledge, experience, and perspectives;
(ii) Demonstrate that the nominating committee has considered whether a particular nominee would complement the other board members, such that, if elected, the board of directors, taken as a whole, would represent the views of the owners and participants, including a selection of directors that reflects the range of different business strategies, models, and sizes across participants, as well as the range of customers and clients the participants serve;
(iii) Demonstrate that the nominating committee considered the views of other stakeholders who may be affected by the decisions of the registered clearing agency, including transfer agents, settlement banks, nostro agents, liquidity providers, technology or other service providers; and
(iv) Identify whether each nominee or director would meet the definition of independent director in paragraphs (a) and (f) of this section, and whether each such nominee or director has a
known material relationship with the registered clearing agency or any affiliate thereof, an owner, a participant, or a representative of another stakeholder of the registered clearing agency described in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section.
(d)
Risk management committee.
(1) Each registered clearing agency must establish a risk management committee (or committees) of the board to assist the board of directors in overseeing the risk management of the registered clearing agency. The membership of each risk management committee must be re-evaluated annually and at all times include representatives from the owners and participants of the registered clearing agency.
(2) In the performance of its duties, the risk management committee must be able to provide a risk-based, independent, and informed opinion on all matters presented to the committee for consideration in a manner that supports the overall risk management, safety and efficiency of the registered clearing agency.
(e)
Committees generally.
If any committee has the authority to act on behalf of the board of directors, the composition of that committee must have at least the same percentage of independent directors as is required for the board of directors, as set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(f)
Circumstances that preclude directors from being independent directors.
In addition to how the definition of independent director set forth in this section is applied by a registered clearing agency, the following circumstances preclude a director from being an independent director, subject to a lookback period of one year (counting back from making the initial determination in paragraph (b)(2) of this section) applying to paragraphs (f)(2) through (6) of this section:
(1) The director is subject to rules, policies, or procedures by the registered clearing agency that may undermine the director's ability to operate unimpeded, such as removal by less than a majority vote of shares that are entitled to vote in such director's election;
(2) The director, or a family member, has an employment relationship with or otherwise receives compensation other than as a director from the registered clearing agency or any affiliate thereof, or the holder of a controlling voting interest of the registered clearing agency;
(3) The director, or a family member, is receiving payments from the registered clearing agency, or any affiliate thereof, or the holder of a controlling voting interest of the registered clearing agency, that reasonably could affect the independent judgment or decision-making of the director, other than the following:
(i) Compensation for services as a director on the board of directors or a committee thereof; or
(ii) Pension and other forms of deferred compensation for prior services not contingent on continued service;
(4) The director, or a family member, is a partner in, or controlling shareholder of, any organization to or from which the registered clearing agency, or any affiliate thereof, or the holder of a controlling voting interest of the registered clearing agency, is making or receiving payments for property or services, other than the following:
(i) Payments arising solely from investments in the securities of the registered clearing agency, or affiliate thereof; or
(ii) Payments under non-discretionary charitable contribution matching programs;
(5) The director, or a family member, is employed as an executive officer of another entity where any executive officers of the registered clearing agency serve on that entity's compensation committee; or
(6) The director, or a family member, is a partner of the outside auditor of the registered clearing agency, or any affiliate thereof, or an employee of the outside auditor who is working on the audit of the registered clearing agency, or any affiliate thereof.
(g)
Conflicts of interest.
Each registered clearing agency must establish, implement, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to:
(1) Identify and document existing or potential conflicts of interest in the decision-making process of the clearing agency involving directors or senior
managers of the registered clearing agency; and
(2) Mitigate or eliminate and document the mitigation or elimination of such conflicts of interest.
(h)
Obligation of directors to report conflicts.
Each registered clearing agency must establish, implement, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to require a director to document and inform the registered clearing agency promptly of the existence of any relationship or interest that reasonably could affect the independent judgment or decision-making of the director.
(i)
Management of risks from relationships with service providers for core services.
Each registered clearing agency must establish, implement, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to:
(1) Require senior management to evaluate and document the risks related to an agreement with a service provider for core services, including under changes to circumstances and potential disruptions, and whether the risks can be managed in a manner consistent with the clearing agency's risk management framework;
(2) Require senior management to submit to the board of directors for review and approval any agreement that would establish a relationship with a service provider for core services, along with the risk evaluation required in paragraph (i)(1) of this section;
(3) Require senior management to be responsible for establishing the policies and procedures that govern relationships and manage risks related to such agreements with service providers for core services and require the board of directors to be responsible for reviewing and approving such policies and procedures; and
(4) Require senior management to perform ongoing monitoring of the relationship, and report to the board of directors for its evaluation of any action taken by senior management to remedy significant deterioration in performance or address changing risks or material issues identified through such monitoring; or if the risks or issues cannot be remedied, require senior management to assess and document weaknesses or deficiencies in the relationship with the service provider for submission to the board of directors.
(j)
Obligation of board of directors to solicit and consider viewpoints of participants and other relevant stakeholders.
Each registered clearing agency must establish, implement, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to require the board of directors to solicit, consider, and document its consideration of the views of participants and other relevant stakeholders of the registered clearing agency regarding material developments in its risk management and operations on a recurring basis.
[88 FR 84509, Dec. 5, 2023]
§ 240.17ad-26
Recovery and orderly wind-down plans of covered clearing agencies.
(a) The plans for the recovery and orderly wind-down of the covered clearing agency referenced in § 240.17ad-22(e)(3)(ii) must:
(1) Identify and describe the covered clearing agency's core payment, clearing, and settlement services and address how the covered clearing agency would continue to provide such core services in the event of a recovery and during an orderly wind-down, including by:
(i) Identifying the staffing roles necessary to support such core services; and
(ii) Analyzing how such staffing roles necessary to support such core services would continue in the event of a recovery and during an orderly wind-down;
(2)(i) Identify and describe any service providers for core services, specifying which core services each service provider supports; and
(ii) Address how the covered clearing agency would ensure that service providers for core services would continue to perform in the event of a recovery and during an orderly wind-down, including consideration of its written agreements with such service providers and whether the obligations under those written agreements are subject to alteration or termination as a result of initiation of the recovery and orderly wind-down plan;
(3) Identify and describe scenarios that may potentially prevent the covered clearing agency from being able to provide its core services identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section as a going concern, including uncovered credit losses (as described in § 240.17ad-22(e)(4)(viii)), uncovered liquidity shortfalls (as described in § 240.17ad-22(e)(7)(viii)), and general business losses (as described in § 240.17ad-22(e)(15));
(4) Identify and describe criteria that could trigger the covered clearing agency's implementation of the recovery and orderly wind-down plans and the process that the covered clearing agency uses to monitor and determine whether the criteria have been met, including the governance arrangements applicable to such process;
(5) Identify and describe the rules, policies, procedures, and any other tools or resources on which the covered clearing agency would rely in a recovery or orderly wind-down;
(6) Address how the rules, policies, procedures, and any other tools or resources identified in paragraph (a)(5) of this section would ensure timely implementation of the recovery and orderly wind-down plan;
(7) Require the covered clearing agency to inform the Commission as soon as practicable when the covered clearing agency is considering implementing a recovery or orderly wind-down;
(8) Include procedures for testing the covered clearing agency's ability to implement the recovery and orderly wind-down plans at least every 12 months, including by:
(i) Requiring the covered clearing agency's participants and, when practicable, other stakeholders to participate in the testing of its plans;
(ii) Requiring that such testing be in addition to testing pursuant to § 240.17ad-22(e)(13);
(iii) Providing for reporting the results of such testing to the covered clearing agency's board of directors and senior management; and
(iv) Specifying the procedures for, as appropriate, amending the plans to address the results of such testing; and
(9) Include procedures requiring review and approval of the plans by the board of directors of the covered clearing agency at least every 12 months or following material changes to the covered clearing agency's operations that would significantly affect the viability or execution of the plans, with such review informed, as appropriate, by the covered clearing agency's testing of the plans.
(b) All terms used in this section have the same meaning as in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and unless the context otherwise requires, the following definitions apply for purposes of this section:
Affiliate
means a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the covered clearing agency.
Orderly wind-down
means the actions of a covered clearing agency to effect the permanent cessation, sale, or transfer of one or more of its core services, as identified by the covered clearing agency pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, in a manner that would not increase the risk of significant liquidity, credit, or operational problems spreading among financial institutions or markets and thereby threaten the stability of the U.S. financial system.
Recovery
means the actions of a covered clearing agency, consistent with its rules, procedures, and other
ex ante
contractual arrangements, to address any uncovered loss, liquidity shortfall, or capital inadequacy, whether arising from participant default or other causes (such as business, operational, or other structural weaknesses), including actions to replenish any depleted prefunded financial resources and liquidity arrangements, as necessary to maintain the covered clearing agency's viability as a going concern and to continue its provision of core services, as identified by the covered clearing agency pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
Service provider for core services
means any person, including an affiliate or a third party, that, through a written agreement for services provided to or on behalf of the covered clearing agency, on an ongoing basis, directly supports the delivery of core services, as
identified by the covered clearing agency pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
[89 FR 91059, Nov. 18, 2024]
§ 240.17Ad-27
Straight-through processing by clearing agencies that provide a central matching service.
(a) A clearing agency that provides a central matching service must establish, implement, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to facilitate straight-through processing of securities transactions at the clearing agency.
(b) A clearing agency that provides a central matching service must submit to the Commission every twelve months a report that includes the following:
(1) A summary of the clearing agency's policies and procedures required under paragraph (a) of this section, current as of the last day of the twelve-month period covered by the report required under paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) A qualitative description of the clearing agency's progress in facilitating straight-through processing during the twelve-month period covered by the report required under paragraph (b) of this section;
(3) A quantitative presentation of data that includes:
(i) The total number of trades submitted to the clearing agency for processing;
(ii) The total number of allocations submitted to the clearing agency;
(iii) The total number of confirmations submitted to the clearing agency, as well as the total number of confirmations cancelled by a user;
(iv) The percentage of confirmations submitted to the clearing agency that are affirmed on trade date, specifying to the extent practicable the relevant timeframe in which the affirmation is processed on trade date;
(v) The percentage of allocations and confirmations submitted to the clearing agency that are matched and automatically confirmed through the clearing agency's services; and
(vi) Metrics concerning the use of manual and automated processes by the clearing agency's users with respect to its services that may be used to assess progress in facilitating straight-through processing.
(4) Each of the data sets required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall be:
(i) Organized on a month-by-month basis, beginning with January of each year, for the twelve months covered by the report required under paragraph (b) of this section;
(ii) Separated, where applicable, between the use of central matching and electronic trade confirmation services offered by the clearing agency;
(iii) Separated, as appropriate, by asset class;
(iv) Separated by type of user; and
(v) Presented on an anonymized and aggregated basis.
(5) A qualitative description of the actions the clearing agency intends to take to further facilitate straight-through processing of securities transactions at the clearing agency during the twelve-month period that follows the period covered by the report required under paragraph (b) of this section.
(c) Each report required under paragraph (b) of this section must be filed within 60 days of the end of the twelve-month period covered by the report required under paragraph (b) of this section, and the twelve-month period covered by each report shall commence on January 1 of the calendar year.
(d) The report required under paragraph (b) of this section must be filed electronically on EDGAR and must be provided in an Interactive Data File in accordance with § 232.405 of this chapter (Rule 405 of Regulation S-T) and the EDGAR Filer Manual.
[88 FR 13953, Mar. 6, 2023]

# Capital, Margin and Segregation Requirements for Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major Security-Based Swap Participants
§ 240.18a-1
Net capital requirements for security-based swap dealers for which there is not a prudential regulator.
Sections 240.18a-1, 240.18a-1a, 240.18a-1b, 240.18a-1c, and 240.18a-1d apply to a security-based swap dealer registered under section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10), including a security-based swap
dealer that is an
OTC derivatives dealer
as that term is defined in § 240.3b-12. A security-based swap dealer registered under section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10) that is also a broker or dealer registered under section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o), other than an OTC derivatives dealer, is subject to the net capital requirements in § 240.15c3-1 and its appendices. A security-based swap dealer registered under section 15F of the Act that has a prudential regulator is not subject to § 240.18a-1, 240.18a-1a, 240.18a-1b, 240.18a-1c, and 240.18a-1d.
(a)
Minimum requirements.
Every registered security-based swap dealer must at all times have and maintain net capital no less than the greater of the highest minimum requirements applicable to its business under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, and tentative net capital no less than the minimum requirement under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1)(i) A security-based swap dealer must at all times maintain net capital of not less than the greater of $20 million or:
(A) Two percent of the risk margin amount; or
(B) Four percent or less of the risk margin amount if the Commission issues an order raising the requirement to four percent or less on or after the third anniversary of this section's compliance date; or
(C) Eight percent or less of the risk margin amount if the Commission issues an order raising the requirement to eight percent or less on or after the fifth anniversary of this section's compliance date and the Commission had previously issued an order raising the requirement under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section;
(ii) If, after considering the capital and leverage levels of security-based swap dealers subject to this paragraph (a)(1), as well as the risks of their security-based swap positions, the Commission determines that it may be appropriate to change the percentage pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) or (C) of this section, the Commission will publish a notice of the potential change and subsequently will issue an order regarding any such change.
(2) In accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, the Commission may approve, in whole or in part, an application or an amendment to an application by a security-based swap dealer to calculate net capital using the market risk standards of paragraph (d) to compute a deduction for market risk on some or all of its positions, instead of the provisions of paragraphs (c)(1)(iv), (vi), and (vii) of this section, and § 240.18a-1b, and using the credit risk standards of paragraph (d) to compute a deduction for credit risk on certain credit exposures arising from transactions in derivatives instruments, instead of the provisions of paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (c)(1)(ix)(A) and (B) of this section, subject to any conditions or limitations on the security-based swap dealer the Commission may require as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. A security-based swap dealer that has been approved to calculate its net capital under paragraph (d) of this section must at all times maintain tentative net capital of not less than $100 million and net capital of not less than the greater of $20 million or:
(i)(A) Two percent of the risk margin amount;
(B) Four percent or less of the risk margin amount if the Commission issues an order raising the requirement to four percent or less on or after the third anniversary of this section's compliance date; or
(C) Eight percent or less of the risk margin amount if the Commission issues an order raising the requirement to eight percent or less on or after the fifth anniversary of this section's compliance date and the Commission had previously issued an order raising the requirement under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section;
(ii) If, after considering the capital and leverage levels of security-based swap dealers subject to this paragraph (a)(2), as well as the risks of their security-based swap positions, the Commission determines that it may be appropriate to change the percentage pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) or (C) of this section, the Commission will publish a notice of the potential change and subsequently will issue an order regarding any such change; and
(b) A security-based swap dealer must at all times maintain net capital in addition to the amounts required under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable, in an amount equal to 10 percent of:
(1) The excess of the market value of United States Treasury Bills, Bonds and Notes subject to reverse repurchase agreements with any one party over 105 percent of the contract prices (including accrued interest) for reverse repurchase agreements with that party;
(2) The excess of the market value of securities issued or guaranteed as to principal or interest by an agency of the United States or mortgage related securities as defined in section 3(a)(41) of the Act subject to reverse repurchase agreements with any one party over 110 percent of the contract prices (including accrued interest) for reverse repurchase agreements with that party; and
(3) The excess of the market value of other securities subject to reverse repurchase agreements with any one party over 120 percent of the contract prices (including accrued interest) for reverse repurchase agreements with that party.
(c)
Definitions.
For purpose of this section:
(1)
Net capital.
The term
net capital
shall be deemed to mean the net worth of a security-based swap dealer, adjusted by:
(i)
Adjustments to net worth related to unrealized profit or loss and deferred tax provisions.
(A) Adding unrealized profits (or deducting unrealized losses) in the accounts of the security-based swap dealer;
(B)(
1
) In determining net worth, all long and all short positions in listed options shall be marked to their market value and all long and all short securities and commodities positions shall be marked to their market value.
(
2
) In determining net worth, the value attributed to any unlisted option shall be the difference between the option's exercise value and the market value of the underlying security. In the case of an unlisted call, if the market value of the underlying security is less than the exercise value of such call it shall be given no value and in the case of an unlisted put if the market value of the underlying security is more than the exercise value of the unlisted put it shall be given no value.
(C) Adding to net worth the lesser of any deferred income tax liability related to the items in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(C)(
1
) through (
3
) of this section, or the sum of paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(C)(
1
), (
2
), and (
3
) of this section;
(
1
) The aggregate amount resulting from applying to the amount of the deductions computed in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1)(vi) and (vii) of this section and Appendices A and B, §§ 240.18a-1a and 240.18a-1b, the appropriate Federal and State tax rate(s) applicable to any unrealized gain on the asset on which the deduction was computed;
(
2
) Any deferred tax liability related to income accrued which is directly related to an asset otherwise deducted pursuant to this section;
(
3
) Any deferred tax liability related to unrealized appreciation in value of any asset(s) which has been otherwise deducted from net worth in accordance with the provisions of this section; and
(D) Adding, in the case of future income tax benefits arising as a result of unrealized losses, the amount of such benefits not to exceed the amount of income tax liabilities accrued on the books and records of the security-based swap dealer, but only to the extent such benefits could have been applied to reduce accrued tax liabilities on the date of the capital computation, had the related unrealized losses been realized on that date.
(E) Adding to net worth any actual tax liability related to income accrued which is directly related to an asset otherwise deducted pursuant to this section.
(ii)
Subordinated liabilities.
Excluding liabilities of the security-based swap dealer that are subordinated to the claims of creditors pursuant to a satisfactory subordinated loan agreement, as defined in § 240.18a-1d.
(iii)
Assets not readily convertible into cash.
Deducting fixed assets and assets which cannot be readily converted into cash, including, among other things:
(A)
Fixed assets and prepaid items.
Real estate; furniture and fixtures; exchange memberships; prepaid rent, insurance and other expenses; goodwill; organization expenses;
(B)
Certain unsecured and partly secured receivables.
All unsecured advances and loans; deficits in customers' and non-customers' unsecured and partly secured notes; deficits in customers' and non-customers' unsecured and partly secured accounts after application of calls for margin, marks to the market or other required deposits that are outstanding for more than the required time frame to collect the margin, marks to the market, or other required deposits; and the market value of stock loaned in excess of the value of any collateral received therefore.
(C)
Insurance claims.
Insurance claims that, after seven (7) business days from the date the loss giving rise to the claim is discovered, are not covered by an opinion of outside counsel that the claim is valid and is covered by insurance policies presently in effect; insurance claims that after twenty (20) business days from the date the loss giving rise to the claim is discovered and that are accompanied by an opinion of outside counsel described above, have not been acknowledged in writing by the insurance carrier as due and payable; and insurance claims acknowledged in writing by the carrier as due and payable outstanding longer than twenty (20) business days from the date they are so acknowledged by the carrier; and
(D)
Other deductions.
All other unsecured receivables; all assets doubtful of collection less any reserves established therefore; the amount by which the market value of securities failed to receive outstanding longer than thirty (30) calendar days exceeds the contract value of such fails to receive, and the funds on deposit in a “segregated trust account” in accordance with 17 CFR 270.27d-1 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, but only to the extent that the amount on deposit in such segregated trust account exceeds the amount of liability reserves established and maintained for refunds of charges required by sections 27(d) and 27(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940;
Provided,
That any amount deposited in the “special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of the security-based swap customers” established pursuant to § 240.18a-4 and clearing deposits shall not be so deducted.
(E)
Repurchase agreements.
(
1
) For purposes of this paragraph:
(
i
) The term
reverse repurchase agreement deficit
shall mean the difference between the contract price for resale of the securities under a reverse repurchase agreement and the market value of those securities (if less than the contract price).
(
ii
) The term
repurchase agreement deficit
shall mean the difference between the market value of securities subject to the repurchase agreement and the contract price for repurchase of the securities (if less than the market value of the securities).
(
iii
) As used in this paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(E)(
1
), the term
contract price
shall include accrued interest.
(
iv
) Reverse repurchase agreement deficits and the repurchase agreement deficits where the counterparty is the Federal Reserve Bank of New York shall be disregarded.
(
2
)(
i
) In the case of a reverse repurchase agreement, the deduction shall be equal to the reverse repurchase agreement deficit.
(
ii
) In determining the required deductions under paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(E)(
2
)(
i
) of this section, the security-based swap dealer may reduce the reverse repurchase agreement deficit by: Any margin or other deposits held by the security-based swap dealer on account of the reverse repurchase agreement; any excess market value of the securities over the contract price for resale of those securities under any other reverse repurchase agreement with the same party; the difference between the contract price for resale and the market value of securities subject to repurchase agreements with the same party (if the market value of those securities is less than the contract price); and calls for margin, marks to the market, or other required deposits that are outstanding one business day or less.
(
3
) In the case of repurchase agreements, the deduction shall be:
(
i
) The excess of the repurchase agreement deficit over 5 percent of the
contract price for resale of United States Treasury Bills, Notes and Bonds, 10 percent of the contract price for the resale of securities issued or guaranteed as to principal or interest by an agency of the United States or mortgage related securities as defined in section 3(a)(41) of the Act and 20 percent of the contract price for the resale of other securities; and
(
ii
) The excess of the aggregate repurchase agreement deficits with any one party over 25 percent of the security-based swap dealer's net capital before the application of paragraphs (c)(1)(vi) and (vii) of this section (less any deduction taken with respect to repurchase agreements with that party under paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(E)(
3
)(
i
) of this section) or, if greater; the excess of the aggregate repurchase agreement deficits over 300 percent of the security-based swap dealer's net capital before the application of paragraphs (c)(1)(vi) and (vii) of this section.
(
iii
) In determining the required deduction under paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(E)(
3
)(
i
) and (
ii
) of this section, the security-based swap dealer may reduce a repurchase agreement by any margin or other deposits held by the security-based swap dealer on account of a reverse repurchase agreement with the same party to the extent not otherwise used to reduce a reverse repurchase agreement deficit; the difference between the contract price and the market value of securities subject to other repurchase agreements with the same party (if the market value of those securities is less than the contract price) not otherwise used to reduce a reverse repurchase agreement deficit; and calls for margin, marks to the market, or other required deposits that are outstanding one business day or less to the extent not otherwise used to reduce a reverse repurchase agreement deficit.
(F)
Securities borrowed.
One percent of the market value of securities borrowed collateralized by an irrevocable letter of credit.
(G)
Affiliate receivables and collateral.
Any receivable from an affiliate of the security-based swap dealer (not otherwise deducted from net worth) and the market value of any collateral given to an affiliate (not otherwise deducted from net worth) to secure a liability over the amount of the liability of the security-based swap dealer unless the books and records of the affiliate are made available for examination when requested by the representatives of the Commission in order to demonstrate the validity of the receivable or payable. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply where the affiliate is a registered security-based swap dealer, registered broker or dealer, registered government securities broker or dealer, bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act, insurance company as defined in section 3(a)(19) of the Act, investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, federally insured savings and loan association, or futures commission merchant or swap dealer registered pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act.
(iv)
Non-marketable securities.
Deducting 100 percent of the carrying value in the case of securities or evidence of indebtedness in the proprietary or other accounts of the security-based swap dealer, for which there is no ready market, as defined in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, and securities, in the proprietary or other accounts of the security-based swap dealer, that cannot be publicly offered or sold because of statutory, regulatory or contractual arrangements or other restrictions.
(v) Deducting from the contract value of each failed to deliver contract that is outstanding five business days or longer (21 business days or longer in the case of municipal securities) the percentages of the market value of the underlying security that would be required by application of the deduction required by paragraph (c)(1)(vii) of this section. Such deduction, however, shall be increased by any excess of the contract price of the failed to deliver contract over the market value of the underlying security or reduced by any excess of the market value of the underlying security over the contract value of the failed to deliver contract, but not to exceed the amount of such deduction. The Commission may, upon application of the security-based swap dealer, extend for a period up to 5 business days, any period herein specified when it is satisfied that the extension
is warranted. The Commission upon expiration of the extension may extend for one additional period of up to 5 business days, any period herein specified when it is satisfied that the extension is warranted.
(vi)(A)
Cleared security-based swaps.
In the case of a cleared security-based swap held in a proprietary account of the security-based swap dealer, deducting the amount of the applicable margin requirement of the clearing agency or, if the security-based swap references an equity security, the security-based swap dealer may take a deduction using the method specified in § 240.18a-1a.
(B)
Non-cleared security-based swaps
—(
1
)
Credit default swaps
—(
i
)
Short positions (selling protection).
In the case of a non-cleared security-based swap that is a short credit default swap, deducting the percentage of the notional amount based upon the current basis point spread of the credit default swap and the maturity of the credit default swap in accordance with table 1 to § 240.18a-1(c)(1)(vi)(B)(
1
)(
i
):
Table 1 to § 240.18a-1(c)(1)(vi)(B)(
1
)(
i
)
Length of time to maturity of credit default swap contract
Basis point spread
100 or less
(%)
101-300
(%)
301-400
(%)
401-500
(%)
501-699
(%)
700 or more
(%)
Less than 12 months
1.00
2.00
5.00
7.50
10.00
15.00
12 months but less than 24 months
1.50
3.50
7.50
10.00
12.50
17.50
24 months but less than 36 months
2.00
5.00
10.00
12.50
15.00
20.00
36 months but less than 48 months
3.00
6.00
12.50
15.00
17.50
22.50
48 months but less than 60 months
4.00
7.00
15.00
17.50
20.00
25.00
60 months but less than 72 months
5.50
8.50
17.50
20.00
22.50
27.50
72 months but less than 84 months
7.00
10.00
20.00
22.50
25.00
30.00
84 months but less than 120 months
8.50
15.00
22.50
25.00
27.50
40.00
120 months and longer
10.00
20.00
25.00
27.50
30.00
50.00
(
ii
)
Long positions (purchasing protection).
In the case of a non-cleared security-based swap that is a long credit default swap, deducting 50 percent of the deduction that would be required by paragraph (c)(1)(vi)(B)(
1
)(
i
) of this section if the non-cleared security-based swap was a short credit default swap, each such deduction not to exceed the current market value of the long position.
(
iii
)
Long and short credit default swaps.
In the case of non-cleared security-based swaps that are long and short credit default swaps referencing the same entity (in the case of non-cleared credit default swap security-based swaps referencing a corporate entity) or obligation (in the case of non-cleared credit default swap security-based swaps referencing an asset-backed security), that have the same credit events which would trigger payment by the seller of protection, that have the same basket of obligations which would determine the amount of payment by the seller of protection upon the occurrence of a credit event, that are in the same or adjacent spread category, and that are in the same or adjacent maturity category and have a maturity date within three months of the other maturity category, deducting the percentage of the notional amount specified in the higher maturity category under paragraph (c)(1)(vi)(B)(
1
)(
i
) or (
ii
) on the excess of the long or short position. In the case of non-cleared security-based swaps that are long and short credit default swaps referencing corporate entities in the same industry sector and the same spread and maturity categories prescribed in paragraph (c)(1)(vi)(B)(
1
)(
i
) of this section, deducting 50 percent of the amount required by paragraph (c)(1)(vi)(B)(
1
)(
i
) of this section on the short position plus the deduction required by paragraph
(c)(1)(vi)(B)(
1
)(
ii
) of this section on the excess long position, if any. For the purposes of this section, the security-based swap dealer must use an industry sector classification system that is reasonable in terms of grouping types of companies with similar business activities and risk characteristics and the security-based swap dealer must document the industry sector classification system used pursuant to this section.
(
iv
)
Long security and long credit default swap.
In the case of a non-cleared security-based swap that is a long credit default swap referencing a debt security and the security-based swap dealer is long the same debt security, deducting 50 percent of the amount specified in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) or (vii) for the debt security, provided that the security-based swap dealer can deliver the debt security to satisfy the obligation of the security-based swap dealer on the credit default swap.
(
v
)
Short security and short credit default swap.
In the case of a non-cleared security-based swap that is a short credit default swap referencing a debt security or a corporate entity, and the security-based swap dealer is short the debt security or a debt security issued by the corporate entity, deducting the amount specified in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) or (vii) for the debt security. In the case of a non-cleared security-based swap that is a short credit default swap referencing an asset-backed security and the security-based swap dealer is short the asset-backed security, deducting the amount specified in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) or (vii) for the asset-backed security.
(
2
)
All other security-based swaps.
In the case of a non-cleared security-based swap that is not a credit default swap, deducting the amount calculated by multiplying the notional amount of the security-based swap and the percentage specified in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) applicable to the reference security. A security-based swap dealer may reduce the deduction under this paragraph (c)(1)(vi)(B)(
2
) by an amount equal to any reduction recognized for a comparable long or short position in the reference security under § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) and, in the case of a security-based swap referencing an equity security, the method specified in § 240.18a-1a.
(vii)
All other securities, money market instruments or options.
Deducting the percentages specified in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) of the market value of all securities, money market instruments, and options in the proprietary accounts of the security-based swap dealer.
(viii)
Deduction from net worth for certain undermargined accounts.
Deducting the amount of cash required in the account of each security-based swap and swap customer to meet the margin requirements of a clearing agency, the Commission, derivatives clearing organization, or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, as applicable, after application of calls for margin, marks to the market, or other required deposits which are outstanding within the required time frame to collect the margin, mark to the market, or other required deposits.
(ix)
Deduction from net worth in lieu of collecting collateral for non-cleared security-based swap and swap transactions
—(A)
Security-based swaps.
Deducting the initial margin amount calculated pursuant to § 240.18a-3(c)(1)(i)(B) for the account of a counterparty at the security-based swap dealer that is subject to a margin exception set forth in § 240.18a-3(c)(1)(iii), less the margin value of collateral held in the account.
(B)
Swaps.
Deducting the initial margin amount calculated pursuant to the margin rules of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in the account of a counterparty at the security-based swap dealer that is subject to a margin exception in those rules, less the margin value of collateral held in the account.
(C)
Treatment of collateral held at a third-party custodian.
For the purposes of the deductions required pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1)(ix)(A) and (B) of this section, collateral held by an independent third-party custodian as initial margin may be treated as collateral held in the account of the counterparty at the security-based swap dealer if:
(
1
) The independent third-party custodian is a bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act or a registered U.S. clearing organization or depository
that is not affiliated with the counterparty or, if the collateral consists of foreign securities or currencies, a supervised foreign bank, clearing organization, or depository that is not affiliated with the counterparty and that customarily maintains custody of such foreign securities or currencies;
(
2
) The security-based swap dealer, the independent third-party custodian, and the counterparty that delivered the collateral to the custodian have executed an account control agreement governing the terms under which the custodian holds and releases collateral pledged by the counterparty as initial margin that is a legal, valid, binding, and enforceable agreement under the laws of all relevant jurisdictions, including in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or a similar proceeding of any of the parties to the agreement, and that provides the security-based swap dealer with the right to access the collateral to satisfy the counterparty's obligations to the security-based swap dealer arising from transactions in the account of the counterparty; and
(
3
) The security-based swap dealer maintains written documentation of its analysis that in the event of a legal challenge the relevant court or administrative authorities would find the account control agreement to be legal, valid, binding, and enforceable under the applicable law, including in the event of the receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or a similar proceeding of any of the parties to the agreement.
(x)(A) Deducting the market value of all short securities differences (which shall include securities positions reflected on the securities record which are not susceptible to either count or confirmation) unresolved after discovery in accordance with the schedule in table 2 to § 240.18a-1(c)(1)(x)(A):
Table 2 to § 240.18a-1(
c
)(1)(
x
)(A)
Differences
1
Number of business days after discovery
25 percent
7
50 percent
14
75 percent
21
100 percent
28
1
Percentage of market value of short securities differences.
(B) Deducting the market value of any long securities differences, where such securities have been sold by the security-based swap dealer before they are adequately resolved, less any reserves established therefor;
(C) The Commission may extend the periods in paragraph (c)(1)(x)(A) of this section for up to 10 business days if it finds that exceptional circumstances warrant an extension.
(2) The term
exempted securities
shall mean those securities deemed exempted securities by section 3(a)(12) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(12)) and the rules thereunder.
(3)
Customer.
The term
customer
shall mean any person from whom, or on whose behalf, a security-based swap dealer has received, acquired or holds funds or securities for the account of such person, but shall not include a security-based swap dealer, a broker or dealer, a registered municipal securities dealer, or a general, special or limited partner or director or officer of the security-based swap dealer, or any person to the extent that such person has a claim for property or funds which by contract, agreement, or understanding, or by operation of law, is part of the capital of the security-based swap dealer.
(4)
Ready market.
The term
ready market
shall include a recognized established securities market in which there exist independent bona fide offers to buy and sell so that a price reasonably related to the last sales price or current bona fide competitive bid and offer quotations can be determined for a particular security almost instantaneously and where payment will be received in settlement of a sale at such price within a relatively short time conforming to trade custom.
(5) The term
tentative net capital
means the net capital of the security-based swap dealer before deducting the haircuts computed pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1)(vi) and (vii) of this section and the charges on inventory computed pursuant to § 240.18a-1b. However, for purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the term
tentative net capital
means the net capital of the security-based swap dealer before deductions for market and credit risk computed pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section
or paragraphs (c)(1)(vi) and (vii) of this section, if applicable, and increased by the balance sheet value (including counterparty net exposure) resulting from transactions in derivative instruments which would otherwise be deducted pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section. Tentative net capital shall include securities for which there is no ready market, as defined in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, if the use of mathematical models has been approved for purposes of calculating deductions from net capital for those securities pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(6) The term
risk margin amount
means the sum of:
(i) The total initial margin required to be maintained by the security-based swap dealer at each clearing agency with respect to security-based swap transactions cleared for security-based swap customers; and
(ii) The total initial margin amount calculated by the security-based swap dealer with respect to non-cleared security-based swaps pursuant to § 240.18a-3(c)(1)(i)(B).
(d)
Application to use models to compute deductions for market and credit risk.
(1) A security-based swap dealer may apply to the Commission for authorization to compute deductions for market risk under this paragraph (d) in lieu of computing deductions pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1)(iv), (vi), and (vii) of this section, and § 240.18a-1b, and to compute deductions for credit risk pursuant to this paragraph (d) on credit exposures arising from transactions in derivatives instruments (if this paragraph (d) is used to calculate deductions for market risk on these instruments) in lieu of computing deductions pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (c)(1)(ix)(A) and (B) of this section:
(i) A security-based swap dealer shall submit the following information to the Commission with its application:
(A) An executive summary of the information provided to the Commission with its application and an identification of the ultimate holding company of the security-based swap dealer;
(B) A comprehensive description of the internal risk management control system of the security-based swap dealer and how that system satisfies the requirements set forth in § 240.15c3-4;
(C) A list of the categories of positions that the security-based swap dealer holds in its proprietary accounts and a brief description of the methods that the security-based swap dealer will use to calculate deductions for market and credit risk on those categories of positions;
(D) A description of the mathematical models to be used to price positions and to compute deductions for market risk, including those portions of the deductions attributable to specific risk, if applicable, and deductions for credit risk; a description of the creation, use, and maintenance of the mathematical models; a description of the security-based swap dealer's internal risk management controls over those models, including a description of each category of persons who may input data into the models; if a mathematical model incorporates empirical correlations across risk categories, a description of the process for measuring correlations; a description of the backtesting procedures the security-based swap dealer will use to backtest the mathematical models used to calculate maximum potential exposure; a description of how each mathematical model satisfies the applicable qualitative and quantitative requirements set forth in this paragraph (d); and a statement describing the extent to which each mathematical model used to compute deductions for market risk and credit risk will be used as part of the risk analyses and reports presented to senior management;
(E) If the security-based swap dealer is applying to the Commission for approval to use scenario analysis to calculate deductions for market risk for certain positions, a list of those types of positions, a description of how those deductions will be calculated using scenario analysis, and an explanation of why each scenario analysis is appropriate to calculate deductions for market risk on those types of positions;
(F) A description of how the security-based swap dealer will calculate current exposure;
(G) A description of how the security-based swap dealer will determine internal credit ratings of counterparties and
internal credit risk weights of counterparties, if applicable;
(H) For each instance in which a mathematical model to be used by the security-based swap dealer to calculate a deduction for market risk or to calculate maximum potential exposure for a particular product or counterparty differs from the mathematical model used by the ultimate holding company to calculate an allowance for market risk or to calculate maximum potential exposure for that same product or counterparty, a description of the difference(s) between the mathematical models; and
(I) Sample risk reports that are provided to management at the security-based swap dealer who are responsible for managing the security-based swap dealer's risk.
(ii) [Reserved].
(2) The application of the security-based swap dealer shall be supplemented by other information relating to the internal risk management control system, mathematical models, and financial position of the security-based swap dealer that the Commission may request to complete its review of the application;
(3) The application shall be considered filed when received at the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC. A person who files an application pursuant to this section for which it seeks confidential treatment may clearly mark each page or segregable portion of each page with the words “Confidential Treatment Requested.” All information submitted in connection with the application will be accorded confidential treatment, to the extent permitted by law;
(4) If any of the information filed with the Commission as part of the application of the security-based swap dealer is found to be or becomes inaccurate before the Commission approves the application, the security-based swap dealer must notify the Commission promptly and provide the Commission with a description of the circumstances in which the information was found to be or has become inaccurate along with updated, accurate information;
(5)(i) The Commission may approve the application or an amendment to the application, in whole or in part, subject to any conditions or limitations the Commission may require if the Commission finds the approval to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, after determining, among other things, whether the security-based swap dealer has met the requirements of this paragraph (d) and is in compliance with other applicable rules promulgated under the Act;
(ii) The Commission may approve the temporary use of a provisional model in whole or in part, subject to any conditions or limitations the Commission may require, if:
(A) The security-based swap dealer has a complete application pending under this section;
(B) The use of the provisional model has been approved by:
(
1
) A prudential regulator;
(
2
) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission or a futures association registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act;
(
3
) A foreign financial regulatory authority that administers a foreign financial regulatory system with capital requirements that the Commission has found are eligible for substituted compliance under § 240.3a71-6 if the provisional model is used for the purposes of calculating net capital;
(
4
) A foreign financial regulatory authority that administers a foreign financial regulatory system with margin requirements that the Commission has found are eligible for substituted compliance under § 240.3a71-6 if the provisional model is used for the purposes of calculating initial margin pursuant to § 240.18a-3; or
(
5
) Any other foreign supervisory authority that the Commission finds has approved and monitored the use of the provisional model through a process comparable to the process set forth in this section.
(6) A security-based swap dealer shall amend its application to calculate certain deductions for market and credit risk under this paragraph (d) and submit the amendment to the Commission for approval before it may change materially a mathematical model used to
calculate market or credit risk or before it may change materially its internal risk management control system;
(7) As a condition for the security-based swap dealer to compute deductions for market and credit risk under this paragraph (d), the security-based swap dealer agrees that:
(i) It will notify the Commission 45 days before it ceases to compute deductions for market and credit risk under this paragraph (d); and
(ii) The Commission may determine by order that the notice will become effective after a shorter or longer period of time if the security-based swap dealer consents or if the Commission determines that a shorter or longer period of time is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors; and
(8) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(7) of this section, the Commission, by order, may revoke a security-based swap dealer's exemption that allows it to use the market risk standards of this paragraph (d) to calculate deductions for market risk, and the exemption to use the credit risk standards of this paragraph (d) to calculate deductions for credit risk on certain credit exposures arising from transactions in derivatives instruments if the Commission finds that such exemption is no longer necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. In making its finding, the Commission will consider the compliance history of the security-based swap dealer related to its use of models, the financial and operational strength of the security-based swap dealer and its ultimate holding company, and the security-based swap dealer's compliance with its internal risk management controls.
(9) To be approved, each value-at-risk (“VaR”) model must meet the following minimum qualitative and quantitative requirements:
(i)
Qualitative requirements.
(A) The VaR model used to calculate market or credit risk for a position must be integrated into the daily internal risk management system of the security-based swap dealer;
(B) The VaR model must be reviewed both periodically and annually. The periodic review may be conducted by the security-based swap dealer's internal audit staff, but the annual review must be conducted by a registered public accounting firm, as that term is defined in section 2(a)(12) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7201
et seq.
); and
(C) For purposes of computing market risk, the security-based swap dealer must determine the appropriate multiplication factor as follows:
(
1
) Beginning three months after the security-based swap dealer begins using the VaR model to calculate market risk, the security-based swap dealer must conduct backtesting of the model by comparing its actual daily net trading profit or loss with the corresponding VaR measure generated by the VaR model, using a 99 percent, one-tailed confidence level with price changes equivalent to a one business-day movement in rates and prices, for each of the past 250 business days, or other period as may be appropriate for the first year of its use;
(
2
) On the last business day of each quarter, the security-based swap dealer must identify the number of backtesting exceptions of the VaR model, that is, the number of business days in the past 250 business days, or other period as may be appropriate for the first year of its use, for which the actual net trading loss, if any, exceeds the corresponding VaR measure; and
(
3
) The security-based swap dealer must use the multiplication factor indicated in table 3 to § 240.18a-1(d)(9)(i)(C)(
3
) in determining its market risk until it obtains the next quarter's backtesting results;
Table 3 to § 240.18
a
-1(
d
)(9)(
i
)(C)(
3
)—Multiplication Factor Based on the Number of Backtesting Exceptions of the V
a
R model
Number of exceptions
Multiplication factor
4 or fewer
3.00
5
3.40
6
3.50
7
3.65
8
3.75
9
3.85
10 or more
4.00
(
4
) For purposes of incorporating specific risk into a VaR model, a security-based swap dealer must demonstrate
that it has methodologies in place to capture liquidity, event, and default risk adequately for each position. Furthermore, the models used to calculate deductions for specific risk must:
(
i
) Explain the historical price variation in the portfolio;
(
ii
) Capture concentration (magnitude and changes in composition);
(
iii
) Be robust to an adverse environment;
(
iv
) Capture name-related basis risk;
(
v
) Capture event risk; and
(
vi
) Be validated through backtesting.
(
5
) For purposes of computing the credit equivalent amount of the security-based swap dealer's exposures to a counterparty, the security-based swap dealer must determine the appropriate multiplication factor as follows:
(
i
) Beginning three months after it begins using the VaR model to calculate maximum potential exposure, the security-based swap dealer must conduct backtesting of the model by comparing, for at least 80 counterparties with widely varying types and sizes of positions with the firm, the ten-business day change in its current exposure to the counterparty based on its positions held at the beginning of the ten-business day period with the corresponding ten-business day maximum potential exposure for the counterparty generated by the VaR model;
(
ii
) As of the last business day of each quarter, the security-based swap dealer must identify the number of backtesting exceptions of the VaR model, that is, the number of ten-business day periods in the past 250 business days, or other period as may be appropriate for the first year of its use, for which the change in current exposure to a counterparty exceeds the corresponding maximum potential exposure; and
(
iii
) The security-based swap dealer will propose, as part of its application, a schedule of multiplication factors, which must be approved by the Commission based on the number of backtesting exceptions of the VaR model. The security-based swap dealer must use the multiplication factor indicated in the approved schedule in determining the credit equivalent amount of its exposures to a counterparty until it obtains the next quarter's backtesting results, unless the Commission determines, based on, among other relevant factors, a review of the security-based swap dealer's internal risk management control system, including a review of the VaR model, that a different adjustment or other action is appropriate.
(ii)
Quantitative requirements.
(A) For purposes of determining market risk, the VaR model must use a 99 percent, one-tailed confidence level with price changes equivalent to a ten business-day movement in rates and prices;
(B) For purposes of determining maximum potential exposure, the VaR model must use a 99 percent, one-tailed confidence level with price changes equivalent to a one-year movement in rates and prices; or based on a review of the security-based swap dealer's procedures for managing collateral and if the collateral is marked to market daily and the security-based swap dealer has the ability to call for additional collateral daily, the Commission may approve a time horizon of not less than ten business days;
(C) The VaR model must use an effective historical observation period of at least one year. The security-based swap dealer must consider the effects of market stress in its construction of the model. Historical data sets must be updated at least monthly and reassessed whenever market prices or volatilities change significantly; and
(D) The VaR model must take into account and incorporate all significant, identifiable market risk factors applicable to positions in the accounts of the security-based swap dealer, including:
(
1
) Risks arising from the non-linear price characteristics of derivatives and the sensitivity of the market value of those positions to changes in the volatility of the derivatives' underlying rates and prices;
(
2
) Empirical correlations with and across risk factors or, alternatively, risk factors sufficient to cover all the market risk inherent in the positions in the proprietary or other trading accounts of the security-based swap dealer, including interest rate risk, equity
price risk, foreign exchange risk, and commodity price risk;
(
3
) Spread risk, where applicable, and segments of the yield curve sufficient to capture differences in volatility and imperfect correlation of rates along the yield curve for securities and derivatives that are sensitive to different interest rates; and
(
4
) Specific risk for individual positions:
(iii)
Additional conditions.
As a condition for the security-based swap dealer to use this paragraph (d) to calculate certain of its capital charges, the Commission may impose additional conditions on the security-based swap dealer, which may include, but are not limited to restricting the security-based swap dealer's business on a product-specific, category-specific, or general basis; submitting to the Commission a plan to increase the security-based swap dealer's net capital or tentative net capital; filing more frequent reports with the Commission; modifying the security-based swap dealer's internal risk management control procedures; or computing the security-based swap dealer's deductions for market and credit risk in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1)(iii), (iv), (vi), (vii), and (c)(1)(ix)(A) and (B), as appropriate, and § 240.18a-1b, as appropriate. If the Commission finds it is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, the Commission may impose additional conditions on the security-based swap dealer, if:
(A) The security-based swap dealer fails to meet the reporting requirements set forth in § 240.18a-7;
(B) Any event specified in § 240.18a-8 occurs;
(C) There is a material deficiency in the internal risk management control system or in the mathematical models used to price securities or to calculate deductions for market and credit risk or allowances for market and credit risk, as applicable, of the security-based swap dealer;
(D) The security-based swap dealer fails to comply with this paragraph (d); or
(E) The Commission finds that imposition of other conditions is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(e)
Models to compute deductions for market risk and credit risk
—(1)
Market risk.
A security-based swap dealer whose application, including amendments, has been approved under paragraph (d) of this section, shall compute a deduction for market risk in an amount equal to the sum of the following:
(i) For positions for which the Commission has approved the security-based swap dealer's use of VaR models, the VaR of the positions multiplied by the appropriate multiplication factor determined according to paragraph (d) of this section, except that the initial multiplication factor shall be three, unless the Commission determines, based on a review of the security-based swap dealer's application or an amendment to the application under paragraph (d) of this section, including a review of its internal risk management control system and practices and VaR models, that another multiplication factor is appropriate;
(ii) For positions for which the VaR model does not incorporate specific risk, a deduction for specific risk to be determined by the Commission based on a review of the security-based swap dealer's application or an amendment to the application under paragraph (d) of this section and the positions involved;
(iii) For positions for which the Commission has approved the security-based swap dealer's application to use scenario analysis, the greatest loss resulting from a range of adverse movements in relevant risk factors, prices, or spreads designed to represent a negative movement greater than, or equal to, the worst ten-day movement of the four years preceding calculation of the greatest loss, or some multiple of the greatest loss based on the liquidity of the positions subject to scenario analysis. If historical data is insufficient, the deduction shall be the largest loss within a three standard deviation movement in those risk factors, prices, or spreads over a ten-day period, multiplied by an appropriate liquidity adjustment factor. Irrespective of the deduction otherwise indicated under scenario analysis, the resulting deduction
for market risk must be at least $25 per 100 share equivalent contract for equity positions, or one-half of one percent of the face value of the contract for all other types of contracts, even if the scenario analysis indicates a lower amount. A qualifying scenario must include the following:
(A) A set of pricing equations for the positions based on, for example, arbitrage relations, statistical analysis, historic relationships, merger evaluations, or fundamental valuation of an offering of securities;
(B) Auxiliary relationships mapping risk factors to prices; and
(C) Data demonstrating the effectiveness of the scenario in capturing market risk, including specific risk; and
(iv) For all remaining positions, the deductions specified in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi), § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vii), and applicable appendices to § 240.15c3-1.
(2)
Credit risk.
A security-based swap dealer whose application, including amendments, has been approved under paragraph (d) of this section may compute a deduction for credit risk on transactions in derivatives instruments (if this paragraph (e) is used to calculate a deduction for market risk on those positions) in an amount equal to the sum of the following:
(i)
Counterparty exposure charge.
A counterparty exposure charge in an amount equal to the sum of the following:
(A) The net replacement value in the account of each counterparty that is insolvent, or in bankruptcy, or that has senior unsecured long-term debt in default; and
(B) For a counterparty not otherwise described in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the
credit equivalent amount
of the security-based swap dealer's exposure to the counterparty, as defined in paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, multiplied by the credit risk weight of the counterparty, as determined in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(F) of this section, multiplied by eight percent; and
(ii)
Counterparty concentration charge.
A concentration charge by counterparty in an amount equal to the sum of the following:
(A) For each counterparty with a credit risk weight of 20 percent or less, 5 percent of the amount of the current exposure to the counterparty in excess of 5 percent of the tentative net capital of the security-based swap dealer;
(B) For each counterparty with a credit risk weight of greater than 20 percent but less than 50 percent, 20 percent of the amount of the current exposure to the counterparty in excess of 5 percent of the tentative net capital of the security-based swap dealer; and
(C) For each counterparty with a credit risk weight of greater than 50 percent, 50 percent of the amount of the current exposure to the counterparty in excess of 5 percent of the tentative net capital of the security-based swap dealer;
(iii)
Terms.
(A) The
credit equivalent amount
of the security-based swap dealer's exposure to a counterparty is the sum of the security-based swap dealer's
maximum potential exposure
to the counterparty, as defined in paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, multiplied by the appropriate multiplication factor, and the security-based swap dealer's
current exposure
to the counterparty, as defined in paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(C) of this section. The security-based swap dealer must use the multiplication factor determined according to paragraph (d)(9)(i)(C)(
5
) of this section, except that the initial multiplication factor shall be one, unless the Commission determines, based on a review of the security-based swap dealer's application or an amendment to the application approved under paragraph (d) of this section, including a review of its internal risk management control system and practices and VaR models, that another multiplication factor is appropriate;
(B) The
maximum potential exposure
is the VaR of the counterparty's positions with the security-based swap dealer, after applying netting agreements with the counterparty meeting the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(D) of this section, taking into account the value of collateral from the counterparty held by the security-based swap dealer in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(E) of this section, and taking into account the current replacement value of the counterparty's positions with the security-based swap dealer;
(C) The
current exposure
of the security-based swap dealer to a counterparty is the current replacement value of the counterparty's positions with the security-based swap dealer, after applying netting agreements with the counterparty meeting the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(D) of this section and taking into account the value of collateral from the counterparty held by the security-based swap dealer in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(E) of this section;
(D)
Netting agreements.
A security-based swap dealer may include the effect of a netting agreement that allows the security-based swap dealer to net gross receivables from and gross payables to a counterparty upon default of the counterparty if:
(
1
) The netting agreement is legally enforceable in each relevant jurisdiction, including in insolvency proceedings;
(
2
) The gross receivables and gross payables that are subject to the netting agreement with a counterparty can be determined at any time; and
(
3
) For internal risk management purposes, the security-based swap dealer monitors and controls its exposure to the counterparty on a net basis;
(E)
Collateral.
When calculating maximum potential exposure and current exposure to a counterparty, the fair market value of collateral pledged and held may be taken into account provided:
(
1
) The collateral is marked to market each day and is subject to a daily margin maintenance requirement;
(
2
)(
i
) The collateral is subject to the security-based swap dealer's physical possession or control and may be liquidated promptly by the firm without intervention by any other party; or
(
ii
) The collateral is held by an independent third-party custodian that is a bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act or a registered U.S. clearing organization or depository that is not affiliated with the counterparty or, if the collateral consists of foreign securities or currencies, a supervised foreign bank, clearing organization, or depository that is not affiliated with the counterparty and that customarily maintains custody of such foreign securities or currencies;
(
3
) The collateral is liquid and transferable;
(
4
) The collateral agreement is legally enforceable by the security-based swap dealer against the counterparty and any other parties to the agreement;
(
5
) The collateral does not consist of securities issued by the counterparty or a party related to the security-based swap dealer or to the counterparty;
(
6
) The Commission has approved the security-based swap dealer's use of a VaR model to calculate deductions for market risk for the type of collateral in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section; and
(
7
) The collateral is not used in determining the credit rating of the counterparty;
(F)
Credit risk weights of counterparties.
A security-based swap dealer that computes its deductions for credit risk pursuant to this paragraph (e)(2) shall apply a credit risk weight for transactions with a counterparty of either 20 percent, 50 percent, or 150 percent based on an internal credit rating the security-based swap dealer determines for the counterparty.
(
1
) As part of its initial application or in an amendment, the security-based swap dealer may request Commission approval to apply a credit risk weight of either 20 percent, 50 percent, or 150 percent based on internal calculations of credit ratings, including internal estimates of the maturity adjustment. Based on the strength of the security-based swap dealer's internal credit risk management system, the Commission may approve the application. The security-based swap dealer must make and keep current a record of the basis for the credit risk weight of each counterparty;
(
2
) As part of its initial application or in an amendment, the security-based swap dealer may request Commission approval to determine credit risk weights based on internal calculations, including internal estimates of the maturity adjustment. Based on the strength of the security-based swap dealer's internal credit risk management system, the Commission may approve the application. The security-
based swap dealer must make and keep current a record of the basis for the credit risk weight of each counterparty; and
(
3
) As part of its initial application or in an amendment, the security-based swap dealer may request Commission approval to reduce deductions for credit risk through the use of credit derivatives.
(f)
Internal risk management control systems.
A security-based swap dealer must comply with § 240.15c3-4 as if it were an OTC derivatives dealer with respect to all of its business activities, except that § 240.15c3-4(c)(5)(xiii) and (xiv) and (d)(8) and (9) shall not apply.
(g)
Debt-equity requirements.
No security-based swap dealer shall permit the total of outstanding principal amounts of its satisfactory subordination agreements (other than such agreements which qualify under this paragraph (g) as equity capital) to exceed 70 percent of its debt-equity total, as hereinafter defined, for a period in excess of 90 days or for such longer period which the Commission may, upon application of the security-based swap dealer, grant in the public interest or for the protection of investors. In the case of a corporation, the debt-equity total shall be the sum of its outstanding principal amounts of satisfactory subordination agreements, par or stated value of capital stock, paid in capital in excess of par, retained earnings, unrealized profit and loss or other capital accounts. In the case of a partnership, the debt-equity total shall be the sum of its outstanding principal amounts of satisfactory subordination agreements, capital accounts of partners (exclusive of such partners' securities accounts) subject to the provisions of paragraph (h) of this section, and unrealized profit and loss.
Provided, however,
that a satisfactory subordinated loan agreement entered into by a partner or stockholder which has an initial term of at least three years and has a remaining term of not less than 12 months shall be considered equity for the purposes of this paragraph (g) if:
(1) It does not have any of the provisions for accelerated maturity provided for by paragraph (b)(8)(i) or (b)(9)(i) or (ii) of § 240.18a-1d and is maintained as capital subject to the provisions restricting the withdrawal thereof required by paragraph (h) of this section; or
(2) The partnership agreement provides that capital contributed pursuant to a satisfactory subordination agreement as defined in § 240.18a-1d shall in all respects be partnership capital subject to the provisions restricting the withdrawal thereof required by paragraph (h) of this section.
(h)
Provisions relating to the withdrawal of equity capital
—(1)
Notice provisions relating to limitations on the withdrawal of equity capital.
No equity capital of the security-based swap dealer or a subsidiary or affiliate consolidated pursuant to § 240.18a-1c may be withdrawn by action of a stockholder or a partner or by redemption or repurchase of shares of stock by any of the consolidated entities or through the payment of dividends or any similar distribution, nor may any unsecured advance or loan be made to a stockholder, partner, employee or affiliate without written notice given in accordance with paragraph (h)(1)(iv) of this section:
(i) Two business days prior to any withdrawals, advances or loans if those withdrawals, advances or loans on a net basis exceed in the aggregate in any 30 calendar day period, 30 percent of the security-based swap dealer's excess net capital. A security-based swap dealer, in an emergency situation, may make withdrawals, advances or loans that on a net basis exceed 30 percent of the security-based swap dealer's excess net capital in any 30 calendar day period without giving the advance notice required by this paragraph, with the prior approval of the Commission. Where a security-based swap dealer makes a withdrawal with the consent of the Commission, it shall in any event comply with paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section; or
(ii) Two business days after any withdrawals, advances or loans if those withdrawals, advances or loans on a net basis exceed in the aggregate in any 30 calendar day period, 20 percent of the security-based swap dealer's excess net capital.
(iii) This paragraph (h)(1) does not apply to:
(A) Securities or commodities transactions in the ordinary course of business between a security-based swap dealer and an affiliate where the security-based swap dealer makes payment to or on behalf of such affiliate for such transaction and then receives payment from such affiliate for the securities or commodities transaction within two business days from the date of the transaction; or
(B) Withdrawals, advances or loans which in the aggregate in any thirty calendar day period, on a net basis, equal $500,000 or less.
(iv) Each required notice shall be effective when received by the Commission in Washington, DC, the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the security-based swap dealer has its principal place of business, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission if such security-based swap dealer is registered with that Commission.
(2)
Limitations on withdrawal of equity capital.
No equity capital of the security-based swap dealer or a subsidiary or affiliate consolidated pursuant to § 240.18a-1c may be withdrawn by action of a stockholder or a partner or by redemption or repurchase of shares of stock by any of the consolidated entities or through the payment of dividends or any similar distribution, nor may any unsecured advance or loan be made to a stockholder, partner, employee or affiliate, if after giving effect thereto and to any other such withdrawals, advances or loans and any Payments of Payments Obligations (as defined in § 240.18a-1d) under satisfactory subordinated loan agreements which are scheduled to occur within 180 days following such withdrawal, advance or loan if:
(i) The security-based swap dealer's net capital would be less than 120 percent of the minimum dollar amount required by paragraph (a) of this section; or
(ii) The total outstanding principal amounts of satisfactory subordinated loan agreements of the security-based swap dealer and any subsidiaries or affiliates consolidated pursuant to § 240.18a-1c (other than such agreements which qualify as equity under paragraph (g) of this section) would exceed 70 percent of the debt-equity total as defined in paragraph (g) of this section.
(3)
Temporary restrictions on withdrawal of net capital.
(i) The Commission may by order restrict, for a period up to twenty business days, any withdrawal by the security-based swap dealer of equity capital or unsecured loan or advance to a stockholder, partner, member, employee or affiliate under such terms and conditions as the Commission deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or consistent with the protection of investors if the Commission, based on the information available, concludes that such withdrawal, advance or loan may be detrimental to the financial integrity of the security-based swap dealer, or may unduly jeopardize the security-based swap dealer's ability to repay its customer claims or other liabilities which may cause a significant impact on the markets or expose the customers or creditors of the security-based swap dealer to loss.
(ii) An order temporarily prohibiting the withdrawal of capital shall be rescinded if the Commission determines that the restriction on capital withdrawal should not remain in effect. A hearing on an order temporarily prohibiting withdrawal of capital will be held within two business days from the date of the request in writing by the security-based swap dealer.
(4)
Miscellaneous provisions.
(i) Excess net capital is that amount in excess of the amount required under paragraph (a) of this section. For the purposes of paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section, a security-based swap dealer may use the amount of excess net capital and deductions required under paragraphs (c)(1)(vi) and (vii) and § 240.18a-1a reported in its most recently required filed Part II of Form X-17A-5 for the purposes of calculating the effect of a projected withdrawal, advance or loan relative to excess net capital or deductions. The security-based swap dealer must assure itself that the excess net capital or the deductions reported on the most recently required filed Part II of Form X-17A-5 have not materially changed since the time such report was filed.
(ii) The term equity capital includes capital contributions by partners, par or stated value of capital stock, paid-in capital in excess of par, retained earnings or other capital accounts. The term equity capital does not include securities in the securities accounts of partners and balances in limited partners' capital accounts in excess of their stated capital contributions.
(iii) Paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section shall not preclude a security-based swap dealer from making required tax payments or preclude the payment to partners of reasonable compensation, and such payments shall not be included in the calculation of withdrawals, advances, or loans for purposes of paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.
(iv) For the purpose of this paragraph (h), any transactions between a security-based swap dealer and a stockholder, partner, employee or affiliate that results in a diminution of the security-based swap dealer's net capital shall be deemed to be an advance or loan of net capital.
[84 FR 44052, Aug. 22, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 68656, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 240.18a-1a
Options.
(a)(1)
Definitions.
The term
unlisted option
means any option not included in the definition of listed option provided in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(x).
(2) The term
option series
refers to listed option contracts of the same type (either a call or a put) and exercise style, covering the same underlying security with the same exercise price, expiration date, and number of underlying units.
(3) The term
related instrument
within an option class or product group refers to futures contracts, options on futures contracts, security-based swaps on a narrow-based security index, and swaps covering the same underlying instrument. In relation to options on foreign currencies, a related instrument within an option class also shall include forward contracts on the same underlying currency.
(4) The term
underlying instrument
refers to long and short positions, as appropriate, covering the same foreign currency, the same security, security future, or security-based swap other than a security-based swap on a narrow-based security index, or a security which is exchangeable for or convertible into the underlying security within a period of 90 days. If the exchange or conversion requires the payment of money or results in a loss upon conversion at the time when the security is deemed an underlying instrument for purposes of this Appendix A, the broker or dealer will deduct from net worth the full amount of the conversion loss. The term
underlying instrument
shall not be deemed to include securities options, futures contracts, options on futures contracts, security-based swaps on a narrow-based security index, qualified stock baskets, unlisted instruments, or swaps.
(5) The term
options class
refers to all options contracts covering the same underlying instrument.
(6) The term
product group
refers to two or more option classes, related instruments, underlying instruments, and qualified stock baskets in the same portfolio type (see paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section) for which it has been determined that a percentage of offsetting profits may be applied to losses at the same valuation point.
(b) The deduction under this Appendix A must equal the sum of the deductions specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(C) of this section.
(1)(i)
Definitions.
(A) The terms
theoretical gains and losses
mean the gain and loss in the value of individual option series, the value of underlying instruments, related instruments, and qualified stock baskets within that option's class, at 10 equidistant intervals (valuation points) ranging from an assumed movement (both up and down) in the current market value of the underlying instrument equal to the percentage corresponding to the deductions otherwise required under § 240.15c3-1 for the underlying instrument (see paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section). Theoretical gains and losses shall be calculated using a theoretical options pricing model that satisfies the criteria set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(B) The term
theoretical options pricing model
means any mathematical model, other than a security-based swap dealer's proprietary model, the
use of which has been approved by the Commission. Any such model shall calculate theoretical gains and losses as described in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) of this section for all series and issues of equity, index and foreign currency options and related instruments, and shall be made available equally and on the same terms to all security-based swap dealers. Its procedures shall include the arrangement of the vendor to supply accurate and timely data to each security-based swap dealer with respect to its services, and the fees for distribution of the services. The data provided to security-based swap dealers shall also contain the minimum requirements set forth in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv)(C) of this section and the product group offsets set forth in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv)(B) of this section. At a minimum, the model shall consider the following factors in pricing the option:
(
1
) The current spot price of the underlying asset;
(
2
) The exercise price of the option;
(
3
) The remaining time until the option's expiration;
(
4
) The volatility of the underlying asset;
(
5
) Any cash flows associated with ownership of the underlying asset that can reasonably be expected to occur during the remaining life of the option; and
(
6
) The current term structure of interest rates.
(C) The term
major market foreign currency
means the currency of a sovereign nation for which there is a substantial inter-bank forward currency market.
(D) The term
qualified stock basket
means a set or basket of stock positions which represents no less than 50 percent of the capitalization for a high-capitalization or non-high-capitalization diversified market index, or, in the case of a narrow-based index, no less than 95 percent of the capitalization for such narrow-based index.
(ii) With respect to positions involving listed options in its proprietary or other account, the security-based swap dealer shall group long and short positions into the following portfolio types:
(A) Equity options on the same underlying instrument and positions in that underlying instrument;
(B) Options on the same major market foreign currency, positions in that major market foreign currency, and related instruments within those options' classes;
(C) High-capitalization diversified market index options, related instruments within the option's class, and qualified stock baskets in the same index;
(D) Non-high-capitalization diversified index options, related instruments within the index option's class, and qualified stock baskets in the same index; and
(E) Narrow-based index options, related instruments within the index option's class, and qualified stock baskets in the same index.
(iii) Before making the computation, each security-based swap dealer shall obtain the theoretical gains and losses for each option series and for the related and underlying instruments within those options' class in the proprietary or other accounts of that security-based swap dealer. For each option series, the theoretical options pricing model shall calculate theoretical prices at 10 equidistant valuation points within a range consisting of an increase or a decrease of the following percentages of the daily market price of the underlying instrument:
(A) +(−) 15 percent for equity securities with a ready market, narrow-based indexes, and non-high-capitalization diversified indexes;
(B) +(−) 6 percent for major market foreign currencies;
(C) +(−) 20 percent for all other currencies; and
(D) +(−)10 percent for high-capitalization diversified indexes.
(iv)(A) The security-based swap dealer shall multiply the corresponding theoretical gains and losses at each of the 10 equidistant valuation points by the number of positions held in a particular option series, the related instruments and qualified stock baskets within the option's class, and the positions in the same underlying instrument.
(B) In determining the aggregate profit or loss for each portfolio type, the security-based swap dealer will be allowed the following offsets in the following order, provided, that in the case
of qualified stock baskets, the security-based swap dealer may elect to net individual stocks between qualified stock baskets and take the appropriate deduction on the remaining, if any, securities:
(
1
) First, a security-based swap dealer is allowed the following offsets within an option's class:
(
i
) Between options on the same underlying instrument, positions covering the same underlying instrument, and related instruments within the option's class, 100 percent of a position's gain shall offset another position's loss at the same valuation point;
(
ii
) Between index options, related instruments within the option's class, and qualified stock baskets on the same index, 95 percent, or such other amount as designated by the Commission, of gains shall offset losses at the same valuation point;
(
2
) Second, a security-based swap dealer is allowed the following offsets within an index product group:
(
i
) Among positions involving different high-capitalization diversified index option classes within the same product group, 90 percent of the gain in a high-capitalization diversified market index option, related instruments, and qualified stock baskets within that index option's class shall offset the loss at the same valuation point in a different high-capitalization diversified market index option, related instruments, and qualified stock baskets within that index option's class;
(
ii
) Among positions involving different non-high-capitalization diversified index option classes within the same product group, 75 percent of the gain in a non-high-capitalization diversified market index option, related instruments, and qualified stock baskets within that index option's class shall offset the loss at the same valuation point in another non-high-capitalization diversified market index option, related instruments, and qualified stock baskets within that index option's class or product group;
(
iii
) Among positions involving different narrow-based index option classes within the same product group, 90 percent of the gain in a narrow-based market index option, related instruments, and qualified stock baskets within that index option's class shall offset the loss at the same valuation point in another narrow-based market index option, related instruments, and qualified stock baskets within that index option's class or product group;
(
iv
) No qualified stock basket should offset another qualified stock basket; and
(
3
) Third, a security-based swap dealer is allowed the following offsets between product groups: Among positions involving different diversified index product groups within the same market group, 50 percent of the gain in a diversified market index option, a related instrument, or a qualified stock basket within that index option's product group shall offset the loss at the same valuation point in another product group;
(C) For each portfolio type, the total deduction shall be the larger of:
(
1
) The amount for any of the 10 equidistant valuation points representing the largest theoretical loss after applying the offsets provided in paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(B) if this section; or
(
2
) A minimum charge equal to 25 percent times the multiplier for each equity and index option contract and each related instrument within the option's class or product group, or $25 for each option on a major market foreign currency with the minimum charge for futures contracts and options on futures contracts adjusted for contract size differentials, not to exceed market value in the case of long positions in options and options on futures contracts; plus
(
3
) In the case of portfolio types involving index options and related instruments offset by a qualified stock basket, there will be a minimum charge of 5 percent of the market value of the qualified stock basket for high-capitalization diversified and narrow-based indexes;
(
4
) In the case of portfolio types involving index options and related instruments offset by a qualified stock basket, there will be a minimum charge of 7
1/2
percent of the market value of the qualified stock basket for non-high-capitalization diversified indexes; and
(
5
) In the case of portfolio types involving security futures and equity options on the same underlying instrument and positions in that underlying instrument, there will be a minimum charge of 25 percent times the multiplier for each security-future and equity option.
[84 FR 44061, Aug. 22, 2019]
§ 240.18a-1b
Adjustments to net worth for certain commodities transactions.
(a) Every registered security-based swap dealer in computing net capital pursuant to § 240.18a-1 shall comply with the following:
(1) Where a security-based swap dealer has an asset or liability which is treated or defined in paragraph (c) of § 240.18a-1, the inclusion or exclusion of all or part of such asset or liability for net capital shall be in accordance with § 240.18a-1, except as specifically provided otherwise in this section. Where a commodity related asset or liability, including a swap-related asset or liability, is specifically treated or defined in 17 CFR 1.17 and is not generally or specifically treated or defined in § 240.18a-1 or this section, the inclusion or exclusion of all or part of such asset or liability for net capital shall be in accordance with 17 CFR 1.17.
(2) In computing net capital as defined in § 240.18a-1(c)(1), the net worth of a security-based swap dealer shall be adjusted as follows with respect to commodity-related transactions:
(i)(A) Unrealized profits shall be added and unrealized losses shall be deducted in the commodities accounts of the security-based swap dealer, including unrealized profits and losses on fixed price commitments and forward contracts; and
(B) The value attributed to any commodity option which is not traded on a contract market shall be the difference between the option's strike price and the market value for the physical or futures contract which is the subject of the option. In the case of a long call commodity option, if the market value for the physical or futures contract which is the subject of the option is less than the strike price of the option, it shall be given no value. In the case of a long put commodity option, if the market value for the physical commodity or futures contract which is the subject of the option is more than the striking price of the option, it shall be given no value.
(ii) Deduct any unsecured commodity futures or option account containing a ledger balance and open trades, the combination of which liquidates to a deficit or containing a debit ledger balance only:
Provided, however,
Deficits or debit ledger balances in unsecured customers', non-customers' and proprietary accounts, which are the subject of calls for margin or other required deposits need not be deducted until the close of business on the business day following the date on which such deficit or debit ledger balance originated;
(iii) Deduct all unsecured receivables, advances and loans except for:
(A) Management fees receivable from commodity pools outstanding no longer than thirty (30) days from the date they are due;
(B) Receivables from foreign clearing organizations;
(C) Receivables from registered futures commission merchants or brokers, resulting from cleared swap transactions or, commodity futures or option transactions, except those specifically excluded under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.
(iv) Deduct all inventories (including work in process, finished goods, raw materials and inventories held for resale) except for readily marketable spot commodities; or spot commodities which adequately collateralize indebtedness under 17 CFR 1.17(c)(7);
(v) Guarantee deposits with commodities clearing organizations are not required to be deducted from net worth;
(vi) Stock in commodities clearing organizations to the extent of its margin value is not required to be deducted from net worth;
(vii) Deduct from net worth the amount by which any advances paid by the security-based swap dealer on cash commodity contracts and used in computing net capital exceeds 95 percent of the market value of the commodities covered by such contracts.
(viii) Do not include equity in the commodity accounts of partners in net worth.
(ix) In the case of all inventory, fixed price commitments and forward contracts, except for inventory and forward contracts in the inter-bank market in those foreign currencies which are purchased or sold for further delivery on or subject to the rules of a contract market and covered by an open futures contract for which there will be no charge, deduct the applicable percentage of the net position specified below:
(A) Inventory which is currently registered as deliverable on a contract market and covered by an open futures contract or by a commodity option on a physical—No charge.
(B) Inventory which is covered by an open futures contract or commodity option—5 percent of the market value.
(C) Inventory which is not covered—20 percent of the market value.
(D) Fixed price commitments (open purchases and sales) and forward contracts which are covered by an open futures contract or commodity option—10 percent of the market value.
(E) Fixed price commitments (open purchases and sales) and forward contracts which are not covered by an open futures contract or commodity option—20 percent of the market value.
(x) Deduct for undermargined customer commodity futures accounts the amount of funds required in each such account to meet maintenance margin requirements of the applicable board of trade or, if there are no such maintenance margin requirements, clearing organization margin requirements applicable to such positions, after application of calls for margin, or other required deposits which are outstanding three business days or less. If there are no such maintenance margin requirements or clearing organization margin requirements on such accounts, then deduct the amount of funds required to provide margin equal to the amount necessary after application of calls for margin, or other required deposits outstanding three days or less to restore original margin when the original margin has been depleted by 50 percent or more.
Provided,
To the extent a deficit is deducted from net worth in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, such amount shall not also be deducted under this paragraph (a)(2)(x). In the event that an owner of a customer account has deposited an asset other than cash to margin, guarantee or secure his account, the value attributable to such asset for purposes of this paragraph shall be the lesser of the value attributable to such asset pursuant to the margin rules of the applicable board of trade, or the market value of such asset after application of the percentage deductions specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ix) of this section or, where appropriate, specified in § 240.18a-1(c)(1)(iv), (vi), or (vii) of this part;
(xi) Deduct for undermargined non-customer and omnibus commodity futures accounts the amount of funds required in each such account to meet maintenance margin requirements of the applicable board of trade or, if there are no such maintenance margin requirements, clearing organization margin requirements applicable to such positions, after application of calls for margin, or other required deposits which are outstanding two business days or less. If there are no such maintenance margin requirements or clearing organization margin requirements, then deduct the amount of funds required to provide margin equal to the amount necessary after application of calls for margin, or other required deposits outstanding two days or less to restore original margin when the original margin has been depleted by 50 percent or more.
Provided,
To the extent a deficit is deducted from net worth in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section such amount shall not also be deducted under this paragraph (a)(2)(xi). In the event that an owner of a non-customer or omnibus account has deposited an asset other than cash to margin, guarantee or secure the account, the value attributable to such asset for purposes of this paragraph shall be the lesser of the value attributable to such asset pursuant to the margin rules of the applicable board of trade, or the market value of such asset after application of the percentage deductions specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ix) of this section or, where appropriate, specified in § 240.18a-1(c)(1)(iv), (vi), or (vii) of this part;
(xii) In the case of open futures contracts and granted (sold) commodity options held in proprietary accounts carried by the security-based swap dealer which are not covered by a position held by the security-based swap dealer or which are not the result of a “changer trade” made in accordance with the rules of a contract market, deduct:
(A) For a security-based swap dealer which is a clearing member of a contract market for the positions on such contract market cleared by such member, the applicable margin requirement of the applicable clearing organization;
(B) For a security-based swap dealer which is a member of a self-regulatory organization, 150 percent of the applicable maintenance margin requirement of the applicable board of trade or clearing organization, whichever is greater; or
(C) For all other security-based swap dealers, 200 percent of the applicable maintenance margin requirement of the applicable board of trade or clearing organization, whichever is greater; or
(D) For open contracts or granted (sold) commodity options for which there are no applicable maintenance margin requirements, 200 percent of the applicable initial margin requirement;
Provided,
the equity in any such proprietary account shall reduce the deduction required by this paragraph (a)(2)(xii) if such equity is not otherwise includable in net capital.
(xiii) In the case of a security-based swap dealer which is a purchaser of a commodity option which is traded on a contract market, the deduction shall be the same safety factor as if the security-based swap dealer were the grantor of such option in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(xii) of this section, but in no event shall the safety factor be greater than the market value attributed to such option.
(xiv) In the case of a security-based swap dealer which is a purchaser of a commodity option not traded on a contract market which has value and such value is used to increase net capital, the deduction is ten percent of the market value of the physical or futures contract which is the subject of such option but in no event more than the value attributed to such option.
(xv) A loan or advance or any other form of receivable shall not be considered “secured” for the purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section unless the following conditions exist:
(A) The receivable is secured by readily marketable collateral which is otherwise unencumbered and which can be readily converted into cash:
Provided, however,
That the receivable will be considered secured only to the extent of the market value of such collateral after application of the percentage deductions specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ix) of this section; and
(B)(
1
) The readily marketable collateral is in the possession or control of the security-based swap dealer; or
(
2
) The security-based swap dealer has a legally enforceable, written security agreement, signed by the debtor, and has a perfected security interest in the readily marketable collateral within the meaning of the laws of the State in which the readily marketable collateral is located.
(xvi) The term
cover
for purposes of this section shall mean cover as defined in 17 CFR 1.17(j).
(xvii) The term
customer
for purposes of this section shall mean customer as defined in 17 CFR 1.17(b)(2). The term
non-customer
for purposes of this section shall mean non-customer as defined in 17 CFR 1.17(b)(4).
(b) Every registered security-based swap dealer in computing net capital pursuant to § 240.18a-1 shall comply with the following:
(1)
Cleared swaps.
In the case of a cleared swap held in a proprietary account of the security-based swap dealer, deducting the amount of the applicable margin requirement of the derivatives clearing organization or, if the swap references an equity security index, the security-based swap dealer may take a deduction using the method specified in § 240.18a-1a.
(2)
Non-cleared swaps
—(i)
Credit default swaps referencing broad-based security indices.
In the case of a non-cleared credit default swap for which the deductions in § 240.18a-1(e) do not apply:
(A)
Short positions (selling protection).
In the case of a non-cleared swap that
is a short credit default swap referencing a broad-based security index, deducting the percentage of the notional amount based upon the current basis point spread of the credit default swap and the maturity of the credit default swap in accordance with table 1 to § 240.18a-1b(b)(2)(i)(A):
Table 1 to § 240.18
a
-1
b
(
b
)(2)(
i
)(A)
Length of time to maturity of credit
default swap contract
Basis point spread
100 or less
(%)
101-300
(%)
301-400
(%)
401-500
(%)
501-699
(%)
700 or more
(%)
Less than 12 months
0.67
1.33
3.33
5.00
6.67
10.00
12 months but less than 24 months
1.00
2.33
5.00
6.67
8.33
11.67
24 months but less than 36 months
1.33
3.33
6.67
8.33
10.00
13.33
36 months but less than 48 months
2.00
4.00
8.33
10.00
11.67
15.00
48 months but less than 60 months
2.67
4.67
10.00
11.67
13.33
16.67
60 months but less than 72 months
3.67
5.67
11.67
13.33
15.00
18.33
72 months but less than 84 months
4.67
6.67
13.33
15.00
16.67
20.00
84 months but less than 120 months
5.67
10.00
15.00
16.67
18.33
26.67
120 months and longer
6.67
13.33
16.67
18.33
20.00
33.33
(B)
Long positions (purchasing protection).
In the case of a non-cleared swap that is a long credit default swap referencing a broad-based security index, deducting 50 percent of the deduction that would be required by paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section if the non-cleared swap was a short credit default swap, each such deduction not to exceed the current market value of the long position.
(C)
Long and short credit default swaps.
In the case of non-cleared swaps that are long and short credit default swaps referencing the same broad-based security index, have the same credit events which would trigger payment by the seller of protection, have the same basket of obligations which would determine the amount of payment by the seller of protection upon the occurrence of a credit event, that are in the same or adjacent spread category, and that are in the same or adjacent maturity category and have a maturity date within three months of the other maturity category, deducting the percentage of the notional amount specified in the higher maturity category under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section on the excess of the long or short position.
(D)
Long basket of obligors and long credit default swap.
In the case of a non-cleared swap that is a long credit default swap referencing a broad-based security index and the security-based swap dealer is long a basket of debt securities comprising all of the components of the security index, deducting 50 percent of the amount specified in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) for the component securities, provided the security-based swap dealer can deliver the component securities to satisfy the obligation of the security-based swap dealer on the credit default swap.
(E)
Short basket of obligors and short credit default swap.
In the case of a non-cleared swap that is a short credit default swap referencing a broad-based security index and the security-based swap dealer is short a basket of debt securities comprising all of the components of the security index, deducting the amount specified in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi) for the component securities.
(ii)
All other swaps.
(A) In the case of any non-cleared swap that is not a credit default swap for which the deductions in § 240.18a-1(e) do not apply, deducting the amount calculated by multiplying the notional value of the swap by the percentage specified in:
(
1
) Section 240.15c3-1 applicable to the reference asset if § 240.15c3-1 specifies a percentage deduction for the type of asset;
(
2
) 17 CFR 1.17 applicable to the reference asset if 17 CFR 1.17 specifies a percentage deduction for the type of asset and § 240.15c3-1 does not specify a percentage deduction for the type of asset; or
(
3
) In the case of a non-cleared interest rate swap, § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(A) based on the maturity of the swap, provided that the percentage deduction must be no less than one eighth of 1 percent of the amount of a long position that is netted against a short position in the case of a non-cleared swap with a maturity of three months or more.
(B) A security-based swap dealer may reduce the deduction under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section by an amount equal to any reduction recognized for a comparable long or short position in the reference asset or interest rate under 17 CFR 1.17 or § 240.15c3-1.
[84 FR 44063, Aug. 22, 2019]
§ 240.18a-1c
Consolidated Computations of Net Capital for Certain Subsidiaries and Affiliates of Security-Based Swap Dealers.
Every security-based swap dealer in computing its net capital pursuant to § 240.18a-1 shall include in its computation all liabilities or obligations of a subsidiary or affiliate that the security-based swap dealer guarantees, endorses, or assumes either directly or indirectly.
[84 FR 44065, Aug. 22, 2019]
§ 240.18a-1d
Satisfactory Subordinated Loan Agreements.
(a)
Introduction
—(1)
Minimum requirements.
This section sets forth minimum and non-exclusive requirements for satisfactory subordinated loan agreements. The Commission may require or the security-based swap dealer may include such other provisions as deemed necessary or appropriate to the extent such provisions do not cause the subordinated loan agreement to fail to meet the minimum requirements of this section.
(2)
Certain definitions.
For purposes of § 240.18a-1 and this section:
(i) The term “
subordinated loan agreement”
shall mean the agreement or agreements evidencing or governing a subordinated borrowing of cash.
(ii) The term “
Payment Obligation”
shall mean the obligation of a security-based swap dealer to repay cash loaned to the security-based swap dealer pursuant to a subordinated loan agreement and “Payment” shall mean the performance by a security-based swap dealer of a Payment Obligation.
(iii) The term “
lender”
shall mean the person who lends cash to a security-based swap dealer pursuant to a subordinated loan agreement.
(b)
Minimum requirements for subordinated loan agreements
—(1)
Subordinated loan agreement.
Subject to paragraph (a) of this section, a subordinated loan agreement shall mean a written agreement between the security-based swap dealer and the lender, which has a minimum term of one year, and is a valid and binding obligation enforceable in accordance with its terms (subject as to enforcement to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws) against the security-based swap dealer and the lender and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
(2)
Specific amount.
All subordinated loan agreements shall be for a specific dollar amount which shall not be reduced for the duration of the agreement except by installments as specifically provided for therein and except as otherwise provided in this section.
(3)
Effective subordination.
The subordinated loan agreement shall effectively subordinate any right of the lender to receive any Payment with respect thereto, together with accrued interest or compensation, to the prior payment or provision for payment in full of all claims of all present and future creditors of the security-based swap dealer arising out of any matter occurring prior to the date on which the related Payment Obligation matures consistent with the provisions of §§ 240.18a-1 and 240.18a-1d, except for claims which are the subject of subordinated loan agreements that rank on the same priority as or junior to the claim of the lender under such subordinated loan agreements.
(4)
Proceeds of subordinated loan agreements.
The subordinated loan agreement shall provide that the cash proceeds thereof shall be used and dealt
with by the security-based swap dealer as part of its capital and shall be subject to the risks of the business.
(5)
Certain rights of the security-based swap dealer.
The subordinated loan agreement shall provide that the security-based swap dealer shall have the right to deposit any cash proceeds of a subordinated loan agreement in an account or accounts in its own name in any bank or trust company.
(6)
Permissive prepayments.
A security-based swap dealer at its option but not at the option of the lender may, if the subordinated loan agreement so provides, make a Payment of all or any portion of the Payment Obligation thereunder prior to the scheduled maturity date of such Payment Obligation (hereinafter referred to as a “Prepayment”), but in no event may any Prepayment be made before the expiration of one year from the date such subordinated loan agreement became effective. No Prepayment shall be made, if, after giving effect thereto (and to all Payments of Payment Obligations under any other subordinated loan agreements then outstanding the maturity or accelerated maturities of which are scheduled to fall due within six months after the date such Prepayment is to occur pursuant to this provision or on or prior to the date on which the Payment Obligation in respect of such Prepayment is scheduled to mature disregarding this provision, whichever date is earlier) without reference to any projected profit or loss of the security-based swap dealer, either its net capital would fall below 120 percent of its minimum requirement under § 240.18a-1, or, if the security-based swap dealer is approved to calculate net capital under § 240.18a-1(d), its tentative net capital would fall to an amount below 120 percent of the minimum requirement. Notwithstanding the above, no Prepayment shall occur without the prior written approval of the Commission.
(7)
Suspended repayment.
The Payment Obligation of the security-based swap dealer in respect of any subordinated loan agreement shall be suspended and shall not mature if, after giving effect to Payment of such Payment Obligation (and to all Payments of Payment Obligations of such security-based swap dealer under any other subordinated loan agreement(s) then outstanding that are scheduled to mature on or before such Payment Obligation) either its net capital would fall below 120 percent of its minimum requirement under § 240.18a-1, or, if the security-based swap dealer is approved to calculate net capital under § 240.18a-1(d), its tentative net capital would fall to an amount below 120 percent of the minimum requirement. The subordinated loan agreement may provide that if the Payment Obligation of the security-based swap dealer thereunder does not mature and is suspended as a result of the requirement of this paragraph (b)(7) for a period of not less than six months, the security-based swap dealer shall thereupon commence the rapid and orderly liquidation of its business, but the right of the lender to receive Payment, together with accrued interest or compensation, shall remain subordinate as required by the provisions of §§ 240.18a-1 and 240.18a-1d.
(8)
Accelerated maturity—obligation to repay to remain subordinate.
(i) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(7) of this section, a subordinated loan agreement may provide that the lender may, upon prior written notice to the security-based swap dealer and the Commission given not earlier than six months after the effective date of such subordinated loan agreement, accelerate the date on which the Payment Obligation of the security-based swap dealer, together with accrued interest or compensation, is scheduled to mature to a date not earlier than six months after the giving of such notice, but the right of the lender to receive Payment, together with accrued interest or compensation, shall remain subordinate as required by the provisions of §§ 240.18a-1 and 240.18a-1d.
(ii) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b)(7) of this section, the Payment Obligation of the security-based swap dealer with respect to a subordinated loan agreement, together with accrued interest and compensation, shall mature in the event of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization whether or not pursuant to the bankruptcy laws, or any other marshalling of the assets
and liabilities of the security-based swap dealer but the right of the lender to receive Payment, together with accrued interest or compensation, shall remain subordinate as required by the provisions of §§ 240.18a-1 and 240.18a-1d.
(9)
Accelerated maturity of subordinated loan agreements on event of default and event of acceleration—obligation to repay to remain subordinate.
(i) A subordinated loan agreement may provide that the lender may, upon prior written notice to the security-based swap dealer and the Commission of the occurrence of any Event of Acceleration (as hereinafter defined) given no sooner than six months after the effective date of such subordinated loan agreement, accelerate the date on which the Payment Obligation of the security-based swap dealer, together with accrued interest or compensation, is scheduled to mature, to the last business day of a calendar month which is not less than six months after notice of acceleration is received by the security-based swap dealer and the Commission. Any subordinated loan agreement containing such Events of Acceleration may also provide, that if upon such accelerated maturity date the Payment Obligation of the security-based swap dealer is suspended as required by paragraph (b)(7) of this section and liquidation of the security-based swap dealer has not commenced on or prior to such accelerated maturity date, then notwithstanding paragraph (b)(7) the Payment Obligation of the security-based swap dealer with respect to such subordinated loan agreement shall mature on the day immediately following such accelerated maturity date and in any such event the Payment Obligations of the security-based swap dealer with respect to all other subordinated loan agreements then outstanding shall also mature at the same time but the rights of the respective lenders to receive Payment, together with accrued interest or compensation, shall remain subordinate as required by the provisions of this section. Events of Acceleration which may be included in a subordinated loan agreement complying with this paragraph (b)(9) shall be limited to:
(A) Failure to pay interest or any installment of principal on a subordinated loan agreement as scheduled;
(B) Failure to pay when due other money obligations of a specified material amount;
(C) Discovery that any material, specified representation or warranty of the security-based swap dealer which is included in the subordinated loan agreement and on which the subordinated loan agreement was based or continued was inaccurate in a material respect at the time made;
(D) Any specified and clearly measurable event which is included in the subordinated loan agreement and which the lender and the security-based swap dealer agree:
(
1
) Is a significant indication that the financial position of the security-based swap dealer has changed materially and adversely from agreed upon specified norms; or
(
2
